ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the questions which will be discussed today are as follows: The Question No 785/19-5-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridonas - Adonni Georgiadis. The question under number 788/21-5-2021 will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panayotopoulos. The question under number 794-24-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Nikolaos Papathanases. The Questions Nos 784/18-5-2021, 787/19-5-2021, 797/24/2021 and 800/24/25-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr.Koskozamanis. The question under number 791/23-2021 and the reference to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey. The question under number 789/21-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Question No 78-17-2021, 783/18-5-2021 and 786/19-5-2021 topical questions and Question No 5052-12-2021 according to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The Question No 793/24-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aygeakis. Finally, the Question No 801/24-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Konstantinos Katsafandos. First, the third under number 783/18-5-2021 will be discussed.The third question of the first cycle of the Members of the Elias Movement, Mr.Michalis Katrin, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The openness with forest maps poses serious risks to the inhabitants of Elias". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, my question certainly focuses on the Elias Prefecture, where I am elected, but you know that it is now uncontrolled throughout the country. Nevertheless, in Elias we have a very serious problem with the issue of the suspension of forest maps. Firstly, they have not been able to object to thousands of citizens - it is one of the postings that took place in a previous period - with a visible risk of losing their property. There are nearly ten thousand objections to all three forests, since for over a year and a half the committees have not been meeting for reasons unexplained. While the law has changed, almost since July 2019, every process has been frozen. No decisions have been taken so far by the opposition committees which have been seized for over a year and a half, and as a result the issue has been resolved tariffly so that the owners are not at present able to use their property. A similar problem arises because maps have not been corrected in areas where the resurrected person has been removed following a recommendation - a decision by the forestry service. Additional problems are the freezing of the redempted areas of IA after the decision of the Council of State. Only in the Tower Forestry we have four and a half thousand cases, while for forested fields contracts are requested before 2004 and not before the suspension in 2017. You understand how difficult this is. This is not acceptable, and in any other notarial act this is accepted, and a certificate from the building service is required that it does not constitute a public area, something extremely bureaucratic and time-consuming. It is also very important that there has been strong insecurity among farmers and farmers despite the assurances to the contrary about the possibility of recovering the subsidies granted for farmed areas that are still pending, especially after the Council of State. Two questions: First, will you reinstate the possibility of objecting to the people of Elijah so that they do not run the risk of losing their land and will you speed up this process by setting up at least two committees per forest office? Secondly, what are you going to do to ensure that farmers and farmers do not have to repay subsidies that they have received if and since the areas that they have finally declared are not justified in the opposition procedure? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, it is very reasonable to ask questions. Surely they apply throughout the country, because after the forest maps were put on the surface for the first time and everywhere, all the timeless loose ends and all the wounds of the past came to the surface with regard to areas and areas located in public or private forest land, forest land. You referred to some of the maps that you were elected to were posted before Law 4685. The proceedings had been followed since 2017, 2018 of suspension and of objections. In fact, the information I have - because it is a long time ago - was given as a time for two hundred and fifty-five days to be able to submit their objections, which were indeed many. I have heard the number you are saying and that makes us even more careful. I will answer the next questions immediately. This time was therefore reasonable for the objections raised at the time on the maps that were posted and not changed, because if there are changes, then the issue is different in its handling. As far as the committees and the examinations are concerned, I would like to say that the objections which have been discussed in the relevant committees have indeed not been made public. From the information I have received is that the interested parties have been informed of the decisions, but also publicity and posting, as you have rightly said, are on the loose end and this must also be completed. That's an answer. As far as the remaining objections are concerned, the ten thousand outstanding, I would like to say that three-member committees made up of a lawyer, a lawyer, a engineer and a forestist will have been set up by the end of the month. The first shall be representatives of the bodies, the latter shall be a public representative to discuss and rule on the outstanding objections. Where there are many, the number of loose ends will also determine the number of committees. If need be, it won't be just one. It can also be two, it can be three per regional section depending on the number outstanding with regard to the objections. With regard to the issue you mentioned on forest land extraction, I will be very brief, Madam President, to fill in my dentext because I had the honour as in 2014 Deputy Minister of the Environment for the first time to bring the provision concerning the regulation of land for agricultural cultivation only, I will say that it went on afterwards and I am glad that, as you said, the Council of State raised issues of unconstitutionality, as you said. There is a need for regulation on this, and in any case there will be no loss of subsidy rights - aid for farmers and farmers. Madam President, I shall continue in my second language for the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the questions were specific. We agree on too many of the findings. The point is, I fear, that you have not specifically answered the questions I have put to you. Firstly, you will probably not give, if I correctly interpret your position, a new possibility to raise objections to the inhabitants of Elias, a region which was one of the first pan-Hellenic regions where forest maps were posted. There was not enough information, and I say this because you brought in an amendment 15 days ago, where a six-month extension is given in the case of forest maps to be posted in 2021. I also think it fair and reasonable, in order to copy your characterisation, to give again the possibility of citizens who have not been informed for some reason. There are thousands of cases, Mr Minister, in Elias and he will lose his property too many people unjustly - because there was no good information campaign - if you do not give the opportunity again. You should review this together with the other areas that are now being posted and give another chance to raise objections. Now for the committees per forest office: depending on the objections you will encounter, I think that in Elijah at least two per forest office should exist, because there are ten thousand objections. Of course the services, Mr Minister, are subordinated to forestists and foresters, and I say this because an extension is given with the amendment and you say that in two months' time the obvious errors will have been corrected, but you know very well that this is not going to happen as long as forest services are secured. Now for farmers' subsidies: you and the Minister for Rural Development are saying that they will not be in danger, but you are not telling us specifically what you will do to ensure that those objections are not justified will not be called upon to return farmers and farmers, since the areas will now be characterized as forests and not farmers. In order to correct the objections you do not raise, I think they are really unprecedented. There are huge problems for people who are either trying to expand or to make certain constructions with their properties, and they cannot go because they have to get assurances, an incredible bureaucracy. There are proposals that have been made, as well as that areas which have always been used for agricultural use, on either side of rivers - to us they are in Alfios - or large torrents, because they have never been forest land. Areas situated on either side of a non-tariff rural area should be excluded. You have extended for the outdated fields until 2022 for the legalisation of livestock facilities and until 2023 for those who have temporary concessions. The use of property titles should therefore also be included, as I have said before being applied to any notary act. The Greek State does not have the right to extensions that are characterised as a forested field, therefore the reforestation should be automatically withdrawn or the citizen compensated if he wishes to remain in forest form. Finally, for the outdated areas, areas placed in photographs of 1960 in agricultural form and cultivated to date should be directly corrected on the map. So there are some proposals that will also facilitate the process and speed it up and help people really to make use of their assets. But, Minister - and this is my last sentence - you must, together with all these facilities, give the legislative character - firstly - the possibility of objecting and, secondly, to prioritise the issues relating to farmers and farmers and not to jeopardise them with a refund. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the questions are a lot and some of them need numbers that are prepared precisely so that there are no problems like what you have referred to. I am referring first of all to subsidies and aid for both farmers and farmers. For whatever it takes to regulate and not cause any problem with them, the government has committed itself to bringing in provisions to cover the gap. You know that there is, and there is still no decision by the Council of State concerning the legality and procedure for the suspension of forest maps. This is a crucial issue and a crucial decision that we expect to take into account the results of the crisis of the Council of State. So as soon as there is a picture of the questions and the unfinished things you have mentioned, we have to take a position and clarify the scenery. I said from the outset and will repeat once again that many of the forest maps have been posted. I would like to say to you that since, beyond Parliament, my profession is a political engineer and I know of the market, and I also know the peculiarities concerning the issues we are discussing, and before posting I was aware of the peculiarities, it was only through the post that everyone was able to meet together and, I repeat, to say - unfinished over time that the requirement now is immediately fair and correct to close all these wounds like those mentioned. The aim is for all interested parties to be able to submit the objections. There are obvious errors, you have also mentioned, and these should be corrected. For example, there are resurrected lands that comprised within them and rural lands. These should have already been corrected without the citizen having to submit a request. So because there are errors in need of correction, that is why the postponement of the objections after the suspension of the forest maps. As far as Elias is concerned, all the peculiarities will be taken into account, because at the end of the day we want to have exhausted every opportunity for the citizen to prove or testify to the evidence, but we too want all these wounds of the past to heal them in the best, fairest and most secure way. I mention the word safer. Because you're also a lawyer, you understand what I mean. To have legal certainty vis-à-vis the Council of State and for the time being to acquire property, because such arrangements will also be in place. So when this is mature - and I think it is coming, we are very close - there will also be definitive, concrete answers to your questions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Here is the sixth question, number 786/19-5-2021, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Theodorou Dricas, on the subject: “Crime! With what right does the government decide and authorize the crumbling of the tent and its interior of the historical and maintainable cultural room, the emblem for the city of Piraeus - "Hi-Life", to sell a company's clothes? Mr Nikolaos Tagaras will answer the question. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you and I, and all of us, know that parliamentary control, either by simple questions, either on the agenda or on the other levels of parliamentary control, is also being carried out to control the government and criticism, but also in order to solve problems. I can assure you that today's question I ask as a topical question about 'Hi-Lif' in Piraeus concerns me only with regard to the results that my own topical question will bring, but also with regard to the mobilisation of all of Piraeus, where in these days everyone is currently very concerned about this development. Minister, it's not your fault. Your predecessor, Mr. Economou, made an immunity. I use heavy expressions. Believe me that for the importance of Piraeus this development is mild expressions. So with regard to the title of my question: 'Crime! By what right does the government decide and authorize the crackdown of the scene and its internal and historical and maintainable cultural room, the emblematic for the city of Piraeus - "Hi-Life", to sell clothes for a company?', believe me, this is not a hard language. It is the least careful approach that the Piraeus and the Piraeus, not SYRIZA or I, could have. And I will substantiate that opinion. So today I will say the following. It is a preserved building in Korai Square, Karaiscu Street, and the cinema is maintained. The building was taken over in 1982 by Presidential Decree of Constantine Karamanlis and signed by Minister Antonis Tritsi, and since the proclamation of maintainers of old and historic cinemas from Melina Mercouri in 1986 was declared to be maintained and the "Hi-Lif". Here comes Mr. Economou in October 2020 to abolish, because a company wants to convert the use of the building - I will then tell you what the uses of the building were on the historical route - in a clothing store, from what we learn. And Mr Economou's decision does not take into account the fact that it is maintained. It gives the right to destroy the paws, which are intimate, Mr Minister, the facilities of the encircled room which is crafts, as well as to take away the exterior, who is handsome as well. I'm not talking about what historical uses he had. I will tell you in my first speech and thank you for your tolerance, Madam President. In 2000, the scholar of the history of the city and a worthy intellectual, Stephanos Milesis, caught that in 1901 Constantine Kavafis stayed for a short period in the "Grand Hotel", what evolved into "Aktai" - unfortunately, this does not exist - notes in his diary...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u12	I'm done. "With the train is ten minutes Piraeus, but the tram is a stop near the hotel and stops at Socrates Street. Yesterday we saw Giannopoulos on the tram. He took us and took us to the "Hi-Liff" Confectionary. He was in a pool. We drank soft drinks with him. What a beautiful house! The roads all lead to the sea.’
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u14	I'll tell you a lot on my second. But, Minister, I'm changing my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u16	I'm done, Madam President. I'm changing my question. I'm not asking what you're going to do in general. When will you abolish Mr. Economou's decision? There's no room. It is a unanimous decision of the Piraeus Municipal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would like to remind you that the time of the question is two minutes. There is a relative tolerance, ladies and gentlemen, but please do not go too far over time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, it is a historic building, linked to the struggles of a large party, such as the Communist Party of Greece. I want to tell you this, and I am actually going to the point, because I have not dealt with this matter in the past, but I have information and I will now present it for everything that has evolved. First of all, the building was declared to be kept, as you mentioned, in 1982 and is still maintained to date. What has changed the decision of Mr. Economou is the use of the building, which was compatible with the uses of the 1987 Decree and is compatible with the Presidential Decree 59/2018, and concerns a town centre, because it is located in the centre of Piraeus. It is therefore legitimate to change the use on the building, taking into account the characteristics as being kept and, if the conditions for interventions which do not affect its character are met. The first licence was issued in 1924 and is number 163. I mention it because I am reading in your report about the Ministry of Culture. So it hasn't been a hundred years since. In 1985 the former Papacosta Mansion was owned by the Communist Party of Greece. You know them better than I do. But I also have the information for briefing this House. In 2005, the film "Hi-Life", as you mentioned, stops its operation and the space is turned into a cultural area called "Passport" and "Kremlinos". The multi-country operation stopped in 2018. I do not know - and what I am telling you now is a sensitive issue and so far I do not have complete knowledge - who is the owner of today. I know who made the application at that time - the 'Simple Red' IKE one-off - to change the use of the retainer, who remains retained. In this process I have received knowledge and I would like to say that it has been forwarded by the Board of Architecture of Piraeus to the Ministry of the Environment the document on the changes. This is the first document on 20 May 2020. On 9 June the explanatory statement was sent from the Directorate-General for Urban Planning of the Ministry of the Environment to the Municipality of Piraeus. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, and I shall continue to do so. The municipality was informed as well and publicly posted to the municipality for consultation, as provided for in the procedure for publication and consultation, the document was sent that these procedures for the publication of the explanatory statement were completed on 22 July 2020 and came after the decision in September 2020 of my colleague, former Secretary of State for the Environment, Mr. Economou. By unanimous decision and by the Central Board of Architecture of the Ministry of the Environment is maintained - I say again - as a preserver, but the use is changing. It is compatible with the plan for the city of Piraeus and also with the overlying designs concerning the use. In the other parts, there is provision for repairs of facets and aids for the body carrying, the frame for safety reasons and a change of use from offices and others to malleables. These are first of all the elements I have collected and very outlined for the route that was followed about two years ago. But I shall continue in my second language, Madam President, so as not to delay you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u20	Minister, I am sorry for your answer. I understand that you have some reservations, but you are actually justifying the correctness of Mr Economou's decision. No, Minister. The ministerial decision of '86 defines uses as an extension of the presidential decree on the ground floor, intact with the exterior, the gallery, the square, the tent and all that. When Mr. Economou comes in now and tears them down, he gives permission to demolish all this, keeps the retainable? Minister, in order to declassify a place as a preserver, there is either a great public risk or a high public interest - the highest - or a mistake in matters. There's nothing wrong with that. Mr. Economou was illegal and almost admitted it, according to an information given by the Mayor of Piraeus himself, Mr. Moralis. Last week on the city council he said that "I called Mr. Economou and said..." So he informed the city council, I heard it through online connection, and I myself with my ears. Mr. Economou said to Mr. Moralis "I had no understanding of the importance of the site", because in fact the decision does not refer to "Hi-Life", only the address of the building is mentioned. So don't hide behind such processes. Put all your services on. I will submit to the minutes and the unanimous resolution of the municipal council and a study - published today - of the "Piraeus for All" municipality which has led the Professor of the Polytechnic, Mr. Nikos Belavila, for which they worked dozens of Piraeus and Piraeus in a few days, precisely because they are very interested in the subject, and have all the data and architectures and cultures. I will present these to the House of Greeks and to the use of your Ministry. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, Madam President, it is not possible to assess these buildings which constitute a vote on the city's historical identity when in this area planned at the beginning of the century and in this cinema, not only were important activities carried out, the National Conservatory with Manolis Kalomomiris, the Parentry of the Papakostas brothers with the teacher James Dratsis, when the Gestapo passed through this building, not to say about the Piraeus Court. In this room, the film and the cultural room were first screened in Greece in December of '29' he premiered in Broadway and immediately thereafter in "Hi-Life" the first film to be spoken. Only in the last few years with its evolution - he had taken the use of the cultural space more widely and not just of the cinema - there have been five hundred and thirty-four events in four years of music, literature, great names, from Mikroutsikos - I do not have the time to present all the elements - which have given great concerts historical and other manifestations of cultural content. Will this be abolished, Minister, to sell clothes? Finally! And you rely on what legality you referred to before? Is this the government's responsibility towards the history of this place and the characteristics of a city? We are being watched today - and I have finished, Madam President - at the moment, know the municipal authority and hundreds of citizens of Piraeus and cultural unions. All Piraeus is watching and awaiting the statement from you that Mr. Economou's illegal and disrespectful decision is being cancelled. The only alibi you have is to consult with the other staff, because I do not know how this decision was produced, and in any case within the week that you started to cancel this decision. There is no other solution, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Colleague, I'm not questioning the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u23	Yeah, but you're questioning her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u24	I don't question history.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u25	You're questioning her!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u26	May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u27	It's above all that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u28	Listen to me, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u30	I listened very carefully. Listen, if you want, me too. I'll be shorter than you. History is not questioned because it has been recorded and I referred to it a little earlier. But there's a reality that's evolving, Mr. President. Do you know how many keepers have been abandoned, dissolved and dangerously prepared, and have we grieved victims of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u31	This has not been abandoned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u32	Listen to me, if you want, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u33	He's not abandoned!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u35	I said before that history and culture are our responsibility to maintain it, but to maintain it. And it is maintained when it is maintained and when it has life in the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u36	But it was working! It was working, Minister! What do you answer me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u37	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u38	Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u39	I mentioned it until when it worked. But, Dritsa, I said something at the beginning, and I don't want to take it any further, because I don't have the whole information right now. I said who's the owner. Because, you know, the changes you're asking for...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u40	The owner has changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u41	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u42	The owner has changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u43	Listen to me, Mr. Dritsa. You guys are more certain than I am. I have some information that isn't exactly like that. But I say it in public: I am not absolute, but I have other information so far as we are concerned. It matters who is the owner, and it matters who asks for these changes. Because if I have a property that is kept and I transfer it without any commitments, and the new buyer comes in to find use that will allow him to function and maintain it, and we give him the approval to do so without any refusals and objections that have been made before, and we are coming back for two years to impose on him things that we have not imposed in the first place, you know, it creates problems not for that, but for all the other things that we want to maintain and keep. That's why I'm saying it's a very delicate matter. I said that I respect the history and all that you mentioned and we must keep it alive, but - because seasons change - that can keep it alive and work and make money available so that this story and culture can be tasted by you, all of us, but also by the next ones. With these remarks, I am not in a position to add more things at the moment, much more so that I do not have all knowledge and I do not have the suggestions. I stand by and refer to the route taken. There could have been all these objections during the two years. I heard them carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u44	Now the bulldozer's in. It wasn't known. The mayor didn't even know about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I referred to publicity before, and I have here the explanatory statement on what it included two years ago. I do not know what is going on today, and if there are permits that have been issued, because they are not in the service of ours, they are in the service of building the Municipality of Piraeus. But I'm telling you, we got this far, and when we take responsibility, we have to be careful. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about power. When we take responsibility and make decisions, then, these decisions must be timeless, stable, safe, careful and cannot change any moment. There are investors...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u46	Is that a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Comrade, please, we're not having a dialogue. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u48	They are investors who want to buy these buildings too, not to destroy them, but to make use of them, because now they are being destroyed that there is no money to be preserved. If we deprive legal certainty to the transferees, then do you know how many problems they will be going back against us, Mr. President? That's what I want for my part to add...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u49	Such buildings have been saved in Ermos. They've changed use...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u50	Minister, please continue with your position so that we can close the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u51	I shall conclude, Madam President, and apologise for the delay. Because it is a very delicate and serious issue, I have tried to be very careful, because it has specificities and it is a very sensitive issue, respecting the space, respecting the history, but at the same time respecting the continuity and safety of the space. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat that the time is specific. There is a relative tolerance, but there is never more than double the time. We continue with our first question with number 5052-12-2021 question of the circle of petitions - questions by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Dimitrios Haritis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Would you take into account the concerns of the people regarding the licensing of wind parks in the Rhodope Regional Unit?' The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the use of renewable energy is indeed a priority for us to tackle the climate crisis. But this priority cannot go against the protection of the natural environment, biodiversity and, above all, against people's health and life. What is currently happening in the Rhodope Regional Unit has rightly caused the concern of the people. Although the permitted capacity for wind parks in municipalities is close to being covered - 93% reached the municipality of Organi, 63% and 68% respectively in the municipalities of Kehros and Komotini - despite all the requests made to RAE for the construction of new wind parks are endless, Mr. Deputy Minister, In areas of particular natural beauty, such as the wider area of Ancient Maronea, which is full of antiquities, in the area of Iasmos above the Papakios Mountain with the monastic property. Minister, at the same time in the mountainous volume of the Municipality of Arrianes, with already a hundred and fifty wind turbines installed, are in a process of licensing new wind farms, a breath by the villages of Kechros, which will make people's lives alive. I am not even referring to the alteration of the natural environment and the effects on mountain and biological farming. That is why the local council of Kecharos unanimously expressed its opposition to you, if you wish. Also, Minister, serious objections have been raised by the license of a wind park in a plain area one kilometre of large settlements three and a half kilometres from the town of Komotini, a licence for which the Regional Council of East Macedonia and Thrace has unanimously taken a negative view. Minister, environmental Law 4685-2020 is the ones that triggered the explosion of demands to RAE. The suffocating time limits for opinions, ignoring essentially the opinion of local societies, opens the way to the Energy Regulatory Authority to share licensing attestations. While the outdated - not to say the obsolete - spatial plan for the RES 2008, which your own responsibility is delaying its review, cannot respond to the new data. So I ask you, Minister, will you take into account the intense and justified concerns of the Rhodopeians, placing brakes on the certification industry issued by the RAE? Will you consider the opposite position of local government and the negative opinion of the regional council where it exists? When will the review of the EIA spatial plan finally proceed and be completed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. We are all talking about reducing the environmental footprint from the productive model in terms of energy, and we all agree that renewable energy is the main production site, the alternative. There are definitely peculiarities throughout Greece. The spatial planning since 2008, you said it yourself, is under review. The delay is due to the conditions in which we spend a year due to exclusion and caging in order to allow public consultations to develop, but also to enable scholars to conclude, which is why there is a delay. But it is evolving by opening up society and space for discussions and consultation to complete. This is like a first horizontal observation. As far as the area mentioned is concerned, there are three categories depending on the size of the intervention in terms of environmental licensing. There is category A1 which is being discussed at the Department of Environmental Licensing at the Ministry of the Environment. It's not about her. It is category A2 and the two projects you mentioned, so it is the competent authority which deals with environmental licensing issues of the relevant decentralised administration, so that they can decide on the issues you mentioned. I am aware, therefore, that as far as the first on the Birds Hill, on the decision under way, there is a positive opinion on the implementation of the wind station in this position by the Regional Council. I'll tell you right away because I have them here. It concerns the company 'ES ENERGY Ltd', which refers to the Birds Hill and was posted in the electronic environmental register on 28 December 2020 with a positive opinion - again - from the Coordination and Inspection Directorate for Forestry of the decentralised administration of Macedonia - Thrace. I know that there is a sensitive area and there are areas of increased protection, as far as the main concern is concerned, which is why a specific ecological assessment has been drawn up. As I said, there are positive responses from the region. On the other hand, without wanting to delay time, I know that there is a unanimous negative answer and I will be on the way. For the next time, as far as the municipality is concerned, and more specifically in the Rhodope region of the forest - because it refers to two - I will tell you this. I'm sorry. Give me a minute, Madam President, to find my papers, because we have a lot today. I want to tell you about the first case, the one I mentioned about the Horse Worm. There are nineteen terms and conditions that the investor must comply with once the procedure has been completed. Among other things, it is proposed that wind turbines 3 and 4 be relocated to untreated areas in order not to settle within reforestations, which were carried out in order to create a protective cloak against the settlement and to take measures to address possible effects on ornithonide and for the breeding period, as well as on specific devices for the identification and prevention of avian influenza in wind turbines. As far as the wind park is concerned, I'll be placed in my denture. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u57	Minister, I have heard you - it is true - with caution. You said that there is the institutional framework, that the decentralised administration has laid down the terms and conditions on which it will go and said that about everything goes. Others, however, experience the mountainous tumor of Khros. I don't know if they live in fantasy or they see a bad dream from the reality that they experience over their heads. And I say this on account of knowledge, and it is worth visiting the area. In this way, Minister, you are administering renewable energy sources, which you rightly said that 'things can also help to tackle the climate crisis', you despise them in the consciousness of societies, ordinary citizens with what they are experiencing. I asked you to explain why, with Law 4685, with Fast track procedures, the interpretation of local societies is essentially not, with almost the time margins of almost most, Minister, the regional councils and the regional councils there are not making any progress and in the short term it is giving its opinions. Do you know what's actually going on? What RAE does is not just give assurances to those seeking permissions. In fact, you're making radars in a wild West regime. The interests of energy, strong resources, the recovery package that is the energy package, and they are all trying to take new forwards. They're pushing municipalities, regions to increase the capacity to bring them. We're talking about certain areas. And you know why this is all happening, Minister? Why have you been unduly delayed for twenty months to sign the contract to proceed with the review of spatial planning. Twenty months you held her in your hands. And I come to the very specifics, Mr Minister. I asked you to tell us about these wind parks in Kehros, where there is a negative opinion from the management body of the National Park of Dadia - Souflios. Will you take that into account? He has not yet delivered an opinion - or, if so, he will be the last - the Natural Environment and Biodiversity Management Directorate. I repeat that he has not yet delivered an opinion, Minister, and I have already submitted to you the concern and opposition expressed by local communities. Finally, may I ask you: will you consider the unanimous decision of the regional consultant on the wind park in the plains, Mr. Secretary, an wind park - mammoth? It's a hundred and seventy meters in height of wind turbines. Also, a hundred seventy meters is the diameter of the rotor. The first picture of our northern visitors, millions to enter our country from the entrance of Nymfaia, will be these huge sizes. To think it's ten times larger than the city's historic watch in the center. It's ten times higher. I repeat, Minister, that if you continue with the way you are dealing with management and licenses in wind parks, you detest them in the consciousness of the societies that we so need and we need to go to another era and deal with climate change and climate crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mr President, the review study is under way because you mentioned that it has not been signed. The review study is under way. And I mentioned what the delay was because the conditions we have passed lacked the possibility of public consultation and so that it could go ahead with the local societies you have mentioned. But at the moment the process is progressing quickly, the space has opened, and I think it will evolve in this way, so that we can quickly have an up-to-date study on the activities that we are talking about. I told you that in the case of Lofos Skoulia for the wind park, the regional council, the regional management, the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, was positively consulted. I told you that the decision lies, because it is an A2 environmental category, in the decentralised administration. And because you have also referred to the biodiversity of the Ministry of the Environment, if you have given an opinion to make decisions, I would like to say that if you do not respond - badly, but if you do not respond - the address responsible for biodiversity, you know that they are obliged to go through and give an opinion to the Regional Committee on the design of such plants, the PESPA, the Regional Committee on Environmental Licensing, in which the Director-General of the Ministry's Environmental Authorisation is also involved, precisely because there is a lack of transparency in the opinion of the relevant Biodiversity Management. This is an obligation and a prerequisite for the process to be completed. One more thing I want to tell you. Early production licences, producer certificate today after Law 4685, there are many. The permits, however, are few, very few. And if producer attestations are given, it is not certain that they will arrive at an authorisation, because the most critical procedure and which ultimately determines whether such an activity or an wind farm will be built and operated, it is environmental licensing. That is where it is judged and it is the most crucial point. That is why he needs attention from all those involved. In the case of decentralised administration, as I mentioned, this has not been the case for the Ministry to deal with it, taking into account the existing legislation and all the specificities that exist. We said we didn't want to exhaust, much more to add, carrying capacity. It is true that in some areas we have reached about the limit. However, the objective is through the revised plan on the planning of the RES, to reduce and put priorities in the regions, not only to put what is left of a region, but also what the priority is in relation to the objective that we want to cover, because the objective is specific. It's 10 GW by 2030. We know this to how many wind turbines of today's characteristics correspond, because they change. You have referred to the geometric characteristics that really change. They change the diameters, they change the distances to produce with fewer but larger ones. So all this is under review, taking into account all that has emerged since 2008, so that they do not evolve in situations that we do not want, of course, nor do you. That is what I have to say as a point of order. This is why the planning is updated and the revision to take into account all the needs for correction, adaptation and priority. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u60	The fifth will now be discussed under number 780/17-2021 in the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Ermoupolis port shipment'. The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Tagaras. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of State, in September 2019, the environmental organisation ‘AEGEAN REBREATH’, which has signed a memorandum of cooperation with both the Municipality of Syros-Ermoupolis and ELKETHI, has sampled the port of Syros and analysed the sample to the relevant national body, ELCETH. In the debate on the subject on 22 February 2020 on the possible pollution of the marine environment in the port of Syros, the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou then confirmed that checks will be made and that he will commission an integrated study on the marine environment to the port of Syros. He even mentioned that there is a documented problem of heavy metals at the seabed of the port of Syros. On 28 February 2020, the Syros-Ermoupolis Municipal Council decided unanimously to set up an Inter-State Committee to monitor the process and the results of the measurements of ERCF, which would be announced to the Municipal Council for the appropriate actions. ΕΛΕΚΕΤΗ sent the relevant proposal - study at the Municipality of Syros - Ermoupolis in May of '20. But he didn't get any answers. On April 28, 2021, two years after the publication of the findings of the initial sample and during a joint press conference, the Deputy Head of Cyclades and the Mayor of Syros-Ermoupolis announced that not ΕΚΕΚΕΘΕΤΗ, but the Technical University of Crete will undertake the relevant study, the region will sign a programme contract with the Polytechnic in May and the implementation of the study will be financed by ONEX. Since the former Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, said on September 25th from the Step of the Parliament, that the proposal of the PPEH is in line with what we proposed, since the then Deputy Minister, Mr. Economou, committed himself to making a comprehensive study by collecting and processing sediment samples from all the size of the port in order to form a more complete picture of the potential and sources of pollution, and since the Mayor of Syros-Ermoupolis said that he addressed the Ministry for funding and did not receive any response, we ask you: What actions has the Central Water Service of the Ministry of the Environment and the Water Department of the Decentralised Administration taken to exercise their powers in accordance with Law 3199/2003, following the publication of the results of the analysis of the sample ‘AEGEAN REBREATH’ and the recognition by the Ministry of the need to carry out a broad investigation at the port of Ermoupolis, on the seabed and in surface waters, as announced by Mr Economou during the debate on my first question? Secondly, why has the commitment of the previous leadership of the RIS not been made to immediately investigate the contaminant load and its sources from PPE? Does the Ministry intend to participate in the programming contract in addition to the local government to ensure that all the elements necessary for the exercise of the public's powers to identify pollutant sources, the depollution process and the charging of its costs and the prevention of a future repetition of polluting incidents will be collected?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, I have seen the remarks and I am pleased with your question on a very sensitive subject and because I know that you have increased sensitivity to Syros because you have lived there for some years in your life, if I have translated them well from the information I can have, and yet have such an issue regarding the protection of the environment, in this case, the seabed of the port of Ermoupoli from heavy metals and from measurements, from what I have received as information from all the relevant bodies, from samples or samples from the information I have is that the sample is one, but measurements are in relation to the average prices because there are, at least until now, no limits on the prices of heavy metals. And that's a loose end, not just for there, but generally for our country's ports. One is to have representative samples as much to ensure that the measurements are safe and that the information is properly evaluated to take measures. As far as who has the competence and what he does to check this information with the information that has been recorded, I would like to tell you from the updates I have from the relevant services that this move is finally being made on the part of the South Aegean Region - and from the responsible Vice-President, the information - on a programme contract between the Syros Port Fund for a study at the Polytechnic in Crete, a public and reliable body. You ask whether the Ministry of the Environment will also contribute with the presence and control of a role in this programme. The answer is straightforward yes, it will participate and contribute to deciphering, officially recording and evaluating all data and with more samples, sampling representative as the law defines, and on the results, measures will be taken. Since you're addressing the Water Directorate, the updates I've got are that he hasn't received an official report. I'm referring to the Ministry of the Environment. On the subject of the port and Ermoupolis - because you also referred to the PPEHATH, which is indeed a reliable, knowledge-based and experienced body that has dealt with many times and successfully in such areas - the University of Crete has been chosen and we are awaiting the results. Know that the environmental inspectors of the Ministry of the Environment will also be activated in collaboration with the inspectors of South Greece to check such observations and when they have a responsible and final assessment of the results of the measurements, the measures required by legality will be taken. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, because you mentioned that it is not certain whether the figures made by the study are a problem or not, I would like you to answer explicitly whether you disprove Mr Hatzidakis, the previous Minister of your Government, who said explicitly on 21 February 2020, in response to my previous topical question, that there is a documented problem of heavy metals at the bottom of the port of Syros. Is this a statement which the new political leadership of the same government shares? Also, your predecessor, Mr. Economou, said that due to the recognition of the problem, a comprehensive study is required by collecting, processing sediment samples from all the size of the port, in order to form a more complete picture of the potential and sources of pollution. The mayor tells us that he has addressed you for funding and you have never responded within 12 months. We would also like you to answer why and what happened there. Furthermore, we should not laugh at ourselves, the RIS General Secretariat for Natural Environment and Water has sole responsibility for planning, imposing all necessary preventive measures to address emergencies and prevent the deterioration of surface water and the necessary measures to upgrade and restore them. And against that responsibility doesn't anything do? What has she done, based on Law 3199/2003, after the results have been made public? What are the actions taken by the relevant government department? Of course, we need a clarity from the public about what will finally happen with the monitoring of pollutants in the port of Syros, their investigation, possible loads and sources. What we are seeing right now and from your answer is that the public is completely washing its hands on this particular case and we wonder why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Colleague, you said that Mr. Hatzidakis recognized the evidence of the measurements sent for evaluation. I didn't say the evidence was wrong. I said that they needed further evaluation with more samples to have a representative picture of the results. Because, as you know, when a check takes place, it is done with certain rules. You never control results with a sample. They're signs, but they're not results for evaluation. That is why I said that there must be a committee. I would like to tell you that it is the Ministry of the Environment and its services, and it is the decentralised administration with the same decentralized services for the same purpose, working together and coordinating between them, which have an obligation to do. That is why I mentioned before that the South Aegean Region, which is responsible for the Syros Port Fund, concluded with the University of Crete in a study that will have the standards for such measurements, so that the results can be assessed and taken into account. Is there a delay? Of course there's a delay. They should have done it already. But without these results, we cannot do anything. At the same time, I also supplemented the checks on this basis, despite the fact that the checks are regular - and they must be regular - and they are not because something has come about, nor do we let it happen, that something can come about and then we can check it out. That is why the relevant environmental and southern Greek inspectors, as well as the Ministry of the Environment, are dealing with this issue and will soon go back to control. So let us wait for the results and we are here, so that when we have the finally evaluated and secure results, we can see what we need to take to protect what the institutional framework requires. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. And now we move on to the fifth, with number 791/23-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "What is the plan to conduct the pan-Hellenic examinations in the midst of a health crisis?" The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we are really a few days before the start date of the pan-Hellenic examinations in the middle of a pandemic and with children a total of almost a year away and with the system changing through all these changes and the stress they experienced, and now an additional stress is added. Schools opened a few days before the pan-Hellenics without any substantial preparation. Kids are in danger of sticking, losing all of them, all these uncertainties. Mrs Kyrame said there would be the possibility of candidates taking part in a repetitive examination in September, without saying anything else about it, while the questions are huge, are really a lot. Once again it really seems to be going ahead without planning. Will attend the pan-Hellenic tests be carried out using the self-diagnostic control method? Has the Ministry taken into account that in each school hall there will be candidates and candidates from different schools, people who have finished school and are now graduates and will again give full-time students, teachers, supervisors and supervisors from various schools? What about the candidates and the candidates, the supervisors and the supervisors if a case arises in a school exam room? There is also concern about whether older candidates who re-examination will have the right to free self-diagnostic tests. In addition, we want to ask you what prediction has been made and what mechanism has been put on the table so that, given the large amounts of false results of self-tests, students and students and teachers are submitted immediately to PCR so that they are not in danger of being excluded from the pan-Hellenic because of false results. What will the Ministry do for students at risk of being excluded from the pan-Hellenic tests, due to positive self-tests, in order to ensure the right of everyone to participate in the pan-Hellenic examinations and access to higher education? Will graduates and graduates deserve self-esteem? Is there going to be a prioritization to conduct a PCR to them, as to their seniority? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What provision is there for the other candidates examined in the same room, as well as for the training staff if a candidate or candidate finds positive/positive during the pan-Hellenic examinations? What about the school building in case there are multiple cases in different rooms? These are reasonable questions that really await your answers, so that uncertainty and stress for students and students do not continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, of course there was concern. Uncertainty not, because the entire educational community knows that it is always informed in time and valid about the protocols, how to carry out the tests and about the health measures taken. Today I can answer your question, because on Friday it was discussed in the Committee of Experts involving the political leadership of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, the health protocol on the basis of which the pan-Hellenic examinations will be carried out. These measures will be described in detail and in detail in a joint ministerial decision to be adopted briefly. But I am telling you, in your briefing and in reply to your question that, in the case of self-tests, candidates and members of the educational community involved in the exercise of the pan-Hellenic examinations will come to the examination centres with a certificate of negative test with them, either self-test, PCR or rapid test. The first test will take place on Thursday, June 10th, 2021, with the possibility of a confirmatory test in case of a positive result from Thursday 10th to Sunday 13th June. The second test will be carried out on Friday, June 18th, 2021, with the possibility of a confirmatory test in case of a positive result from Friday 18th to Monday 21st of June 2021. For the candidates of Professional Lyceum, the second test will be carried out on Saturday, June 19, with the possibility of a confirmatory test in case of a positive result from Saturday 19th to Tuesday 22nd June 2021. The first two free self-diagnostic tests for participation in the pan-Hellenic examinations will be available to the candidates from the pharmacies from Monday 31 May to Saturday 5 June 2021 in the working hours, as decided by the pharmacists and their associations have announced. Applicants, educational, administrative and other staff shall declare the result of the self-test via the self-testing.gov.gr platform and shall be required to carry with them the electronic evidence or manuscript at the time of their attendance at the examination centre every day of examination. In case of a positive result, a statement of positive results shall be issued through the self-testing.gov.gr platform to perform free rapid test in a public structure. The list of public structures is included in the self-testing.gov.gr Platform If the repeat test is negative, the candidate or the teacher receives a certificate from the examination point and comes to the examination centre. If the repetitive test is positive, the EGE Protocol shall be followed and the candidates will be able to submit a repetitive examination in September at their request, providing evidence of the laboratory result. Candidates or teachers of an examination centre diagnosed with confirmed or confirmed cases during the pan-Hellenic examinations shall normally continue to participate in the examinations. With regard to teachers participating in the conduct of the examinations, provision should be made for replacement in the event of a confirmed positive case. In case one of the resident in the same house with candidate or candidate finds himself positive on the coronary, the candidate may participate in the pan-Hellenic examinations by showing negative laboratory result, PCR or rapid test. If a region in the country is characterised as red in the middle of a pan-Hellenic test, the examinations will be carried out normally with the production of a negative test, self-test, PCR or rapid test, by candidates and educational staff. It should be noted that participation in the repetitive pan-Hellenic examinations of September in relation to the coronary is only provided for if there is a laboratory proven disease of COVID -19 of the candidate itself. The other measures are as follows: The use of a protective mask by candidates, educational, administrative and other staff within their examination centres and outdoors, and measures to prevent and protect the coronary will continue, i.e. sufficient natural ventilation of the actors, avoid confrontation, respect for distances and personal hygiene rules, use of an antiseptic, and meticulous cleaning of the actors. Examination of the ‘Musical performance and interpretation’ course allows the use of lungs and percussion organs. However, a three-mile distance should be observed between examiners and examiners behind the paradigm and the musical instruments should be cleaned by disinfectant after the completion of each candidate's examination. For TECA tests, both the examination instruments and the auxiliary equipment shall be disinfected before each use and a distance between the candidates in the preparation or preheating areas shall be maintained. For the purpose of protecting public health it is recommended that the relatives of the candidates are not conspired outside the examination centre. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you, like Mrs Kerameos, are talking about re-examinations. But the centers for repetitive exams are only in Athens and Thessaloniki. What are we asking of these families? In addition to the costs incurred for telematics - and to be honest, in addition to the intensification of the medical courses they have done in the absence of education this year - and beyond the reduction of family incomes, will children and their families have to be transferred to another city for so many days to do the repetitive examinations for all children who may be ill with COVID? We despair it, but fatal, as the epidemic is evolving without substantially reducing the numbers or reducing them at such a slow pace, obviously we are still living in the wave. This epidemic wave is not over at all. Are you asking the families from all over Greece, the islands, the mountain regions, to travel Athens and Thessaloniki for repetitive pan-Hellenic tests? This is incomprehensible and please look into it. We certainly need to establish repetitive centres in the middle of a pandemic in all cities and in all regions. That's one of the things that doesn't happen. In addition, in general, it is clear that you are concerned about the health of the candidates and that is why you have proceeded to the splendid closure of the class III classes, precisely in order to avoid this risk for the candidates, in order to get the children into an informal quarantine at home. Eventually, however, you have to tell us whether it is or is not a safe environment in schools. And if it is, why did you announce the early closure of the third grade? And if you're worried, why did you do the two tests one? And if you protect the children with this informal quarantine of a month, what about the teachers who will work toward the grandchildren in the school environments and then go to the exams? In fact, we are trying to understand your logic, the logic of the ministry and the government, and unfortunately, the more we look at the issues, the more questions are raised. Also - and I close with this, Madam President - it gives rise to our particular interest and questions how you changed the conditions for the closure of school units from four cases to risk assessment and evaluation of local epidemiological data. It really seems like you want to bypass the epidemiological reality in the way you work with the schools and the pan-Hellenic exams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, I'd have questions and questions from your position. I don't understand, do you imply that there should be a second repetitive check in case the first self test is positive? I do not understand your objections to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u76	On the contrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u77	In any case - I did not interrupt you - I had many questions and listened to you. I don't understand. Are you in favour of tele-education? Are you in favour of reinstatement by living instruction? Excuse me, I have many questions and questions, but they are not here, because I want to answer your question. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the protocols we are adopting and the protocols on the basis of which lifelong learning is based are strictly and are applied under the expert directives. So if you have any further questions or questions there, you will contact another ministry. We follow them, as we owe, strictly. We are therefore, as you have pointed out, in the final straight line and all the appropriate, appropriate and preventive measures have been taken to ensure that the pan-Hellenic tests are carried out properly. In order for the lifelong educational process to return to its normality, the Ministry gave us, as you well know, priority to the opening of high school and, of course, of the third grade, because the pan-Hellenic exams and schools were close for longer than the other activities. Thus, all high school and certainly the 3rd high school came first in life an educational process already before Easter holidays on April 12th, while respecting all previous health protection measures, such as compulsory use of indoor and outdoor masks, different breaks for schoolchildren, stable groups of schoolchildren in sports and other activities, the use of antiseptics, school cleanings, regular aerials of spaces, specific measures for customized Cylindus and computer labs, the use of musical instruments. The most important measure taken to return pupils and pupils to life in education is the compulsory use of free self-diagnostic control, self-test, under the terms and conditions laid down in the Joint Ministerial Decision, as it has so far been. And we extended this not only to educational staff, such as those instruction, but also to special teaching staff and special assistant staff and to administrative and other staff of all primary and secondary school units. As far as our decision to finish the 3rd grades of high school is concerned, this was not a speedy one, as you said, but a requirement. And that's why they're stopping on June 2, 2021, that is, the day after tomorrow, to give more time for the better organization of the examinations, but also for the organization of the time of students and students. In response to the particular conditions of this year's pandemic, we reduced the matter examined by 25% to 30% in accordance with the HR instructions. Instructions were also issued at the School Psychology Laboratory of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens for the psychosocial adjustment on the return of students to schools. For further support to candidates, we have created in every Regional Education Department of the whole country information lines for the pan-Hellenic examinations, as well as psychological support lines for candidates and their families. Open telephone lines will serve candidates for the pan-Hellenic school examinations, as well as parents and guardians in all Regional Departments of Primary and Secondary Education and are staffed by professional guidance advisers and specialists in pan-Hellenic examinations, as well as mental health experts through local Education and Advisory Centres and Education Directorates, which are already in operation since 21 May 2021. Our Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, is next to the candidates with empathy and we share their anxiety, so we have taken a series of measures to help ensure that the pan-Hellenic examinations are carried out smoothly, that the candidates are positively psychology and, of course, that they are health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too, Minister. Also, the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Makri, will respond to the second, number 1861/10-32021, a reference to the cycle of petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "The complaint of the National Board of Proclamation of the Debts of Germany to Greece, on the "MOG/Memory from the German occupation in Greece" programme. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, our subject concerns historical memory, education and, at the same time, a national issue. On the occasion of the letter - a complaint, as they call it by the National Council for the Obligation of German debts to Greece - which was addressed to the President of the Institute for Education Policy, but also to the political leadership of the Ministry of Education and you personally, I have tabled this report, because I think that there has been no such preparation and there has been no such preparation and the conditions for this programme should not be implemented with the purposes which are being denounced and which concern the pursuit of a re-writing of the history of the Occupation and, above all, the history of the Resistance. The programme is, of course, financed by the German Government, but we should see from some examples that it does not reflect historical reality. For example, it does not mention any of the Holocausts either in Crete or in the rest of Greece on the Occupational Calendar, and this alone shows that it is trying to make a lifting of the crimes and atrocities of the Third Reich in order to rewrite the story. What I am now asking you, Minister, because the Ministry of Education is directly involved, is, first of all, to have a meeting and an honest discussion with the Council, the National Council for the vindication of German debts. It is a serious institution that can help to avoid what is at stake and it is said that it is already being done. The second is this. If you have already taken some action, if there are insurance systems and guarantee that there will be no counterfeiting of history, you will inform us, because what we see is being attempted by rewriters of history, by rewriters of history, that things will be rounded up and, therefore, on the question of claiming and claiming German debts to be counter-problems, since so far Germany has not taken a single step in relation to its position. I would like to inform you that, because I have also addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the issue of German debts has said that Greece has never given up on the claims - this is a permanent position of Greece - but at this time there is the development that I fear, if they have on the slightest basis everything they are complaining about, that they will actually overturn many of our arguments, of course by distorting the truth and the reality. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the question. Of course we agree that Greece has never given up on the claims. Besides, the more competent lips than mine have been told to you. So, in response to your reference, the project entitled "Memory from the Occupation in Greece" - MOG are the initials - it is a new bilingual digital educational platform created in the context of the oral history project "Memory of the Occupation in Greece", by a group of Greek and German scientists, with the aim of exploiting it in school education. The objective: The programme is already implemented at the Center für Digitale Systeme of the Freien Universität Berlin, the Free University of Berlin. In the formation of bilingualism, in the Greek and German languages, digital platforms take place from the German side, the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the German Free University of Berlin, the "Memory, Responsibility and Future" Foundation and from the Greek side, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens and the "Stavros Niarchos". That is, Mr Colleague, the creation of third parties. The educational platform "Memory from the Occupation in Greece" includes the collection and archiving of ninety-three testimonies for the German occupation in our country and seeks to record and disseminate information about this destructive period of modern European and Greek history. The control groups are victims of retaliation and massacres in martial sites, survivors of bombings, members of resistance organisations, Jewish Holocaust survivors, prisoners of concentration camps and people who have experienced the tragic historical period in different ways and can testify to their personal experience through the oral word. In these testimonies, the German occupation is also approached experientially by the oral testimony of the experiences of the persons involved and the facts are told. However, the historic approach of an event, much more of a complex historical phenomenon such as the German occupation and its consequences, creates scientific dialogue, requires critical investigation and a sober reason. Interviews are an important place for personal stories to be an alternative source of information, as well as emotions, personal motives, people's perceptions that would otherwise remain voiceful. That is why the historian who seeks to draw evidence from personal interviews ensures that he does not get carried away into wrong assessments and seeks extra evidence to cross-check and validate them. Oral history is only a form of modern trends in history, an aspect of historical research, is the opposite of social and political history, of great historical monographs and is approaching the past through small narratives. The representatives of microhistoric have shifted reflection from multiplier groups to large groups in local, individual and details. However, I have to say here that so far no request for the approval of the educational platform "Memory from the Occupation in Greece", as an educational tool in Greek schools, has been submitted. As a result, it has not been evaluated by the Institute for Educational Policy, so that it officially exploits its material and is then assessed and exploited by the teachers, students and students of Greek schools. Any body other than the Greek Government and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs has the possibility in the context of democracy and the free movement of ideas to create educational material, but this does not mean that it is also an appropriate educational tool to exploit itself in the educational process of the Greek schools, without first being assessed and submitted a corresponding request for approval to the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u82	And I, Minister, thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, first of all, it is good that there has been no formal approval and no formal adoption of all the things that are being done. Of course, the programme seeks in itself to show that it is also under the aegis of the official state in the general sense. Any researcher, any historian or others has the freedom, within the framework of our democratic culture, to write, develop and say his opinion on the facts in order to be judged. What we say is not to use the students and the educational system to rewrite history, because the history of World War II, the Occupation and the Resistance and their consequences has already been sufficiently documented. Separate events or individual stories of course and have their value, but one is a given, that Greece has now, with the unanimous decision of the House, identified the part concerning Germany's obligations. And history has been recorded and the damage the Third Reich did in Greece has been recorded. The battle for the historical memory and the claim of German debts are not parallel procedures and independent ones. They're going together. This must be borne in mind by the government, which is why I have addressed both ministries. I have to say that in recent years there has been a critical and great negative development. Before the July 2019 elections, the SYRIZA government secretly went and signed an agreement establishing the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation that would otherwise be a positive development. Under what conditions? Germany must also have taken a step in the direction of restoring and fulfilling its obligations, which it has not done. Unfortunately the government that came after July also legislated this "Greek-Greek". A combination of the MOG programme for historical memory to rewrite history. Perhaps in an international court in the case of German debts it will have some documentation that will say: "But that's not exactly the way the Greek Parliament has said it, because one, two, three, have the educational programme that had these results." It is an entire German government scenario to rewrite history through infiltration into our educational system, to overturn evidence. We are not afraid of it, because the evidence is unscathed, the lives that have been lost the same, history is recorded and cannot tarnish it, but unfortunately they always find some willing people. I will present to you a post entitled "The counterfeiting of history as an educational method!" - because I don't have time to develop more - which was published in a newspaper in Crete. Of course, I must refer to another SYRIZA "syriza". SYRIZA, therefore, with Professor Antonis Liakou, a member of the Political Secretariat of the Civilian Anti-Population Party, comes as willing to contribute to this effort made by Germany and says in this unequivocally, that the claim of German debts is deteriorating the historical memory. Professor Liaco, Mr. Tsipras, the opposite is true. Unfortunately, the renunciation of the historical memory undoes the claim of German debts and you are due, Mr Tsipras, to collect Mr Liako. That is why, Minister, because there are willing people, and in many respects this is the case with regard to the claim of German debts that relate to both our history and the dignity of the Greek people, I would ask you to have a meeting with the National Council, to put these things in mind and I hope that there will be the guarantees that this whole story will not be overturned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u84	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u85	Mr Colleague, I can assure you that I will pass it on to the Minister. I will of course not respond to what you have said about SYRIZA's policy. As far as the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is concerned, I have the honour of being a member of it, the willingness begins and runs into recording historical events accurately, without counterfeiting and without distortion. I would like to tell you that in our own schools, in Greek schools, the teaching of the lesson in history and the period of German occupation in our country is already achieved through the current history curriculum and approved school manuals, which help to cultivate the historical consciousness and prevent the collective historical memory of the Greeks. The new programs will be enriched with additional digitalized educational material covering the period of German occupation in Greece and will include studies of approved Greek historians. The work of forming the curricula of the history course has already been undertaken by a group of scientists of all levels of education, who have been selected according to the procedures laid down in the "Strengthening of curricula and the creation of primary and secondary education materials" and the "Training of teachers in curricula and primary and secondary education". These scientists will form the curriculum on the basis of scientific criteria and, after their approval, will follow the training of teachers and their pilot implementation in primary and secondary schools. The process will be completed by writing the history school books on the basis of the new curricula. I will highlight to you the important reforms that the Ministry gave us priority and accelerated the procedures for the implementation of modern educational methods by changing the philosophy of education. It is the reform and updating of four hundred and fifty-three detailed curricula in general and vocational education, many of which have had to be updated since 1998. These are the new manuals, the digital material library, the alternative ways of evaluating students who are key features for the attempted reformist educational effort, are skills workshops that will generally be implemented after their pilot application in the school year 2021-2022 and the piles of new educational digital tools available to the educational community, as well as digitalised educational material and digital repositories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be debated after consultation, the first with number 802/24-5-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Management and Protection of the Peripheral Forest of Thessaloniki Seich - Su". Also, the fourth question under number 795/24-2021 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The problem that has arisen with foreign workers in the primary sector will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. Now we will discuss the third question by number 793/24-2021 of the second question by the Member of the Halkidiki Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Incorporation into a financial programme of the project: "Manufacture of a New Heraclea Halkidiki Stadium (No. Mel. Regulation (EC) No 14/2019)’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Eleftherios Ausgeakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u87	Minister, I would once again like to emphasise Halkidiki's great need for infrastructure to ensure that its citizens are able to make progress and progress. A very important issue, therefore, is this part of Halkidiki's sport, namely the construction of a fireplace at the New Heraklion Stadium of the Municipality of Nea Provontida. In order to carry out this project, as the Municipality of Nea Promodida, which has been notified to you, after obtaining all the necessary permissions, has prepared a study since 2019 and submitted it to the Ministry of Culture and specifically to the prior administration of the Ministry. Despite the assurances from the previous administration, therefore, that the project will be funded through the Public Investment Program and the contacts it has made with it, so far we have nothing specific to join a specific financial programme, to disillusion the citizens of the Municipality of Nea Produs, but above all high performance athletes with a worldwide record and performance Olympic Games that are active in the region and specifically the athletes of the great "Centauros" sports club based in Nea Kallikia. Minister, knowing your sensitivity, you must know that the existing infrastructure is unfortunately now inappropriate and do not facilitate their training and achievement of their objectives. For these reasons, I ask you: Do you intend to immediately incorporate the project for the construction of a fireplace in the New Heraklion Stadium? What if so, with what estimated timeline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u88	And I, Mr. Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr Halkidiki, for your question regarding the financing of the construction of a landfill site in Nea Heraclea Halkidiki, a county that indeed has great athletes, great sports clubs that offer daily for the development of Greek sport. In fact, no one disagrees that both the sports family and local communities are worth the best possible sports infrastructure, modern sports facilities that will encourage the new generation in sport and provide the best training conditions in local active sports clubs. We therefore fully understand the needs and demands of both the Municipality of Nea Protestidas and all the municipalities that knocked on the door of the General Secretariat of Sports and asked for its wallet to finance the projects in the sports facilities, their sports infrastructure. You cannot imagine, my dear fellow Member, in what state we found the sports infrastructure of the whole country that we received about two years ago. The unprecedented images of decline and dissolution were seen almost everywhere, a situation that was not worthy of either our sporting family, nor of the legacy left to us by Greek sport. The decline cried for itself everywhere. There was no way I could allow this situation to remain, to continue this tragic situation. It would be against my own authorities to be another political leader who would turn his back on this huge problem. With this in mind, therefore, with this suffocating pressure of time, with hard work, we have been able to deal with a very short amount of chronic problems. I'm on my way, and I'm gonna end up in Halkidiki. Look at the OAS. In addition to the maintenance and restoration activities of the facilities and the environment, we are implementing a series of actions that give back to the installation the status quo it deserves. In collaboration with the LAMDA Development, we proceed to an overall upgrading of the Olympic humidity centre by building a new pool of 20 to 25, the replacement of the swimming pool and the renovation of all the areas of the swimming pool. We are aiming to make the installation of one of the largest wet spot centres in Europe with eleven bathing tanks. We exploited the sixteen tennis courtes of the OAS. The company ‘STADIO 2020’ has undertaken to rebuild the tennis fields and the auxiliary premises. Before renting the facilities, we had a cost of EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000. After the lease, we have a profit of over 200,000 euros. In addition to the upgrade projects implemented, daily use about a thousand athletes at the tennis facilities. It is the second use of Olympic sports relocation after that of the Ano Liosianos Clergy with the ANE AEK. Please very much wait a little longer for the master plan presentation. I'm talking about the OECD. We will include the full modernisation and development of the Olympic Stage as a whole through the Recovery Fund. Look at the CFD. Complete lack of security, cost-effective infrastructures with no trace of maintenance with an environment where you were afraid to walk especially after sunset. We didn't stand there with our hands crossed. We did a lot of work and we did a lot of hard work. We created two new tennis courts, we proceeded to reconstruct the conference hall and create a new multipurpose hall, placement of shades for energy saving and natural aesthetic upgrade. In cooperation with the Region of Attica, we proceed to regenerate the surroundings around the sports facilities with emphasis on the placement of walking and bicycle routes and thus the restoration of traffic. It is a EUR 2.5 million project. In Agios Kosmas we did work on cleaning and repairing the roofing water supply of the closed regulator and gymnastics, as well as recolouring the closed sports facilities and support areas of Agios Kosmas and damage restoration work for the safe operation of the open swimming pool. We are implementing the modernisation of the maintenance of the National Closed Gymnasium of Kapagrerov and with the LAMDA Development, we have signed a memorandum of cooperation for the transfer and conversion of the facilities of Agios Kosmas within the Metropolitan Park of Prasin and Recreation of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas. The current sports facilities with all their activities, functions and facilities remain in operation until their phased replacement with corresponding facilities within the metropolitan park. I'm finishing up with the Olympic Village. It is a flagrant facility which, to the surprise of all of us, had passed into the OAS and remained until we sought it, claimed it and now belongs to the General Secretariat of Sports. The only maintenance that was done was by the esteem of three amateur unions using the facilities. We have again taken ownership of the OAED, appointed a management committee and proceeded with the modernisation of the Northeast Attica sports complex in a multi-sport area thanks to the excellent cooperation we have with the Municipality of Acharnon, which even gave us 46.8 acres that border on our facilities. We put in front of mild, outdoor sports infrastructure development of amateur sport: Perimeter perimeter street, mountain cycling, hiking areas etc. With all this, I have described our key projects and initiatives at the Lecade level in general. Immediately afterwards I will refer to some interventions in the sports facilities of Thessaloniki and of course I have good news for Halkidiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u91	Minister, with your position, it is understandable that you recognize the importance and the contribution of sport and especially to local communities. But in addition to this recognition, in order to do so, there must also be appropriate infrastructure, as you have mentioned, since the way of athletes is hard with many deprivations. This must be done immediately, since the New Propontida region has been affected repeatedly by theories and the facilities of the New Heraclea field cannot be maintained. Some of these athletes use them temporarily because there is no suitable space on the New Heraclea Stadium, but in no case are they suitable to meet the needs of this level of athletes. So athletes claim self-evidently and specific specifications need to be provided to continue to make us proud. Also, Minister, you will allow me to say this. Because New Callikratia is my hometown, this club I know very well, and I know a very important effort made by the coach there, Mr. Botskarov, to over two hundred and fifty children who are at work. And when we talk about athletes, we talk about athletes who are at the moment giving us full-fledged and global performance. Allow me to say though there may be more experienced than I do here in the Chamber that perhaps this group will be the verse's dream team over the next few years. We must therefore support it. I ask you before the Greek Parliament that these athletes should not be in these conditions at the moment. I know you'll see the subject thoroughly. It's a matter of quality culture and sport. It is an issue that must finally become a reality. It's not just a local society. It's about our sport, our future. They are children who are now depriving themselves of their personal deprivation on the side of sport. In any case, believe that it is the future of our country's sport. Some of these with their own power and all of us may be seen in the upcoming Olympic Games. I would really like to ask you, today, to have something specific about the financing of this project in order to have good news that the local community needs, but also the psychology that at least the athletes know - I was never - how important it is for them to continue their efforts at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u92	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I have nothing to argue with you. No one likes to see sport facilities smearing, and that is why we have raised our priorities to upgrade and create new sports facilities, because development, in addition to other measures and initiatives necessary to reform our sporting structure, also depends on the existence of safe sports facilities. Their modernisation is a one-way investment for the new generation, for our best sporting environment. As I mentioned earlier, Mr Pana, some of our works, since you are also a member of Halkidikis, I urge you to visit our facilities in Thessaloniki to see the progress that has been made both at Katanzoglio Stadium and at the National Sports Centre of Thessaloniki. At this point let me give my sincere thanks to the administrations and workers, because they are preparing a continuous plan for upgrading and modernising the neglected for too many years of facilities serving the tens of thousands of athletes in the co-chair. To be more specific. Thanks to the close cooperation we have with the District Director of Central Macedonia Apostolos Djijkosta, the funding of energy upgrades from the region was approved in our following facilities: Posidonio Naval Sports Center EUR 2.4 million, closed gym and swimming pool Naples 1.2m euros, Micra, Micra 1, fitness house, 1,95m euros. In addition, in addition to the cleaning, disinfection and decontamination work carried out in all infrastructures after many years, a large number of works have taken place in all the facilities of the National Sports Centre. Indicatively: National Swimming Pool, two new boilers of one and a half million calories each for heating the swimming pools, dismantling part of the roof of the women's locker room, repairing roof parts with concrete, sealing the staircase. Poseidonius Naval Sports Center. A programme agreement is signed with the region to rebuild the eight external basketball fields and place training equipment in the environment. A new electronic scoreboard was also placed. Closed swimming pool and gym of Naples. We have the repair of bottom swimming pool, replacement of rust and dangerous metal tubes and high durability PVC tubes. In Alexandria Melathos, upgraded central electromechanical plant management system after seventeen years, repairing the three central cooling units where only one had been operating for too many years. Micra: Climbing the roof in the gym "I. Eleissandis (Micra 1), ceiling repair to "Mirra 3" (Hadball), full modernization of the field 5X5 with enclavement, quartz sand as coating, new synthetic turf and rebuilding of tiles and space environments. Stavroupolis: Works for heating and connection installation with a natural gas network in the closed gym are completed. However, in collaboration with the Municipality of Paul Mela the study of the construction of track routes at the stage, a budget of EUR 928 000 was drawn up. In Kacatanzoglio, after several postponements the contractor completed the task of substituting the Tartan of the central line cost of 880,000 euros and is now being used by the sports family of our country. We are constantly working to make full use of the facilities as a whole and to host again important international events, which took place last time in 2009. At the same time, the remaining required upgrades of Katanzoglou are evolving, with more important studies on fire safety and energy upgrading, as well as the expansion of the dumping area. Obviously the General Secretariat of Sports is not just focused on the flagship sports centers that belong to us. Our concern is that all regions of the country horizontally acquire modern sports stadiums, which, apart from sport, will also strengthen our country's sporting tourism. That is why we are trying to use every financial instrument. For example, in the "PHILADIMOS II" programme, we have agreed, that is to say, an initial approval to the Ministry of the Interior for a total of EUR 199 million of sports projects. Also, around 25 million euros are covered by the new "ITIS ANTI-DUMPING" programme to create or upgrade sports facilities throughout the country, then - I repeat - by our first approval. Our spear is the Public Investment Program where despite the limited appropriations that we receive every year as a Ministry of Sport, we are showing our highest, perhaps the highest, absorbency and we are running a total of eighty-nine budget projects of 74m euros. Because of the limited available resources you realise that we are trying to wisely make our money available to project requests that are complete and meet the needs of local society. We are currently preparing a proposal to the Ministry of Development and Investment, which will leave by the end of the week, to include new projects in the State Investment Programme of the Ministry of Sport. And I am happy to inform you, as I inform friends, the party members of the prefecture who have addressed me and have been in excellent communication and cooperation all these years, that the construction of a fireplace at the New Heraklion Stadium of Halkidiki 350,000 euros belongs to the list of projects drawn up in our proposal. The project includes - and will be approved - the formation and construction of an open space (coach) casting, hammer, ball and disc within the Municipal Stadium of Nea Heraclea Halkidiki. The net area of the coach is 7,300 m2. In particular, a record valve, the acronym installations with a double pathway, a hammer valve and a ballistic missile valve shall be installed in the particular area of the coach. A proper and fair request I would say to the society of Halkidiki and the sports family of your county is going to be implemented. A request that has been left in the drawer for many years, as you have already mentioned, is being acted, entered into our programming and planning for the next period's PPP is part of the work that you request and ask not only yourself, but also the sporting family of your prefecture as a whole. At the same time, I would like to inform you that forty-seven legally active sporting amateur clubs, which have already received EUR 122,500, are operating in the Halkidiki Prefecture. Mr. Colleague, through our initiatives we have come very close to the sporting family. I am an interlocutor throughout my course, throughout this course of sport reform, and I can therefore say with absolute certainty that we are listening to their demands, their concerns and their demands, which are not absurd. But we always work carefully, without big words and empty promises.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u94	Minister, please very much, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Madam President. We weigh the priorities and what we are proclaiming, we do so. The sports family recognizes the sincere treatment, rewards it, and most importantly it stands an ally in the effort of our sport reform. And that is reflected in the draft law that we are introducing directly into the Committee on Morphic Affairs this week. I hope and hope that it will benefit from the support of all the political forces of the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the eighth question under number 801/24-5-2021 of the second question of the Member of the Hercules of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy on the subject: "Done for fourteen years at the bottom of Santorini, the SEA DIAMOND". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Constantine Katsafandos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u97	Before I start the question, I would like to mention that this timely question was to be answered last Monday. I was called by Mr. Placiotakis' office to ask if we could take it a week later, because Mr. Placiotakis couldn't have been here last Monday. I agreed. I said fourteen years remains SEA DIAMOND over there, won't we wait a week? And today we see that Mr. Plakkatakis is missing. I'm afraid, with all due respect to your face, that he was made to a naughty flight before I even testify to my question. Anyway, let's go to today's question. Mr. Undersecretary, it has been fourteen years since the submersion of the "SEA DIAMOND" by Louis Hellenic-Cruises in Santorini. The shell of the ship is abandoned at the seabed, hung on the edge of the cliff. The port of Santorini is one of the most touristic of the Mediterranean and the island contributes with more than 1% of the country's GDP and receives more than two million visitors each year at a growth rate. SEA DIAMOND continues to pollute marine ecosystems with oil and water soluble toxic substances from the shipwreck and the erosion of its hazardous materials. The ship contained sixty - five tonnes of diesel, four hundred - seven - tons of fuel oil, two hundred - six tons of waste and thirty - two tons of lubricants on the basis of its green book. Approximately 50 tonnes have been pumped, but only 1% of the oil in the General Chemistry of the State was 99% of the seawater and only 1% of the oil. It's almost all still in the shipwreck and still escaping, while the shipowner company has collected $6 million for the extraction of oil. In the research carried out by the University of Crete in fish collected in the area, very high prices were detected in dangerous heavy metals, such as mercury, cadmium, lead. The Council of State, by means of Decision 1820/2019, following an appeal from the international action on the environment and culture of Santorini, the Institute of Marine Protection in Archipelagos and the Omega Community, has decided that the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy has a direct and autonomous obligation to initiate the procedures for raising the Sea Diamond. Although large international lifting companies submitted relevant tenders in 2019 in an international tendering procedure and even two of the largest lifting companies made them below the threshold set, this procedure did not proceed as the tender was cancelled only two days before the opening of tenders. Since the message we give as a country is that immersion and abandonment of ships in Greek waters is a profitable energy, because shipyards are rising everywhere around the world directly to prevent environmental pollution, do you ask, Mr Secretary, that is, firstly, an inability to manage or simply serve interests? And secondly, will the shipwreck procedure be advanced and completed under your Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u98	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of the cruise shipwreck 'SEA DIAMOND' in the Gulf of Caldera in Santorini is not the first time Parliament has been concerned. I must, however, give some answers to some of the inaccuracies you have said. As far as environmental pollution in the region is concerned, we must say that it has been dealt with since the first time. From the first moment the shipwreck took place, the state immediately rushed and faced environmental pollution there on the basis of its potential. In the second part of what you said in relation to the extraction of the oil, I have to tell you that the biggest, vastly larger part has been raised, Mr Colleague. Of course, I must tell you - because that is where you spoke about the Blue Fund and I must inform you about it - that there is no request in the archives of the Maritime Environment Directorate at the Ministry of Commerce, so the Blue Fund procedure has not been subsidized. I also have to submit a document on the Minutes, because we need to inform you that in recent years there has been constant surveillance by an anti-pollution company in what has to do with the shipwreck, in order to check the environmental impact that it has in the area, but there are constant checks carried out by the EMPLOYE in the area. I must therefore present to you, for the record, the conclusion of the expert report on the decisions of the maritime department, which clearly states that the current situation is stable and clearly bred, having a natural restructuring in the wider maritime area. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] In addition, Mr Colleague, let me inform you that, in his related document of 11 September 2020, the overall conclusion of the measurements covering the thirteen-year period from the accident is that there does not appear to be any apparent impact on the marine ecosystem of the area. The area is characterised by a good environmental situation in terms of both hydrocarbons and heavy metals. And that's not what the Ministry of Trade Shipping says, it's called independent organizations. You said, Mr President, that the message we are giving as a country is that sinking and abandoning ships is a profitable activity for shipping companies. Let me point out again that it is more than six hundred and twenty fines that have been served on the company and the money that has to pay the Greek State is more than 8,300,000 euros. So, as you can see, the control mechanisms have done their job and we are in the process of getting this money, because they have served the shipping company. You also talked about the freeze we had from the Ministry of Commerce, Shipping, as far as the lifting contest of the shipwreck is concerned. I must tell you, as the Minister himself said, Mr Plakkatakis, that unfortunately the IAL was unjustified to carry out this tender. The public authorities of ports, Mr. Colleague, are not competent to proceed with shipwrecking procedures. Nevertheless, in recognition of the critical nature of the situation, considering the size and the environmental risk that can be created, the Minister for Trade Maritime Affairs, Mr. Placiotakis, in February 2021, set up a committee, which is studying with the relevant experts and shipyards, but also chemists and in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, all these delicate issues of this particular shipwreck - because you understand that it is very sensitive and environmentally and technically - so that it can finally be raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. "SAMINA" is still in Paros, as is so many other shipwrecks in the Aegean Sea. In America, when they want to hurt cars from trains or shipwrecks, they go and strip them completely. They only leave the shells. They take off the plastics, they take it all off. A similar example of shipwreck management we have on 31 January 2012 in Tuscany, Italy, in the case of the shipwreck 'COSTTA CONCORDIA' by the Italian authorities, which forced the shipowner to raise the shipwreck that was directly raised in September 2013, went for dismantling and recycling. Here, Mr Secretary, Greece is not allowed - and quite rightly so - to fly a television into the sea. Is it possible to leave a whole ship there all these years? What legacy do we leave to our children with such shipwrecks? Another environmentally toxic time bomb, as well as with so many other shipwrecks I mentioned. There are more in Evia and Andros and Mykonos and everywhere. The shipwreck erosion continues. The shell can crumble in much larger depth. It can be cut, broken in two, and that would result in the ecological and not only Caldera disaster. The length of time to the future of harmful emissions will exceed four hundred years, based on studies by the University of Crete. It is a matter of daily time and even more now, with the pandemic crisis that we are preparing to open up tourism in one of the world's most famous and multi-photographic regions. But the ministry and the state have been devastating for fourteen years. It's our country's biggest environmental marine problem. It owes you, Minister, to clean the Greek seabeds from such toxic shipwrecks and to make use of European resources and to highlight the seabed of the Aegean Sea and its marine wealth, otherwise the foreign international instruments will show it that you do not affect and will "clean" them for you. I do not want to imagine a photograph with the Prime Minister announcing the opening of tourism in Santorini and from somewhere there is a huge environmental problem. Rise now, clean bottom. The clock keeps ringing. If the Minister were here - and I would ask you to pass it on - from Crete, since the timely question was to become last week, I would like as Cretan Minister, but even more as Lasithiotis, to take place for the complete restoration of the burial monument at the 1st Athens Cemetery of the great national and Cretan benefactor, Antonis Papadakis, who is also his co-operator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, we may disagree on many things, but we agree on one thing, that the case must be terminated with the shipwreck of SEA DIAMOND, and it is indeed an obligation for the state as soon as possible to be able to increase this coffer from the Caldera of Santorini. We must, however, do so seriously. We must do so by complying with all the rules governing such procedures. We must do this responsibly and as you are right to write in your timely question, there are still pending judicial proceedings. We must therefore respect the laws, respect the environment, respect the marine ecosystem of the region, and respect the human lives that will go through this whole process, because it is a very, very difficult project and we must have a technological study. For example, the shipyards are limiting the cost of raising this shipwreck from EUR 550 million to more than EUR 1 billion. We must therefore be wise, with determination and seriousness, with realism to address this important problem. And we'll do it. I told you that in February 2021, the Minister set up a committee of experts and representatives of the Ministry of Shipping solely on this matter, so that the necessary technological study can be carried out and then proceed to the tender procedure for the lifting of the shipwreck. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] And I come here today to give you a binding date, Mr President. We are therefore committed as Ministry of Trade Shipping and Island Policy to the fact that by 29 September 2021 the committee will have reached its conclusion so that we can proceed with the necessary further steps. But I have to tell you this. Of course, the Ministry of Trade Shipping is in good and continuous consultation and cooperation with the Municipal Port of Thera, which is also responsible for many issues concerning the shipwreck. But I must say that at the moment, the state is doing everything in its power to safeguard the marine ecosystem in the region and it seems to the experts' reports that we have achieved this. We are moving forward, respecting judicial decisions and making the officials and experts responsible, so that we can have a full report at last so that we can resurrect the shipwreck. And I think this will be a very positive result for the country, not just for the government. But to stand on this point, Mr President: it is good to criticise it, but there are some issues that are above that. And this shipwreck troubles all governments over time, as you can see, because we've been talking for over ten years about this suffering. Efforts have been made, efforts are being made and we should find the best and most capable way to deal with the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u104	We continue with the second with number 785/19-5-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'What actions does Greece take to exclude the status of "patent" vaccines against COVID -19'? Mr. Kourublis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known because we are all experiencing it as people throughout the world, the issue of pandemic which has been afflicted and, above all, we are experiencing the consequences for people's lives themselves and, of course, the consequences for the global economy. The dimensions of this pandemic crisis are inconceivable and no one can count on the future consequences. Science is trying and we must all recognise that this time science has been placed in the service of man. We must therefore recognise all the trouble and effort of all the scientists. As he points out, Madam President, the President of the World Trade Organisation, societies to get rid of this crisis with the least possible consequences should firstly be rid of the health protectionist perceptions. In 1995 the World Trade Organization in fact established famous patents for the protection of the intellectual property of pharmaceutical companies. However, the then legislator and the people who contributed to this decision predicted that there should be an explicit provision enabling budgetary, health crises to be given the possibility of suspending the patent. A very important forecast that created an exception that was extremely important. In 2001, again in Doha, the World Trade Organisation, in discussing these issues, extended this possibility to poor countries to be able to intervene and restrict the patent. However, we must admit that companies with their strength, cultivate and maintain an unbaptised as far as the patent case is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u106	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u107	I'm closing, Mr. President. This global crisis has now arisen, which has put everyone and everything, the institutions, the states themselves and the democracies to a great deal of test. And there has now been a conflict in the substance of the argument of intellectual property companies and the right of all peoples to life for parallel vaccination in order to avoid not only the great discrimination and the terrible inequalities that arise, Madam President, but above all to avoid the consequences...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u109	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think it is a matter for you to give me a minute. So I believe that there is a strong legal and political argument, Mr President, which supports the view that there should be a suspension. Because - we all know now - a great deal of slamming has arisen in Europe, very big discussions by large public media, but also by many bodies that there must be a suspension. For research on innovative medicines, but mainly for vaccines, has received large funding from both Europe and America....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Comrade, you've reached four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u111	Yes, Mr. President, I'm closing. And so we believe that there is strong reason to support President Biden's proposal in America, which is really historic and has actually opened Hailus's academy and has now given the step...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Comrade, please, you've reached five minutes. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u113	So that we can really discuss this extremely critical issue, Mr President, billions of citizens throughout the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Mr Colleague, please very much for the continuation of the debate, because time is specific. There was tolerance, but from two minutes, you got to five and a half. Please very much in your dentistry to be within time. The Minister has the floor, and I would ask him to be in his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u115	First of all, before I answer the question, I would like to welcome Mr Kurublé to the Chamber. This is the first time since you have returned to the Chamber, Minister, to meet with you parliamentaryally. And I wanted to express my wishes for a good remnant of service. And since we are talking about good words, I should like to say a second good word. You may not like it as much as the first. I must say, Mr President, that it is an excellent honour for me that a SYRIZA MEP expresses my first question that I have the honour to make in the Greek Parliament such a vivid defence of the President of the United States of America even for a specific proposal. It is also a sign of the times, a progress for our political culture that the party of the Radical Left coalition can express so strongly pro-American feelings within the Greek Parliament. Thank you, thank you, thank you, for always being a warm pro-American, and "we belonged to the West" is a historic justice of my ideas and of the fact that I have the honour to represent. Now let's go to the object. As you know, Minister, and as a result of your term of office in the Ministry of Health, patents are an extremely central point in the production of innovative medicines on the world market. Without patents, there are no original innovative medicines. Countries that do not have a developed patent system produce zero innovative medicines, because it is not the patent that prevents it, but what allows billions to be spent on research and therefore there are companies and donors who have an interest in doing so. Consequently, the existence of the patents itself protected by the International Trade Regulation and by European legislation and by Greek legislation is the cornerstone of the existence of innovative medicines. Without patent protection, billions of people would die because they would not have innovative treatments. Is there an exception and are conditions foreseen by what I just said? Yeah, it's the answer. In exceptional cases and for reasons of protection of public health, and the European Treaty and the Trade Regulation and the Greek legislation allow for exemption in particular from what I mentioned earlier precisely for the protection of public health. Is this a view that the present Greek Government and it defends it and has shown it before President Biden? Of course. On 4 April 2020, that is, one year before President Biden's proposal, the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in an interview with him in the latest German newspaper ‘FRANKFURTER ALLGEMINE ZEITUNG’, supported the proposal of the Professor of Public Health of LSE, Mr. Ilias Mosilos, for what? To buy at reasonable prices the European authorities the patent for vaccines and rapid test and to make them available free of charge to those countries that would not be able to buy vaccines and tests to organise a global production of such products that would cover global demand. This is on 4 April 2020. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes, and I would ask you to be in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u117	I am pleased, Minister, that you are even now talking about this in such a way, but you must justify it to us, after you have said your first words, to accept it, although it is not because it does not matter, in politics matters are judged on the result. So tell us what the New Democracy has voted for in the amendment tabled by the Party of European Left which has recently received a majority in order to suspend the patent? And because you have been, but I too, the Minister of Health, know very well what interests the patents hide. And it is not the whole truth with that view that you supported, Minister, why put it in your secondary speech if you have used billions of money allocated to research and to innovative medicines that support the view that Europe together should negotiate the price of innovative medicines because it has paid them to research in universities and research centres. You know them, as I know them and others do. So the question is, is it now if there is a global health crisis, is there a pandemic worldwide? Is the economy threatened with a trillion-dollar world? Is there a big, huge issue of inequality and discrimination? Greece, a tourist country, is affected by the continuation of this situation, Minister? So answer me, these gentlemen must or should not accept the argument, which is constantly gaining ground in Europe and in America, regardless of what SYRIZA has done with the United States. You who say that, because you are also one - I do not want to personalise it - a politician on the people's right, I am impressed by the fact that you are putting yourself on this proposal, regardless of who said so. I have to accept that Mitsotakis was the first to say. I don't have a problem with that. My problem is that we all meet together at such a juncture, on the same front - that is worthwhile - and defend values that have to do with the fact that man is above the profits of these companies. That's the issue, and that's where we need to find the common place. The rest I think they're flaming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor, and please be within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u119	Mr Colleague, we do not have to disagree where we agree. It is known that the Greek Government, through the Prime Minister, supported the proposal for the release of vaccine patents under specific conditions in order to be able to place such vaccines in the countries of the third world which do not have the power to obtain them. So it's well known, we've already done it as a government. But I have to say about the conversation you have been having. You understand, and both colleagues, who are next to you, who are doctors, understand that the problem with vaccines today is not the patents. Firstly and above all, I must tell you that about four months ago the European Commission, Mr President, asked the Member States to inform which domestic industries of each Member State could, if the patent were provided, start production of these vaccines. I, as Minister of Development, officially received the request from Commissioner Bretton and transferred it to the entire Greek pharmaceutical industry. Two companies - I will not say their name so that I do not appear to be making advertising - expressed interest and said that if they had sufficient funding from Brussels, they could produce vaccines. I am not referring to the vaccine 'PFIZER' and 'MODERNA', i.e. MRNA, but only to the vaccine 'ASTRAZENCA' and 'JOHNSON & JOHNSON', i.e. the traditional type of vaccine. Both companies officially and in writing informed that if there was funding and an adequate plan, they would be able to start producing these vaccines in three years. So we're not talking about patents. I repeat that we are only talking about the classical type of vaccine, because the MRNA vaccine, which is produced by MODERNA and PFIZER, is a technology that is completely unknown, not the patent, the technology itself in the companies of the rest of Europe and Greece, and therefore, by giving them the patent, would not have many years in front of them and many millions of euros in investment so that they could start making this production. So it's not the patent problem for the vaccines. In your argument, that these companies have been granted state funding and that is why they should have paid them at a lower price, but the 'MODERNA' has actually received very generous funding from the US State and from what I read in the newspapers, because I have not handled this issue, has given the US Government an extremely advantageous price, and the 'PFIZER - BIONTECH' vaccine has also received a smaller funding from the German Government, namely 'BIONTECH', not 'PFIZER' again, as you know, the European Union had bought this vaccine at the lowest price from all other states. In fact, it is estimated that Israel has bought it about four times more expensive than Europe, Britain about 80% more expensive than Europe, the United States 100% more expensive than Europe and Europe, as you can see, far less than Israel and the United Kingdom and the United States. So, the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u120	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u121	Your question should be addressed to the Commissioner for Health of the European Union, not to me. We know, however, that we have taken vaccines at a much lower price, and indeed, if you read relevant press tributes, all the elements of the criticism that have been made in the European Commission, because the European Union was all behind the vaccinations in relation to Israel and the United Kingdom and the United States, it is that the companies put the countries that paid more precisely and the countries that paid cheaper back, such as the European Union. So it was still not a matter of honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u122	You didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u123	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u124	I would therefore like to say: yes, we must find a way to give third world countries who cannot afford to buy these vaccines. It is our duty as humanity, it is our duty as Europeans, our duty as Greeks to find a way for these vaccines to reach the people who cannot obtain them on their own. In this I am absolutely with you. But whether this way is just in the direction of the patent, there I will tell you that it is the easy argument. It's not the patent problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u125	We continue with the ninth under number 788/21-5-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. George Katrugalos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: 'Why does the Constitution not apply to the officials of military justice?' Mr Colleague, you have the floor, and please within two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not intend, Mr Minister, to be inconsistent with the development of my question, not only for reasons of appreciation on your face, but also because it is a matter that we have recently agreed on in the 2019 Review. We have decided that the hundred judges of military justice cannot have a different status than the other judges, and we have also considered that this is a move, with which military personnel are treated as civil officers, as indeed they are, and not as other civilians. I am sure I will limit the question in my prototype to less than time, asking you, Mr President, to give me everything left in my denture because I particularly want to help. I would like to ask you, then, what are the reasons why we have not yet made progress. You know that the Ministry of Justice in his answer to a previous similar question, basically throwing the ball at you by saying that your department has the initiative. You must also tell me what the reasons you seem to have not found yet the time to meet with the organisation of the representation of the military judges. At least, that is what I understood in a recent May resolution. In any case, I can tell you directly that, to help me, I am here to tell us any problems you may have in order to be able to overcome them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Please, too, Minister, be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u128	Yes, I'll try, Mr. President. You are right to raise this question, Mr Colleague, and of course for some reasons, let's say, institutional self-interest, because you are a distinguished constitutionalist, you have played a great role in the review effort launched by the previous government, completed on 25 November 2019, and therefore, based on what is stated in the Review, it is now necessary to assimilate the military with the ordinary judges in the Constitution. First of all, let me tell you that I have met with the physical leadership of military justice, not with the Association of Military Judges. But I've met with them. Therefore, I have formulated from the Ministry's political leadership our intention to finish. Of course, I must say that the main priority we have given, when we took over the Ministry's political leadership, me and the other political leadership, and then the military, was the big issue of the country's Armed Forces. That is what I would say he demanded our full gathering, because the conditions, in order to launch this project, were not the most normal in times of tension in our national issues, but also in the health crisis. In any case, however, we also have to launch what has been decided by the Constitutional Review, namely the uniformity of the military with the ordinary judges. This, as foreseen, will be done by legislation. I look forward to this arrangement coming before this House in the coming summer as soon as possible. At least that's our intention. There's a design log. However, the question of the assimilation, institutional and operational, with the regular judges has several problems, which need to be resolved, and this is the subject of the advancement between the two Ministries, clearly on our own initiative, of the Ministry of National Defence, in a necessary synergy with the Ministry of Justice, in order to resolve the several individual issues that need to be resolved, so that this provision of the review procedure can be carried out. The abolition of provisions implying some form of military status for military judges, who are now treated as regular judges, is certainly the first priority of the proposed legislation. Subsequently, a large number of provisions of the Code of Justice of the Armed Forces should be adapted to the provisions of the Constitution applicable to the ordinary judges, but also a relative consideration and adaptation should be made to the introduction of arrangements concerning their remuneration, which are equivalent to the remuneration of the ordinary judges. Other issues need to be dealt with are: of course, the issue of the staff situation of the judiciaries of the judiciary of the Armed Forces in order to abolish the existing provisions indicating military status. The appointment of the President and the Prosecutor of the Review Court in accordance with the Constitution shall be subject to the limitations of the retirement age of the Office. The issues of the choices made by the President, the prosecutor and the Vice-Presidents of the Review Court, which will now arise by a decision of the Ministerial Council following a recommendation from the Minister of National Defence and not by a decision of the Ministry of Defence that has been in force so far. The question of graduation with the Vice President of the Ice Bay, other than the President, and the Prosecutor of the Revision Court, as it is identical to the President of the Revision Court in accordance with Article 188 of the Military Criminal Code. Requests for the introduction and study of the judicial officers of the Armed Forces Judiciary at the National School of Judiciary, in a new direction, of course, under the same terms and conditions as other judicial officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u129	Minister, excuse me. Keep going on in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u130	I'm hanging up. Furthermore, the maintenance of the graduation of the judiciary officials of the Armed Forces judiciary to the officers for determining the benefits they are entitled, i.e. in terms of their health care and administrative care. So various issues arise, which the law we are working on will regulate, so that military assimilation with regular judges can emerge definitively and definitively. Yes, we had, if you wish, in the context of the organisation of the government project, this development would take place in the first quarter of this year. It will obviously take place at the beginning of the third quarter. I think the delay is a pity. In any case, however, I would like to confirm our intention in the end to what is defined in the Constitutional Review, which, like your party, we have also served, in particular with regard to this special proposal and the regularity of the judges with the military. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u131	Well, thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am against - because I do not think you have deliberately said so and why it is not the subject of the question - the very strong word'resuspension'. Isn't that right? You know that you also held, at the level of physical leadership, the officers we had placed, and you promoted, at the level of political leadership, Mr. Stefani. So I do not think that the situation you received at national level justifies this strong condition. As to the content of your answer to this question, I would like to thank you, because you have made a specific time commitment this time. I think that this commitment, which will have been resolved by the summer of this year, is satisfactory to the interested parties, and it responds to the need at last two years after the Review to resolve an issue that we have unanimously resolved. As regards the issues you have raised, they are obviously matters that need regulation. However, they are mainly technical issues, precisely because the Constitution's directive is the full functional assimilation of military judges to the rest. So the question, which I do not think is easy, but it is certainly technical, is how these general rules of regular justice will be adapted to the specific environment of the Armed Forces. Of all the things you have said, I suspect - do not think that this results from some specific information that I have from the parties involved in military justice - it is a feeling that there may be objections to military personnel in terms of upgrading the salaries of judges, who, obviously, for the reasons I have just said, should have equivalent wages for judges. This, combined with the fact that we know that the remuneration in general of the officers and even of the Chiefs of the Arms is very low, creates - I understand - problems of coexistence in the same area of officials who will be treated differently. Obviously I am not going to plunder right now and ask you to increase the salaries of officers in total. We both know how complex the problem is, not only in terms of the country's financial potential, but also because of the need to interconnect with the single wage. I would tell you to consider - first thought is, I confess hearing you come to my mind, it is not SYRIZA's position, an idea - is it a first step, which would be a step of justice for the highest officials of the Armed Forces, you could consider the ad hoc wage simulation of the three Chiefs of the Arms and the Chief of HNDGS with the salary of the President of the Revision Court. I think that this would overcome internal texture problems, as I said. Finally, I should like to say that I have said from the outset that we do not put this forward for reasons of a micro-group opposition. We believe that the institutional consensus reached at a level must continue and we will be at your disposal, if you do respond to this commitment, to assist you with the technical issues that can be created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u133	Thank you for your time, Mr President. Please, Minister, I would ask you within time because there are many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u134	I will not go far, Mr President, because there is one, so to speak, consensual attitude of the parties, since both sides, while respecting their own role, consented to this product which was the product of the constitutional review, of course, as well as to the revision of Article 96(5), which deals with the assimilation of military and regular judges in everything, as stated in the Constitution. It is therefore reasonable and next that military judges in some way institutionally and functionally disqualify themselves from their military status and acquire the status of ordinary judiciary. This, of course, means that they are now gaining their privileges in the group, in the order of regular judicial officers, but from there on, obviously, it has to do with abandoning various small or large privileges - most of them small - which were the result of their military status. For example, there will emerge themes of conveniences provided or provided to the strains of the Armed Forces, such as accommodation in military homes, entry into military guard clubs, attendance in the MCAs. As you can see, when we are dealing with regular judicial officers, obviously the privileges of military judicial officers are now equal and equal to those of regulars and nothing more than that. These are technical issues, however, which we will certainly be called upon to finalise in the debate that will take place. The working parties from the two Ministries have been set up at political level, at service level and are working on proposals on the table. I do not think it will be a big deal to sort this out definitively. Of course your proposal has an interest and we will look at it very seriously in terms of wage issues. Of course, other ministries, such as those dealing with the insurance and health care of judges, are also involved, but in the context of the expressed willingness to continue and complete it this year, I think we will have no problem in dealing with this and your aid is welcome in this direction. Therefore, yes, we are moving towards the assimilation of regular judiciaries with the military judiciary officials with the adjustments to be made by law that we will bring to the vote in the summer that we are going through, so that the constitutional review of this part is complete and featuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u135	Thank you for your time. We are now continuing with the tenth question under number 789/21-5-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Borough to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Direct risk of shrinking and finally abolishing the university departments of the Prefecture of Itolokarna". You have the time, Mr. Colleague, for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u136	For two? Three, isn't it? Well, Minister, you know very well that I am not underestimating your presence here at all, but a question arises why Mrs. Keramos has never been here in Parliament to explain what she wants to do in regional higher education. Why? Since it's so good what he wants to do and commit, why doesn't he come here and act laurels? Because he's hiding. The answer is obvious, Minister. Here you are attempting a crime against regional higher education. Premeditated crime, given the government's political will and cold crime. If the Minister envyed the glorious Nero of higher regional education to come to the House to act on her laurels. Why do we decide and order this? Why these two pilgrimage papers in the papers? Why the radio monologue? Why? You know very well that the glass in the local communities has spread on this. Possibly, the government considers that it can manage them communally - propaganda, but when can this be done? Minister, for the Law of Gabroglou, we had had a body of meetings involving everything they wanted to be involved in the reflection. This is where we decide and order. Here we move sections, merge sections, eliminate sections and eventually remove sections. What for? Who's a populist? Minister, we have a vision. We have a vision of an education in the region, in this case in Ioannina. An education that is linked to the needs of production, with the needs of intellectuals, with the needs of cultural ones. I personally had proposed to the University of Patras for specific projects that could participate in regional sections so that they could root, not only these, but cultural, spiritual life in the region. So, why are you trying to do this? What's the point? Why do you reserve social desertification, cultural desertification, intellectual dehydration for the region? Why are you doing this? Give the world an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please, Minister, you have three minutes. Please, within your time, you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague, thank you for your question. I shall refer specifically to the sections of the Atolokarnania Prefecture and I shall refer to two specific sections, the Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department and the Plant Production Department. What was the basis for introducing into the Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department? It was 0.9. Not 9 out of 20, 0.9, which is under the unit. We know very well that when you have an import base under a unit, it means you've given three white glues and something you wrote on the fourth, three lines, four. 50% of the importers in this section were based under 5. Plant Production Division, import base 1,7 i.e. not 2. 42% of importers under 5. Mr. Colleague, is this university future of Aetolokarnania? Do we have the impression that we can have university departments in which no one graduates at the end? The graduation rate in these departments is below 10%. What for? Because the kids don't have the academic qualifications to go on. Do we have the illusion that these sections are the diamond of the crown? I can read your mind. Will you tell me why we're not looking to improve them? And I answer: What we are doing now is trying to improve. We have built in the wider region of Western Greece seven rural sections or sections related to the higher level of agronomy, university level. Is it sustainable? All seven cannot be sustainable. Why? Because the candidate students for the country are currently around 100 thousand. In eight to nine years, based on the number of children going to primary school, it will be of the order of eighty-seven thousand and we do not have enough students. We're looking to improve the existing sections and see how we're going to go the next day. This is the future of Aetolocarnania, having good sections that can offer prospects to the candidates, their students and be able to cope with all the need for production in the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] But I'm going to stop here and come back to my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u140	Minister, at all events you are protecting the departments with what is being done today. What is being done today is pushing them into further depreciation if your choice for the minimum import base is taken into account. On the basis of this choice, Minister, these departments will be brought to an end and probably soon to the visible horizon of closure and Mr Papathanases from the region is here and I would like to see his support on this, as well as those from the region, and I would like his testimony not only from Mr Papathanassis. Well, Minister, with your choice - the minimum basis - for the invaders you lead to the most difficult year for education in the pandemic of twenty-nine thousand outside. What luck do you hold on to these kids? What perspective? Go where? And because you equated university degrees with the diplomas of private IEKs, where, Minister, you appear to be cut for the minimum base, but in private IEKs only one entry is enough, and I don't know what kind of Greek one. Did Mr Minister, I say this because Mr Papathanassis is also in front, did the government turn Acheloos into a diversion and now are you trying to turn the committee into a private IEK? And how much will these private IEKs absorb? And who are they going to go there? Here's a question: What do you want? Do you want the "State of Athens" as a state of the few? This is the racing question of the inhabitants of the Greek region and of Ioannina. You must be honest, not you personally, but the government. Will you tell me what I'm looking for? Fly to the haystacks! When a media monologue is dominated by people in Athens who have just heard about the institutions, about the needs of the region, about the needs of Aetolokarnania, the productions, which after a ten-year crisis have had the pandemic and we have the problems. Where is this development coming from? Is he going to fall out of the sky? It is not only that it will come from the universities, but you once said that training must be linked to production needs. Where did production go now and where did regional education go?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u142	I'm trying to be precise in time, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, you give me the opportunity to say two - three things about my own conception of higher education. I'm going to ask a basic question: is this the University of High School? Oh, no! The university can't be the fourth grade. The university is another level of education. To be able to get into this, you have to have some academic minimum, be able to attend the university, get through the exams, get through it with the lessons. If we face the university like the fourth grade, yes, we don't need a minimum import base, because everyone who finishes will go to college. We're interested in how many of those who go to college succeed in graduating. We have about 30% that never ends! Why don't they end up? Some give up because they think they don’t care about the matter they decided to study. The majority, however, drops it because it does not have the academic qualifications to make it through, does not have the basis to be able to study at the university. You referred to twenty-nine thousand people outside the university as a whole. Your President, in his third question to the Prime Minister at the beginning of the question, reports thirty thousand, then states twenty - five thousand. Now you're saying twenty-nine thousand. I'm not going to reason with that. We'll see it in September. I'm sure there'll be people who stay out of campus. What's their future? You said that private IKKs are being entered with simple registration. And in public IEKs enter with simple registration and there are places in public IEKs for those children who will not be able to pass the university. There are sufficient seats and it's just a record. How many people I don't know. We'll see it in September. But there is a prospect in public IEK if they want to continue their studies. I now come to the last point: a minimum basis for introduction and a university future. The minimum import basis will allow us to see the reality with the steps we have been sowing in the country over the years and we will see in many respects how many of these departments can continue the next day and how many of these departments must merge or reform their programme so that we can see what is going to happen with the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u143	We continue with the 11th question under number 794-24-2021 in the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Building a government park in the EBO - PYRCAL complex". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u144	Minister, the issue with the U.S. plant, in what is now known as PYRKAL - and that is what we will call it - in Daphne - Hymittos is an issue that has been employing Greek society for decades. Before 1996 there were proposals, there were thoughts. In 1996 we have a presidential decree and have since been renewed. All of a sudden, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, along with an official of ministers, announced that there would be a government park, a ministries of nine ministries plus the Maximos Mansion. My question today has a very specific purpose, beyond that we disagree with that, apart from that we do not know whether or not this thing is a bubble that will explode or be a need for communication. What we are interested in is this proposal, which is contrary to everything that has been voted on so far - with presidential decrees, with the decisions of the municipalities, with the decisions of twelve bodies, including the Technical Chamber of Greece, the GSEE, the municipalities of the region - if this thing was announced and which, through photorealism, corresponds - to the expression - to a student from the second or third year of the Metsovian Polytechnic University, not further than that, is something that has worked, worked or announced just like that. I would just like to ask you, and I would like to be specific if there are studies, premeditated traffic, change of regulations, environmental and regeneration study, archaeological study, in order to save its character, building study and technical study for the buildings to be built, if there is a study to change the conditions under which they are built in the area and, finally, whether there is an economic and technical study to relocate the production structure of the NSA in Lavrio, as has been said. I would like, if you can, to be specific. It is an issue to which we may disagree as to what is going to happen, but to the questions I think it is an obligation for the government to answer if there are statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor. I would ask you to be within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be within the time given by the Rules of Procedure. Mr Muzala, you have served as Minister for Immigration Policy and you have also served as Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Interior. So, starting with, I would like to tell you that, having these positions, you certainly had moved into the premises of many ministries, and you certainly have knowledge of the situation in several building blocks where public officials work and at the same time, our fellow citizens are served in common. So, starting with this and trying to answer most of your questions, because they are enough, I would like to say that it is clearly not a communication firework at all, but a realistic plan, a plan announced by the Prime Minister and the Government, which is an intensive one, so that you can do it. Because you are referring to the opposite of society and you, in any case, and SYRIZA, I would like to see the specific features of this project in order to determine whether the proposal, which has been tabled, is contrary to what you are proposing. First of all, I would like to say that this area is not, as you mentioned here in your question, a hundred seventy acres, but it is a hundred and fifty-five acres. Of the hundred and fifty acres, because there has been a great debate, I would like to say that the hundred and twenty acres from the hundred and fifty-five acres will become a green space and space and squares and playgrounds, so that it can be attributed to the local society. As you know, Mr Muzala, it is very important what we render to local society. We might be lucky. I know you're staying in New Izmir. Next to you, you have a nice park, just like I have it. There, then, the residents, who are staying right next door, do not have the luck of us having a very nice park next to us, but they have walls raised up ten meters, hiding the air and space for their children, they cannot use this space and, above all, it is an area that operates with a certain risk, because you know that in the urban fabric the construction of the ammunition is something that is not appropriate. And because in a piece of your question - and I'm being chased by time - you ask what will happen to the Hellenic Defence Systems, I submit to the House - there is, of course, just to be able to read it - the answer of the Minister of National Defence, who speaks exactly about the continuation of the operation. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Nikolaos Papathanases presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] And it is very important that we understand something: When we have a space of three thousand acres in Lavrio where the company "Greek Defence Systems" can be relocated and operated and the company "Greek Defence Systems" is developed and assigned to society, I would like to tell you that this space, because in your question, you are referring to whether or not it will remain public, this space will remain public. 78% will be attributed to society in green and recreational areas, and the rest will be a point where our fellow citizens can best serve and which public officials will actually work in buildings worthy of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time and my colleague. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u148	Minister, this is not the day for the strong political controversy on this immunity that the government intends to build in PYRKAL. I would like to tell you, however, that speaking very beautifully, poetically almost in favour of a park, what you announced is the abolition of a park, which the region, together with the central governments, has been dreaming since 1996, as proposals are being made and they are waiting for how and how this will be attributed to society. What I will keep from you today - and I really don't feel good, but it's objective - is that you have nothing to testify to us. You don't have to testify to us for a technical study or a premeditated study, as you want to say. You don't have to present us with archaeological study, traffic study, cost-benefit relationship. You have nothing to testify except photorealistics. You have told the interview you gave later after the visit that the plan is that in the first half of the year there will be interministerial approval, the second expropriation, the start of construction will be in 2023, the start of 2025-2026. Mr Kavalakis said that in addition to the expropriations the PPPs will proceed, but the competitive process lasts for twenty-four months. I would like to believe that there is a discrepancy here, even if anyone accepts the intentions that we do not accept and that we will combat them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You carry thirty - five thousand people every day in an area where citizens are thirty thousand. Transporting the traffic load unbelievable in two arteries where many years already created the inseparable. You're pulling out a park. You don't make a park. The substance again is: we are the Greek Parliament. We need studies to convince that what you are saying is true and it is not a fictional eruption or a morbid communication view, which I do not give you personally, and I would like you to understand that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr Colleague, very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Muzala, I started by saying that 78% of the site will be attributed to local society. And you know, it's very important when we start a debate and a dialogue, see what's ahead of you. You referred to decades of planning for something that has never been done and you did not ask the local society if it can live, because you certainly have visited the area and certainly have seen the pavement and the wall that surrounds, if you like, this area and how much it restricts people's breath. And you also know very well that one of the key elements is how we deal with building complexes, because you know it's not Athens. You need to see it as a function set. You need to see car traffic, if served by subway, etc. So I say to you that when something starts - and that is what we did - there was clearly the feasibility study, clearly there was an initial study, so that we can see how many buildings will be relocated and specifically mentioned - and I think you know very well - that a hundred and twenty-seven buildings are to be released, which a hundred and twenty-seven buildings, Mr Muzala, really give a catastrophic imprint on the environment, because they have no energy upgrades. And I mentioned, starting with my speech, telling you that as Minister you have visited these buildings. You know very well with which shells work, who their skeleton is, what their heating bodies are, how exactly oil consumption they have and what print they give exactly. You also know very well that this whole diffuse situation within the center of Athens also creates a traffic problem, but at the same time it also creates contamination. So what we want to do is a bioclimatic system of buildings, which I would like to say is that they reduce their print, that is, what is emitted and breathe every day - you are a doctor and you are well aware of that - by 85%. In other words, it is completely changing the print that the public administration gives the environment. So you must see that this project was a project that should have been done, as you said, ten years earlier and it was not done. So we've given the timeline. This work is beginning and will begin just as we have said and will be done with a public-private partnership. It's something that's going to remain in public. It will be built and supported and maintained by the contractor, so that we can provide the right services not only to public officials - who are actually in there all day long and breathing the air that these buildings have, which are too old - but also to our fellow citizens who deserve better service. I would therefore really like you to think again and welcome this act of relocation and the yield of a hundred and twenty acres in the society that they own and which we have limited behind guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. We continue with the first with number 787/19-5-2021 timely question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Ioannina, New Democracy, Maria - Alexandra Head to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "EIO building in the Vineyards of Ioannina". Madam Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes. Please within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in Ioannina, a two-storey building has been built in order to house the Regional Public Health Laboratory of Ioannina. His elevation began in 2003 and was completed in 2006. The property is EGEI property and in the last fourteen years, i.e. from 2006 until today, it has remained untapped, as it has never worked. Various proposals have been made in the past, such as the decentralised administration, from the region of Epirus, from the EKT, even the 6th EKT, but unfortunately without results. The interest of local society and local bodies is strong and stated, calling for the benefit of society. Today, recognizing the special and exceptional needs of the pandemic we are experiencing, I believe that the conditions have matured, which make it necessary to use this building. For example, I would mention that it could work either as a new vaccination centre to deal with the pandemic or even the already existing vaccination lines of the Ioannina Health Centre could be transferred there in order to decongested the Ioannina Health Centre, since it is associated with the CPMs, the Disability Certification Centres. This was helping to decongested fundamentally, but also to help the citizens visited by the Ioannina City Health Centre and for other reasons than vaccination. In view of the needs of local society and of the positive results obtained from the development of this building, and with the assurance of the EGE's intention to grant the building to the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a year, as reflected in a letter from the EGE to the Chief of State on 10 May, I would like to ask you whether you intend to grant this building for use in order to benefit the citizens and the local society of Ioannina, in which direction and whether you have a specific timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u153	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor, please, in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chapter, as you have rightly pointed out, this building belongs to the ownership of the National Public Health Agency, which has the first and last word on any possible use of it. I keep your proposal for a vaccination centre, but let me say this: EGE was operating there a regional public health laboratory, where there are other such laboratories throughout Greece and the aim of this EGE administration is these buildings, these laboratories being upgraded and relaunched - because they were abandoned - to offer health services. And we are in agreement, so we can see how the best way these buildings can be exploited. Nevertheless, in response to the needs of the region and the needs created by the pandemic, in consultation with both the Ministry of Health and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, the EGE has expressed its intention and can grant this building for a certain period of time either for a vaccination centre or for anything else. A special step - perhaps I inform you - of the competent authorities, technical services in the health region have visited the building for autopsy and we expect the relevant finding, as to the suitability for its use, for which will be requested and any necessary actions. So, in any case, the intention of the EGE and the Ministry of Health is to make use of this building, first of all, for the purpose for which it has been created and, of course, once the conditions allow it and the pandemic, to have other activities in this centre. By the way, because you referred to the establishment of a vaccination centre, I would like to reassure you, as regards vaccination in the Ioannina Regional Unit. Eighty-four thousand seven hundred eighty-one fellow citizens have so far been vaccinated, of whom fifty-six thousand thirty-five with the first dose of the vaccine and twenty-nine thousand eight hundred thirty with both doses of the vaccine. The rate of vaccination coverage in the population in Ioannina is 50.5%, 33.3% with at least one dose and 17.8% is fully vaccinated. In Ioannina, the proportion of the population vaccinated with a single dose or scheduled date is 43%, while in Greece this figure is 44%. So it's too close to these numbers. There are twenty-one vaccination lines in nine vaccination sites with a daily capacity of seven hundred and thirty-six vaccinations. Since, of course, it is necessary to increase the vaccination lines in order to serve more people, we are here to see how we do this, whether in the existing health structures or using other structures of the Ministry of Health. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Minister. Please, my colleague, have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I know, Minister, that the building has visited a step by step to see the suitability. I welcome the EGE's intention to make use of it together with the rest that had taken place during the same period in the country and I think that - ours certainly did not - the rest never work. So, surely a plan for how to make use of these buildings is expected by local communities. From there on, the EMCDDA in its document states that he intends to grant it to the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 1 June. But tomorrow's June 1st. So would you have something more specific to tell us about whether to get in or not to get the key to the door and what to get in? New vaccination lines, I understand, according to the information you have given us, do not need at least for the moment in the region, although they exist, I would like to tell you, our fellow citizens, who go to neighboring Thesprotia or even to Corfu to be vaccinated more directly than the dates that are currently coming out in the city of Ioannina. Furthermore, we would like you to tell us whether you intend to be given to the health centre for the decongestion of the health centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kefala, as I have said, vaccination in the Regional Unit of Ioannina is progressing smoothly, and indeed, the city of Ioannina and unity is in the same numbers as in the rest of Greece. Now I do not think that citizens of the Ioannina are going to neighbouring prefectures in order to speed up their vaccination. There are appointments available. The availability of vaccines is increasing, and it makes sense for someone who can have an activity in a neighbouring prefecture to go out and do their vaccine perhaps some days faster. There are no delays or appointments that take a long time to close them. Indeed, tomorrow is changing, we have 1 June, but I told you in any case does not mean that tomorrow the vaccination line will work if necessary. We all know very well that the operation of one or more vaccination lines is a multifactorial issue, because it is mainly about the distribution of vaccines across the territory. This is a difficult project which, of course, we are carrying out and depending on the availability of dates or increased demand for vaccines in the region, certainly there will be planning to operate more vaccination lines. By the way, I would remind you that our original schedule was one thousand eighteen vaccination centres throughout the country, and at the moment we have exceeded the thousands of five hundred vaccination lines at ground level, while in May and June we are expecting a record of vaccinations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Minister, for the time. We continue with the second with number 784/18-5-2021 topical question of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Chania - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavaki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The non-incorporation of monoclonal antibodies into the country's therapeutic strategy is a criminal inertia of the Ministry of Health". Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, because I have talked too many times about monoclonal antibodies, I have been thinking today about where to start. The solution gave me a friendly site, the "Liberal" - you all know - which cannot be blamed for anti-governmentism and in which a lady, Alexia Svolou, wrote this article, entitled "When will the monoclonal antibodies come to Greece, who are concerned". It is a ‘philipian’ in favour of the use of monoclonal antibodies. I'll use my first talk to say some things from the article. It says, therefore, in this article: "The third wave of the pandemic is at a stage of declining, that the number of intangible patients is falling..." etc. And it continues: “And yet a big question still lies about when the monoclonal antibodies that have appeared in those patients will be made available in Greece. Clear image we still don't have on when to strengthen the patronage against COVID with these valuable weapons, i.e. with drugs that have proved effective and in hospitalized patients who need oxygen and in patients with mild illness and high risk of complications, but also as preventive treatment at home, which is the new trend that is being adopted massively in America." And it continues: "On the other side of the Atlantic, monoclonal antibodies are now granted as prophylaxis, as passive vaccination... in the European Union they are not available for all but for few lucky patients who are hospitalized by hospitals that are scientific centers...". In fact, an information, which I do not know whether and whether it is true, says: "These protocols include the cocktail of the two monoclonal antibodies "casirimab" and "imdevimab" "REGENERON"..." - one of the three monoclonal companies - "...that is what the former American President..." - which we know - "... and Archbishop Jeronym, which has been approved by the FDA." And it continues: 'Thematic opinion in Europe has also received from March last year the cocktail of the antibodies of 'ELI LILLY', 'bamlanivimab' (bamlanavimab) and 'etesevimab'...'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Recently it also received ‘GlaxoSmithKline’, ‘sotrobimab’. So right now there are three companies that have monoclonal antibodies. There are a number of studies - here they are, you will have seen them many of which are phase 3 studies - which now prove to reduce by 70% - 85% the need for hospitalisation and deaths.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u161	Please, Mr. Colleague, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u162	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Interestingly, countries which have so far approved exceptional authorisations are Canada, the Czech Republic, Germany, Israel, Italy, Hungary, Sweden, the United Arab Emirates, the United States of America. And the article continues: "In addition, the only treatment with bamlanivimab" (bamlanvimab)... - the 'ELI LILLY' medicine - 'is licensed for emergency use in Rwanda and Morocco and 'ELI LILLY' in collaboration with the 'GATES' institution provides doses of antibodies... without cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Colleague, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u164	He continues the article: "On its side, REGENERON works with the Swiss pharmaceutical industry "ROCHE", to increase production...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Comrade, please, you will continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u166	Wait a minute, Mr. President. "Their preparation looks expensive. In Greece it was estimated at the peak stage that we would need..." - because we wouldn't put it in the tomato salad too...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u168	Wait a minute, Mr President, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u169	Mr Colleagues, all colleagues have finished in two minutes. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u170	It was estimated, then, that we need two thousand doses a month, that is, fifteen thousand doses in the five - month elevation we have spent. That is, with 2,000 euros to go, we have 30 million euros. If we take it with a 1,000 euros, because that's how much the monodox did, it makes us 15 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u172	So the question is why you haven't brought it back since we've been calling it to you since November.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor. I would ask you to be in your time, as do other colleagues earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Polakis, let me put things in one order and speak on the basis of the findings of science and the procedures for the approval of medicines. I hope you understand me. You're a doctor and you've also been nursed at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u175	I'm a doctor, I remind you. You're not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Polakis, let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Colleague, I won't allow it for anyone. Please! There's a...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u178	And I won't allow insults!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Polakis, the Minister will speak and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u180	Because you're a doctor, you should know. And because you're accusing us of criminal negligence, I'm going to charge you with criminal ignorance as a doctor who doesn't know what's going on in the world with the monoclonals. Let me explain and I'll see you in dentistry. You're asking us if we're gonna get them. Of course, we will bring them, which we have said many times too, from the Step forward in this Chamber. You know, we have said that Greece is participating in the common European supply of monoclonal antibodies and we will bring them when they are licensed. Do not confuse the emergency use with the marketing authorisation. Secondly, I believe that you have confused the vaccines with monoclonal antibodies because in your question you called the monoclonal antibodies as "patient vaccination".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u181	No, I, the lady who wrote the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u182	Concentrate the protection of vaccines with the treatment of antibodies. There is a substantial difference between vaccines and monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonic antibodies have a “stability window” that is very narrow and for benefit, patients should receive treatment at a certain time. One issue that has arisen in recent months is their effectiveness over the mutant strains that dominate the community, resulting in concrete shapes, including those that have been authorised to use urgently in America, to be withdrawn from the market. Thus, while the FDA in America initially approved monoclonal antibodies, after a two-month period, suspended this authorisation on the grounds that they are not effective in new mutations. Therefore, in any case, and in order to be able to successfully and targeted, we must identify the mutation carried by the patient before receiving appropriate therapy. And this identification cannot always be made in time for the shape to be given as soon as possible. As studies have shown, its taking at an advanced stage of disease is likely to be dangerous. This is intravenous administration to patients who do not need hospitalisation. Recently, there is also a pre-published version of the "Northwell Health", the largest service provider in New York, which did not show any benefit from the use of monoclonal antibodies therapies. I don't blame them, I didn't say we wouldn't bring them. I repeat, we'll bring them in when they have a license. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Generally in Europe treatment is under assessment by the European Medicines Agency. There is a positive scientific opinion, but it is not a marketing authorisation. And you know very well that the system in America is different in relation to Europe and that it is another 'crude use' and another 'trafficking licence'. Even the Germany mentioned in your question gives the monoclonal antibodies to specific population groups when they are posing the test in transplant patients under inhibition therapy, chemotherapeutic patients, and in patients with autoimmunes treated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u183	Minister, you will have to continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I shall also use my term of denial, because this is an important matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u185	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u186	These groups have long been promoted for vaccination and real safety is to be vaccinated immediately. So, is the treatment of antibodies for everyone? Of course not, something you know, Mr Polakis, because you are a doctor. At least you should know. And surely this treatment is not about patients who need hospital treatment, but about those who may need treatment. And, of course, I will say one more thing that neither the article you mentioned nor the one that has been widely mentioned. Their availability is limited and the quantities are currently committed to America. And it is the European agreement in which the country that guarantees us access to these medicines. I'll say something, Mr. Polakis. Assuming we brought them in. Do you know what you'd tell us? You would tell us that we are experimenting on people, because these drugs are still in a 'Fassis III' study. They haven't been licensed. You would tell us that we give 1,500 and 2,000 euros to the multinational companies to bring these monoclonals. Wait a minute. The monoclonal antibodies will come. I'd like to remind you of one more thing. The license on the one monoclonal was given...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u187	Minister, you've reached six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u188	...by studying "Fase II", where a hundred and seven patients improved to the three hundred participating in the study. The second company has studied eight hundred patients, and the clinical studies are still on the "Fasure III" that is completed, and millions of citizens around the world have made the marketing vaccine that has been tested.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u190	The Minister has raised a great deal of issues and I will ask for a small tolerance. First, you mix lies with half-truths. Listen, Mr. Contozamani. Extreme approval is given by the monoclonal, extraordinary approval of vaccines as well. And the extraordinary approval is until 2023, when the full size of the analysis needs to be completed. Wait and you'll answer me. Secondly, at the moment in Greece we have reached the 12 thousand ninety-five deaths. I'll talk to numbers. Four thousand seven hundred thirty-eight were the deaths in 2020 and seven thousand two hundred sixteen are in 2021. You haven't done what we call you since November. And don't be afraid, we wouldn't accuse you of bringing these medicines. We have other things to do. We don't blame you for that. Also, you're hiding something else. Did the company 'ELI LILLY' ask you to block quantities for December - January, at least a thousand instalments a month and you never responded? Because that's what happened. Secondly, the other countries that have brought them and are currently using them, do they not go with European regulations? When the European Agency gave its approval at the end of February - early March, why didn't you use it then, to save some of the deaths from the thousands of five hundred eighteen deaths in March, the two thousand two hundred eighteenth of April, the one thousand six hundred and seventy three in March? And you're saying a lie. What he removed, he says, they took it back. They took Bamlanivimab back, which showed 70% efficacy, because the combination of bamlanivimab and etesevimab has 85% efficacy. And here I can say two or three other numbers and answer me. With today's figures, two thousand four hundred seventeen have left the ICU. If we calculate a survival rate of 70% in ICU, this means that three thousand four hundred and fifty-two patients have been introduced since the beginning of the ICU pandemic, if we calculate 30% mortality. If we count 50%, you reach the five thousand, which is not 50% the mortality of those who enter the ICU even with a coronary. So where did the rest of them die, Mr. Contozamani? We have asked you three hundred thousand times and you do not answer that question. And note, again with today's evidence, the sixty-five years old and over who have died is ten thousand thirty-five, the forty-four years old are a thousand eighty-seven, seventy-one, eighteen to thirty-nine, eighty-six, six, one to seventy-seven years old is three. We wouldn't give it everywhere, Mr. Contozamani. That's what we've been saying since the first day. We would give it to those who are older and have sinister diseases to develop badly. In other words, the population that would be directed mainly was the sixty-two thousand nine hundred who are over sixty-five years old and have been positive since the beginning of the pandemic in our country. And from them, not everyone. At the worst we would need fifteen, seventeen thousand doses of monoclonal antibodies from November to today! That's what you should have done, as other countries have done, and we'd be saving! If you think that 12 thousand ninety-five dead are a success, it's not for me! It's not for me! We've lost the game with that story! And because they're hiding it from the "Petsot" media, 12 thousand are people, they're not numbers! That's why I've been calling you since November! And for the first time, you're saying you're bringing them! So far, you said they had no approval! And the ten countries that I read to you that they give, with the EMA, don't they? What are they going with? How many times before we brought innovative medicines - I did it to more than twenty and thirty patients - who had been proven and had only FDA approval for cancer patients, for children, etc.Huh? Now why don't you do it? You'll spend 300-350 million on the vaccines! The 50 million in the worst of cases -30 million would be - that's what you'd spend on, that's what you're being horny about? You just have other things in your mind and that's why you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u191	All right, thank you, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u192	And it is unacceptable that the Committee on Infectious Substances, which recommended that you do not bring them up yet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please, Minister, you have the floor. I would remind you that you have taken time from your denology from your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u194	Are you talking about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u195	Not you, the Minister. Just be in time. There are other colleagues here who expect you to respond within the framework. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u196	Mr Polakis, I will start from the end you referred to the Committee on Infectious Substances. The infectious ones have said to bring them in. That is why we are taking part in the common European procurement. And it is our involvement - I repeat - which ensures that we have access to them, because their production is limited and the quantities are frozen in America and through the European Union we will have access to the medicine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u197	Why didn't you answer the "ELI LILLY" company that told you to commit quantities for December - January?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u198	Let me talk. But each "ELI LILLY"... Yeah, make deals with the companies to get priority when they're coming. And all these companies are involved in the European procurement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u199	Why didn't you answer when they asked you in November to commit a thousand doses a month?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u200	Please! Mr. Polakis, you spoke seven minutes in your dentistry. Let the Minister speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u201	Looks like I'm talking to deaf people!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u202	But I don't know who's talking to! I tell you to let him talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u203	Mr Polakis and Mr LILLY have also spoken with 'REGENERON' and with 'GlaxoSmithKline Medivir'. With all the companies we have spoken to see how the production of monoclonals and the approval process is progressing in order to have them in the country. And we asked for early access programs. And because you referred to the fact that you were bringing cancer patients and other patients from America, these medicines were approved! This is where we're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u206	Stop it, Mr. Polakis! Please! It can't be done! You can't behave like this! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Polakis, let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u208	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Polakis, you can't behave like this! You spoke at ease, seven and five minutes, i.e. 12 minutes, in correspondence with your other SYRIZA colleagues who spoke two and three minutes. Let the Minister speak, so that the process can proceed. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u210	It's very serious...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u211	The seriousness is assessed by everyone as they wish. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u212	Medicines that have a marketing authorisation in America can be imported into Greece via IFET - you know - since they have not been approved by the European Medicines Agency. We're talking about temporary permission for emergency use. And something else is confusing. You say the vaccines have been authorised for temporary use. They haven't been authorized for temporary use, Mr. Polakis. They have a 'conditional' marketing authorisation in the European Union. They have a license, not a license. 'Conditional' means that each year they will be evaluated. It's a license, it's not an emergency license. Yes, some countries took them for urgent use, etc. Do you know what happened to one of them? They took them to a hospital and the rest of the country is up or they don't give them to everyone. We said, it's not for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u213	Obviously, it's not!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u214	Be patient. The authorisation procedure shall be completed. We'll get their permission, and we have ensured that these medicines come. And a word, Mr President, about deaths. It is not pleasant to talk about deaths, but unfortunately, we had deaths in this pandemic, not just us, but all the countries. Mr. Polakis, you're flying numbers. You always like it. I'm sorry to say it, but you think you have the only truth. You always fly numbers. Tell the denominator. You're telling us about death. Greece is a 20th third country in Europe in number of deaths. Unfortunately, we had deaths. But let's see the comparative numbers. It's not pleasant to talk about death. And still the excess mortality is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u215	The world average...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u216	...per million people. Look at the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u217	...dead per million people, do you know him, Mr. Contozamani?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u218	Learn to read the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u219	Do you know, Mr. Contozamani? How many are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u220	It's not enough for a number.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u221	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u222	The world average is four hundred forty-four deaths per million population, and here we have a thousand percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Polakis, this isn't just the House for you here! He's waiting for another colleague of yours in front of to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u224	You're talking about me so I don't listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u225	That's what I had in mind. Don't sound like you guys don't sound! You think everyone thinks they'll cover you not to talk. That's the only problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u226	I ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u227	But, Mr Polakis, I am not going to allow this process to continue. I'm not gonna let you talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u228	Reply to 'four forty-four' and 'thousand-thousand-thousand'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u229	I'm not going to return this to you. Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u230	Tell me about the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u231	Please, Mr. Polakis! Please, too! You asked the Minister... There's a procedure. You're not respecting anything, especially your colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u232	The racing effort...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u233	I know, I know. That's old times. You've been through it before. They don't work for me. Mr. Polakis, please! You can't behave like this! You can't behave like this! It is unacceptable that a SYRIZA Member should not allow anyone to speak other than that. You're judging the way. This cannot go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u235	The numbers will be heard. In the two numbers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u236	This cannot continue, Mr Polakis! I will not allow you to continue. What you know won't be doing here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u237	It's unacceptable what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u238	It is unacceptable how you continue. It is unacceptable that you continue! I'm not going to allow you to. I can't allow you to!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u240	The numbers will be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u241	The numbers here you've been talking about a hundred times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u242	In the two numbers, answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u243	What are you doing? Fascism? Is that a fascism? You had fifteen minutes to talk! We've given you 15 minutes! Fifteen minutes! Would you mind stopping and talking to the Minister? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u244	The two numbers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Polakis, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u246	Please, Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u247	You say a lot. You always say a lot, and whoever says a lot loses the measure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u248	Numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u249	But please! I'll stop the process. Minister, please, finish it! We cannot have this House for twenty-five minutes on a question that Mr Paulakis is causing to play and cause problems for other colleagues. I'm not going to allow it! Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u250	To reassure you, Mr Polakis, we are discussing with all the companies that are going to bring the monoclonal antibodies under the Europe Agreement. I don't know if you're interested in a particular one. I'm telling you, we're all talking. In any case, I repeat, to conclude, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u251	I'm telling you why you haven't brought them so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u252	Because they don't have a license!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u253	How did the others get along?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u254	You see, they're retiring...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Polakis, why are you acting like this? What kind of way is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u256	Because I'm right, that's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u257	Why do you behave in this undemocratic way?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u258	Because I'm right and she doesn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u259	And the Golden Dawn said that he was right. I won't allow you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u260	Listen to me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u261	No, I can't hear you. I'm telling you one thing, stop it. The way you talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u262	Take back what you said now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u263	I don't get anything back! I don't get anything! Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u264	Take it back...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u265	No, I'm not!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u266	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u267	No, I'm not giving him to you! There is no such procedure! There is no such procedure! You can't go on like this! You're unacceptable! You can't go on like this! For 30 minutes the House must tolerate you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u268	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u269	All right! You called Simeon. He was the Minister of Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u270	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Polakis, you're not allowed. You're unacceptable! What you're doing is not allowed! You are the only Member who has a problem with the parliamentary procedure. I understand what you're gonna say now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u272	You're on an orderly service, and it's embarrassing. You've run tests, they'll translate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u273	You want to tell me something about Simeon Kedicoglou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u274	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u275	You called Simeon Kedicoglou. Now is that your problem? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u276	I'm done, Mr. President. I've been through everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u277	We continue with the discussion of the fourth under No 797/24-2021 topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To serve the Rhodes Hospital directly with anestheticists and all the permanent staff required". You have the floor, my colleague, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, every week we discuss problems and serious deficiencies in hospitals and primary care units on the islands, which demonstrates that 'Blue Freedom' is not only built on vaccinations, because the islanders remain hostages of a health system that prevents them from having access to care and care not based on modern needs, but not even on the elementary ones. This has now become urgent and the issue of the dangerous subsidization of the Rhodes Hospital and it is necessary to cover all posts with permanent staff. You know well that in the organization of the Rhodes Hospital to safely operate the surgical unit, ten anaesthetics are provided. At the moment, only one of the three anaesthetics who serve - the number already much less than necessary - has remained after the resignation of one and because of the second disease. Under these circumstances, the operation of the surgery has become almost impossible even for emergencies. On the basis of this, therefore, they are at least a challenge to the statement made by the commander of the second RCM on his recent visit to the island, who showed, in substance, a solution to the problem of the lack of anesthesiologist the circular on the basis of which the reduction of regular surgery has been imposed. By insisting on the government's criminal policy on health, it proposed a subsequent solution to transfer from the already subordinated Piraeus and Athens Hospitals. Otherwise, he assured that the Rhodes Hospital is operating well in relation to the other hospitals on the islands, which are in a worse state. We too recognise that this is certainly a convenient comparison. But we would suggest that you do not repeat it here, because in addition to the raw confirmation of the situation which prevails in the health structures of the islands, they are at least inconsistent with the requirements, when we talk about a hospital which, beyond the permanent population, needs to treat the two thousand tourists who spend the summer months on the island. So based on the period and conditions of the pandemic, this subsecution of the Rhodes Hospital is a crime. So we are asking you what measures the government will take to direct the hospital with anesthetics and to operate safely and regularly and emergency surgery, and of course, to serve with all the necessary medical and nursing personnel in the hospital and to ensure that the medical assistants of all departments are immediately permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Konnakas, I would like to make it clear first of all that hospitals and health centres in the national health system operate safely, given the circumstances. Deficiencies exist and there are. We are all aware of this and are all trying to cover up these shortcomings. However, given the numbers and the staff available to us, our health structures are working safely and we have strengthened all structures during the pandemic period and we have said that we have been given the opportunity to do so. I would remind you that specifically for medical staff we have so far published four notices in total of two thousand three hundred sixty-four medical posts in various specialties and continue in June with the proclamation of six hundred more medical staff posts. For the Hospital of Rhodes, we have announced a total of twenty-nine posts, of which twenty-three concern the three invitations to tender in 2020 and six in February 2021. Of the three 2020 calls for posts in the Hospital of Rhodes, 12 doctors are appointed, four are in the process of issuing their appointment in the Glossary of the Official Journal of the Government and their appointments are expected in the next few days. Especially in the specificity of anesthetics, where there is indeed a problem not only in Rhodes, but throughout the territory, five positions have been published, two to a degree of caretaker IV, two to a degree of caretaker I and one to a degree of manager, two of whom were barren and two were completed by appointment and one is expected to complete and the appointment of the anestheticist is expected in the next few days. At Rhodes Hospital there is indeed a question of staffing anesthetics. We cannot prevent any resignations, nor give any authorisations under the law to staff. And in order to ensure the proper functioning of the hospital, we have taken concrete action. First, the appointment of an anestheticist from a post opened in February 2021. The appointment CVT has been published and is expected to take up service in the following days. Secondly, it was implemented by the administration of the second health region, a plan for the movement of anaesthetics from other hospitals for specific periods. Third. in collaboration with the Greek Anesthesiological Society we are in search of anaesthetics of permanent and/or subsidiary positions or positioning from private doctors. In any case, we will take advantage of all the possibilities we have and know that the speciality of anesthetics is a speciality that young doctors do not choose, with the result that there is a lack of anesthetics and that is the main reason why we give incentives and recently we have legislated to exclude anaesthetics from the obligation to serve a countryside. This is not how young anesthetics are bound by and can more easily claim their entry into the National Health System. Very soon we will be able to legislate on the revision of the status of feral regions by giving additional incentives, as we have already announced. What I would like to emphasise and close, Mr President, is that continuous efforts are being made at all levels so that we can solve problems rather than perpetuate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. Mrs. Konnakka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u282	Minister, in the light of the circumstances, do you think it is a solution, is it safe for the hospitals to close, slam a hole, open another island or in other cases, take the same island from one health structure and move to another by elevating the inhabitants of the area? Is it a solution, and doesn't it perpetuate the problem of transporting the doctors to do the Ping Pong ball from one hospital to another? Did you really wonder what is it that forces doctors to resign from permanent posts, not to take office? It is not only the cost of living in Rhodes, for example, often dissuasive, but the main reason that actually discourages doctors from taking over or pushing to resignation - and the example of anestheticist who resigned to Rhodes to go to the private health unit is the same as the working conditions they face, but also the risks. It is also the risk that they are faced when working without medics, without help with what this may entail, with exhaustive conditions and each time taking the risk of medical errors and others. We, of course, say that you will not be able to prevent sick leave in need of the staff, but when, for example, all the staff of the Rhodes Hospital are working in conditions of unbearable and inhumane pressure, when they are given 12 000 days off, is it not expected that the lack of this valuable and necessary time for their rest has an effect on their own health, which ultimately leads to the disease of many of them? So, when under these circumstances, the hospitals are eventually turned into those of a disease and you say that the solution is not to become regular medical treatments, do you not at the same time push the world it needs to heal, operate in the private large clinics of the island and Athens? So, is it not confirmed that it is not possible in these circumstances to turn, in fact, into a place for the private sector, excluding and interrupting the possibility of the population having access to surgery and other necessary treatments? That is why it is confirmed that the proposal made by the JRC at the beginning of the day to order all private health units is the one that would help to integrate them into a single design and address the pandemic that not all the other necessary treatments that are valuable, which cannot only be given to anyone who has to hand in the pocket and who can put their lives at risk when they are deprived of these benefits. So you understand that this policy of supposedly harmonious coexistence of the public with the private sector, which ultimately deprives this possibility, unfortunately not only in the pandemic period, but it is a situation that over time experiences in the islands only forced on payment and those who can be cured for such serious diseases.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u283	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Konnakkas, I do not think that they really respond to what you say. One does not go to the private sector because he has refused or cannot do a surgery or action in the public sector. There have been delays or some planned surgery due to the pandemic that could be made later, so that the National Health System is ready to deal with the pandemic and we are slowly returning to normality. Let me refer again to the substance of your question that is the anesthetics in Rhodes. I would expect to hear a specific proposal from you, because there are no controversies, political or party here. The health of the population is above every party label and we should all help with our proposals to find solutions to these problems. I have referred to concrete proposals and our decisions which have to do both with the adequate staffing of the Rhodes Hospital and with the resolution of the burning issue of anaesthetics in this hospital, as well as the issue of anaesthetics throughout the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u285	We are now continuing with the seventh under No 800/24-2021 topical question by the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "What are the government's intentions to incorporate into the heavy and unhealthy health of doctors - nursing staff, etc.? and self-taxation of newspapers;’. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u286	It is the last timely question, but not the last question, Mr President. Minister, there has been many times a debate on the need to integrate into the heavy and unhealthy medical staff, physico-therapists, paramedical specialists, a series of specialities working in the ESS at all health establishments, at the EAW and in the care units of the elderly or, more generally, in social care. This debate has also been done to a large extent with society. It is really something that the whole world wants to go through the applause reward in a particular political act of justice. It also follows from the point of view of the previous debate on good industrial relations and incentives for the service of public hospitals, since all this applies to the private sector but does not apply to the public sector. It is therefore a matter that also relates to the will of people to serve the public system. There are two ways of dealing with the heavy and unhealthy matter. Or by legislation directly - we have tabled at least ten times the amendment and it has not been accepted - or the classic procedure of the Ministry of Labour. This means setting up a committee based on Law 3863 and 3865, a finding and a decision of the Minister. You need to choose which one you want and move on. It's your Ministry of Labour's conspiracy because it's up to the Ministry of Labour. Of course, I have also raised the question that is in line with the Ministry of Finance regarding the taxation of doctors' newspapers. You know that unfortunately many times doctors pay more tax than they get from on-calls. It's a lot of numbers. Selfish will help in justice. On these two points I would like you to reply to me so that I too can give you further thoughts on the basis of your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u287	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, your party does indeed come back to the issue of heavy and unhealthy. You know the matter very well and because of your term of office at the Ministry of Labour. You know that they are part of the heavy and unhealthy professions. Indeed, you know, we in the Ministry of Health could be a good one and move on to legislation which I do not know whether it would go ahead. You are an experienced parliamentary officer. Economic questions are also raised from the vote on a provision. We didn't do it and we won't. We don't want to make people hopeless. When we have something to say, we'll say it. I do not hide from you that both the Minister and I, as the Ministry of Health, regard the request to join heavy and unhealthy, but there are specific procedures to be followed. This is the second procedure you said about the setting-up of a committee. Of course, it follows from the opinion of the Social Security Council and the process is completed with the adoption of a decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. You know that last time by a decision of the then Minister for Labour and Social Affairs was set up in May 2020, the Committee on the Crisis of Serious and Unhealthy Occupations was again set up with the responsibility of consulting on the subject of work, specialisations or workplaces in heavy and unhealthy work. Among the demands were the inclusion of all categories of workers in public hospitals under the heavy and unhealthy regime. The commission has handed over its findings. It is examined by the services of the Ministry of Labour and will then be examined by the Social Security Council. Then comes the adoption of a ministerial decision according to the decision to be taken. I repeat that in any case we shall follow the procedures laid down. Of course, we will follow the overall policy of the government. Under no circumstances as a Ministry of Health - because you have spoken of co-responsibility - we will not promise anything that we cannot implement. That is why we are waiting for the procedures to be completed. Let's wait a bit longer to see where it's going to end up. I shall reply to my second question, Mr President, Mr Kegeroglu's second question on the taxation of newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u290	I, Mr President, will save time from the previous ones. Don't worry. We can get in touch with Mr. Contozamani. The point is to do a job, because this demand is not either the Change Movement, which is indeed the fast-moving opposition party on this issue, nor, of course, only the Minister. It is a matter of concern to the public health system since, in fact, since the provision in Law 3863 and Law 3865 has been completed in the private sector, which was the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, but unfortunately it has remained the insurance of civil servants who were the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The Finance Ministers, all of them, from 2011 onwards, did not proceed to a procedure provided for by the law until 2016 that had exclusive competence. For five years it has not been implemented. Why do I say until 2016? Because since 2016, responsibility has left the Ministry of Finance and with L.4387 has gone to the Ministry of Labour and that responsibility has been left. That's right, that's right. There is the impression in the world that in the public sector things are better than in many respects in relation to stability, etc. This is a fact, but in some unfortunately there is a disadvantage, such as what we are discussing. Once you choose, if you choose, the method of legislation together with the Ministry of Labour, the draft amendment or the provision had to go to the Court of Auditors and not to the General Accounting Office of the State. After consulting the Court of Auditors, the constitutionality and regularity of the provision are guaranteed to be voted on. Aren't we choosing this? We shall now proceed with the general provisions and because the general provision of the Court of Auditors has already been adopted, the procedure with the Committee does not go back to the Court of Auditors for that reason. We will therefore have a conclusion that has been completed since December 2020. Mr. Behrakis was the president. He handed it over. Unfortunately, the new political leadership of the Ministry of Labour does not promote the process to pass through the CSCE. You will tell me: 'This is our responsibility?' No, but it is a matter of the Ministry of Health because the conditions in hospitals - which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health - for doctors, nurses and other specialists to be worse than in the private sector, so that doctors can go to the private sector and then wonder what the method of getting them back. Can't you do that? So, in my opinion, this is what I am asking you to do, and I would ask you, in the context of the Government, to put the matter on the Social Security Council at the PKA. And if the Social Security Council gives a favourable opinion, then go ahead. Just stuff. Just say it: "This is where we're waiting. The world, the manpower that has given everything awaits." And not now say the Ministry of Labour and Mr. Hatzidakis about the budget. It has nothing to do with the budget. It has to do with insurance and proportionate studies. Depending on the contributions we will have after this system. The second concerns the on-calls you have said that you will respond to the second. It's just as serious a matter. Just as serious a matter. Talk to doctors who do newspapers in hospitals, especially now in the period of the pandemic that we had in fact more. The tax that comes out, because they are progressively taxed - as long as the total amount is increased and the scale - is unfortunately a gift to them from an economic point of view. It's not your issue, but it's the people who are in the ministry and under your supervision. So the people who take off the job, the doctors, have a request for the newspapers to be taxed on their own. Tell the Treasury Minister too: 'What happens, Minister of Finance, with this matter?' This is my request to you both to address the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u291	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, with regard to the first part of your question I was clear, we will follow the procedure as envisaged, the general provisions as you said by the legislation, and it is, of course, the government that has the last word and will take its decisions. With regard to the self-taxation of allowances, you have tabled a question to the Ministry of Finance since January 2021 on this matter. You know it's economic first. It is an issue that we are looking at and looking at in greater detail in the context of the proposals that we will shortly bring to legislation and that has to do with providing incentives to cover positions in barren and remote regions. Let me remind you of the past. The self-taxation of doctors' allowances for the newspapers had been introduced by New Democracy in 2009. And in 2010 on the PASOK Government you abolished it on the grounds that tax equality would be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u293	For a memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u294	But you abolished it, Mr. Kegeroglu, so don't give up on us. We legislated, you abolished it, so for history. I think I have answered the second part, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u295	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-31-S1-commons.u296	With the consent of the House at 20.26 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, June 1, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
