ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 28-1-2021 authorisation, OA's minutes were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday, January 28, 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Signature (a) of the 11-12-2020 Donation Convention between the Greek Government, the Joint Benefit Foundation under the name "John S. Latsis (John S. Latsis Public Benefit Foundation)" and the N.D. under the name ‘Athens General Hospital ‘C. GENMARK’ and (b) the 9-12-2020 Donation Convention between the Greek State, of the 4th YEP. Macedonia and Thrace, the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theagenio", Anna Maria Louise Ioannis Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society and other provisions of the Ministry of Health."]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday, February 1, 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 334/22-1-2021, a topical question by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The violation of workers' rights in the Kavala Fertilizers industry by Laurent Larentiadis and protection measures for unpaid workers at the Kavala Fertiliser plant". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 329/20-1-2021 by MP B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Startdown in the reconnection of electricity supplies to financially weak houses in Agia Varvaras during the second phase of the pandemic, despite the government's assurances. 3. The question under number 346/25-1-2021 was raised by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Announcing the redundancies of workers from the Agricultural Foetal Cooperative of Ioannina SA. ‘TAIN’. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 347/25-1-2021, a topical question by Piraeus SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New environmental injustice in Schisto Perama, Keratini - Drapetsonas. In the midst of the pandemic, with an anti-constitutional legislative initiative of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, a waste transhipment station was authorised, while a decision by the Regional Director of Attica is progressing towards the creation of a waste treatment plant, although the revision of the Attica RCF is pending, as well as the new law on recycling. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 337/22-1-2021 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Heraklion Movement, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Consolidation and surprise of people insured by publications on the regulated retirement age limits". 3. Under No 348/25-1-2021, a topical question by the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Garyfallias (Lianna) Kanelles to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The regulation which obliges qualified doctors appointed in the emergency departments to complete six-month training in emergency medicine in order to develop to a higher degree". 4. The Question No 339/22-1-2021 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To immediately withdraw the unacceptable sudden cut in the funds of the Green Fund by 85% intended to deprive the Megalopolis region". 5. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘We need immediate care for workers employed in the public health sector through the special employment programme of four thousand long-term unemployed under Article 64 of Law 4430/2016 (A'205)’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2800/17-12/2020 question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Should the Government give an extension for the completion of the applications of small and medium-sized producers of renewable energy (SMEs) and energy communities?' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 2858/21-12-20 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The inadequacies of the current one require a new "Security - Autonomous" Programme with environmental and social selection criteria." 3. The 2824/417-18-12-20 question and application for the submission of SYRIZA MEP: Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Why do not the legislative and compulsory incentives for recycling and the cyclical economy and the incisions to burial waste?' 4. The 1432/340/4-11-2020 question and application for the filing of documents by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It remains pending the identification of the source of dysosmia in the Volos Urban Group". 5. The question by No. 1370/2-11-2020 of the Greek MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Abstract proof of the impotence of the Government, the management of the Koronia Lake." 6. The question by No. 2223/30-11-2020 of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Why is consultation on the environmental impact study of the waste treatment plant of the Western Region of Central Macedonia (CPC) in the midst of pandemic and a general curfew and while pending decisions in the S.E.''.'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 2598/402/11-12-2020 question and application for the submission of SYRIZA MEP: Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Two hundred and fifty-three thousand ‘seven hundred samples’: more than necessary than necessary clarifications on how to record the data on the samples". In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs is informing the House that five topical questions will be discussed today and that four questions will not be discussed after consultation. In particular, the following topical questions will not be discussed: The second under number 330/20-1-2021 is a topical question by the Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary Movement of Change Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To provide a direct solution to the work of refreshing the Mornos plains." The third under No 345/25-1-2021 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: 'An impediment to the profession of Football Coach from Physical Education (SEFA)'. The first question under number 128/34/6-10-2020 and application for the submission of documents of the reporting cycle - questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Annoyance between producers on the opacity and unequal treatment of areas in the allocation of rights from the national reserve from 2017 onwards’. The second question under number 327/18-1-2021 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'An unjustified suffering and burden on farmers by the Ministry of Finance and the ASE, who consider the compensation for COVID -19 wrongly paid to oil producers, etc., as well as investment aid for wine growers'. We will now begin with the first under number 332/22-1-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Haris) Mamulakis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Control of the Competition Committee on the excessive charging of banks to their services.' Mr Mamulaki's timely question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr Mamulakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, on 7 and 8 November 2019, a check was carried out by the Competition Committee at the headquarters of known financial institutions in the country, a check that was abstracting a series of complaints about quasi-business charges of banks in the previous period with the taking up of your duties. This check, as I said before, was carried out and took place 15 months ago. The complaints, of course, concerned a number of banking practices and charges in favour of the limits which I will mention later, regarding cash withdrawals, replacements with the fault of the client, card, increasing the locks, change PIN, etc. As we all know, the European Union Regulation 751/2015 of the European Parliament and of the Council limits charges to 0.3% for bank movements for credit cards and 0.2% respectively for debit cards. The limits laid down in the regulation are completely violated by the banks and we know that. There's a series of complaints and publications. This practice, in addition to the rest, is obviously burdened by consumers - it affects and undermines - and this is a central issue of a political nature - and this is a central issue of the state's attempt to tackle tax evasion issues, given that there are overcompensations in electronic transactions, which, I am sure, are subject to a special increase, which is in normal circumstances. That is, this ejection that acted as an accelerator, the pandemic crisis, in e-commerce is important. But what's going on? Banks earn doubled both with abusive charges and with an increase in e-commerce. To conclude my thoughts and to go to dentistry, which I think is the substance of the matter, two are the pillars of the question: firstly, at what stage - since you are also the political leader of the Competition Committee, despite the independence that it governs - is the control of the Competition Committee on the charging of credit institutions to citizens, and, of course, when we expect the Committee's recommendation and, of course, the plenary decision? The second question, Minister, is what measures the government and your Ministry intend to take to limit anti-competitive practices between credit institutions - we all know about the informal trust that exists - regarding the charges on electronic transactions and the other electronic services they provide to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u3	Good. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the question, because it gives us the opportunity to talk a little bit about what is going on in relation to and about the control of banks by the Competition Committee. Let me make an introductory observation. I, of course, have the authority of the Competition Committee in constitutional terms, but the Competition Committee is independent, and its investigations are strictly confidential. It would be illegal if I knew anything about the development of this investigation. The only thing I can legally know is when it comes to finding and officially notifying me of the finding. I, for my part, chose the present leadership of the Competition Committee a few months ago at the start of my term of office. I would remind you that we had a conflict with SYRIZA at the time and finally the Council of State stated that I was right and legitimately making this change. The new leadership that we have placed - and I think this deserves to be pointed out - enjoying the full independence of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, is moving towards actions that have never been done before. One of them is the one we're talking about. Never before - nor of course on the SYRIZA Government - the banks had been controlled by the Competition Committee. This is done by us, by a government accused of being a friend of the banks. And I stress, in order not to get any misunderstanding, that we had no involvement in the control. I would point out again that the audit has been carried out automatically by the independent authority. I didn't even know him. We are, however, giving the committee the necessary constitutional independence to do its job. Now, as a supervisor, I can only comment on our debate today whether or not there has been a delay in the conclusion of this audit and I have to give some information just to know what is going on. The audit was carried out, Mr President, suddenly at the headquarters of the central bankers, namely the directors, the presidents of the banking institutions, on 7 and 8 November 2019. Today we are in the fifteenth to fifteenth month. The European average of the European Competition Commission for similar better research - you understand that research at banking institutions is the largest that can be done in Greece, as banks are the largest companies we have - they are fifty months old. The longest examination of the possible existence of a cartel - I will not prejudge - in the European Commission is a hundred months. The fastest case trial done throughout the European Commission is twenty months. So, the fourteen months that the Greek Competition Committee's investigation is now going to last are within this timeframe or outside? It's obviously within this time horizon. So there has been no delay in finding. I don't know when the investigation will be completed. I know, however, - and this is within my competence - that the Greek Competition Commission has allocated ten experts who are only engaged in this investigation, using special software, with the opening of the hard disks that have been seized and all the rest. So we should have some patience. These investigations to be legal and correct must be done in detail and accurately, and this takes time. More will be said in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u5	Good, Minister. Mr Mamulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we obviously know that this is an independent authority. The Competition Committee is obviously an independent authority, as is many independent authorities in our country. The same logic applies to DGCom, the European Competition Commission. Of course, you have made an unfortunate comparison, because the cases concerning the European Competition Committee, which go to DGCom, are cases and cases that are very complex, in line with our country's data. There's another warning difference. We are talking here about a key, top political issue. After all, you too, from the point of view of the opposition officer, many times in the past have referred to this particular regime. At the edge of your speech, report on cartel. That remains to be transparent. However, if nothing else, it shocks and certainly it is a matter of public opinion and, in particular, - and here I would like to stress - the extremely difficult conditions experienced by Greek society, the Greek society and especially the small and medium-sized ones. Because you realise that the consequences of the fraudulent charges by banks are, as it turns out, multiples depending on the individual income of the Greek citizen in relation to the European Union, and especially this year, which, in fact, e-commerce has been e-commerce has been e-commerce, but also for the banks' profits in this matter. So I think that your role as supervisors of the committee responsible will enable you and the government to strengthen this supervision and ultimately know - because that is the purpose and the question - when the competition will be completed. Of course, there are cases in the Competition Committee with seven and eight years of delays and delays in various cases in the past. These have been recorded. They've been in the past. This does not mean, however, that this bad practice must continue. You must, as supervising and competent Minister, speed up the process for the Greek citizen to learn exactly what is happening, if these charges are abusive, and what measures are at stake, they must be taken in the right direction, so that this is for everyone, I think, the wrong phenomenon. We're going to two-three clues that I think it's worth it to be recorded in the Minutes. They are the elements of e-commerce's e-commerce, with what this implies for the Greek economy and, once again, I will stress - the benefits created to the banks. We are talking about 28% increase in online banking transactions, i.e. 66% of Greeks, two out of three, use electronic transactions and cooperate and trade with banks. 17% increased the relationship and the electronic transaction with the Greek public over the entire period. This is a report recently published by FOCUS BARI, the Focus on Tech Life, which demonstrates what I am saying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The increase in e-commerce is 42.7% over 2020. We're talking about shocking evidence. We are talking about a change in the status quo of trade, the retail trade and not just. In this tectonic change we have systemic banks, which, in fact, create super-profit conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u7	And finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u8	Yes, Mr. President. So I'm going to the important thing in the end. It is very important that the Greek society and the Greek people should be aware of this fact, in fact, by complaints about the 15th month of November 2019, and that we have, wherever it is February 2021, what political movements with political content and essential status are to be made by you, so that this time can be compiled and as soon as possible to know exactly what the results of this investigation are. It's a kubic. We can't blind ourselves. We cannot ostracize the moment where, in fact, the Greek society is all over. In the end - I do not know, of course, from what I expect you to do - either there is no political will or there is no political will to control and to monitor and to pressure, as I have said, to the committee on this matter. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u9	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u10	First of all, to avoid any misunderstanding, I didn't say there was a cartel. I said that this investigation is being carried out to determine whether or not there is a cartel. Whether there's a cartel or not, I don't judge it. It will be decided by the Independent Competition Committee and, if they are convicted, they have disagreed, then Greek independent justice will take over. That's what the Minister can't get involved in. As to the latter, as to whether we can force the committee to go faster, I am right and clear. We can't pressure. We can't Constitutionally. The Minister of Development cannot force, ask, in any way engage in an ongoing investigation. That would be directly illegal. All we have done and it is legal, is what we have received from the Independent Competition Committee for more recruitment, for increased funding, to have more tools to do their job easier, they have already all been accepted and legislated. We can provide them with the tools to do their jobs better and if they can, faster. But to call and say "do it faster" is illegal. It's engaging in a classified process. And I, you know, have great respect for the institutions and the independence of justice. I have in the past been involved in this type of action by others - now it is not here - and I do not want to do to anyone who has suffered. I therefore fully respect the independence of the committee. I told you the European average terms. You were right to say that DGCom's cases are much larger. But the reason why I compared was - obviously, banking research is the biggest research that can be done in Greece in some part of the market, because banks are almost the whole market. If, for a case, the Competition Committee had reason to spend a great deal of time doing the investigation properly - it would certainly be that. You have rightly mentioned in the past about minor cases in relation to what we are discussing six and seven and eight years from the Greek Competition Committee to take effect. Do I like that? Not at all. We changed leadership, changed funding, made more recruitment, because we want it to go faster - be careful - the whole operation. But, to be fair, the size of this investigation is not many fourteen months. As to whether or not there are excessive charges, I will wait for the result of the investigation. Because otherwise I would enter the old debate and say that Papadimoulis said to the European Commission, etc., and then the other person will say about the income of the Greeks. I won't get into this at all. We have an independent authority, he's got the data. He's looking to see if there was or wasn't any preconsent. He'll make a conclusion, and we'll move according to the findings. One last. Because it often comes in public dialogue, and the argument is partly right, I would like to highlight another side. You said we have a big increase in electronic sales in the middle of a pandemic. True. This reflectively brings greater revenue to banks, since more electronic transactions and more plastic money are used, for which banks have charges. So in your logic, if the charges are even excessive, then in a market where e-commerce is now taking more of a part than cash, to say it quite simply, e-commerce involves banks, so they have more profits. One banker could reverse you that, in the midst of a pandemic, the banks, however, proceeded to a greater suspension of debt payments of all times, about nine months full-time dosing freeze of all loans. So, automatically what emerged, reflexively, has caused very great damage in their books, since they have stopped paying properly in the pandemic. So if we want to look at what happened in the pandemic, we can't just look at one. We have to look at the other one. So I come back, so that we don't waste time and ruin our hearts for no reason. When the Independent Competition Committee does not finish and tells us 'yes, there is a cartel', we will be intervening. If he tells us "no, there's no cartel," we'll call 'em good. If he tells us 'yes, the charges are excessive', we will intervene. If he says 'no, it's not too much', we'll call 'em good. We'll wait for the result, and then we'll move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third with number 349/25-1-2021 top-level question of the first-round question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems from Flood in the Regional Unit of Evros". The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, will answer. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Regional Unit of Evros, which in recent years has been almost synonymous with the floods, has once again been flooded, Minister. A strong and protracted rain on Genaris 12th was enough to reveal for the most part the inadequacy or lack of infrastructure in the Evros region and, of course, cause enormous disasters. In the Municipality of Souflio, the Didymotech, Orestiada, Alexandroupolis, there are too many house damages, such as Apalos and Maistro. They measure damage to agricultural crops, greenhouses, livestock and infrastructures - stables, pumping rooms, mechanical equipment - while the bridges and roads were destroyed, such as this road that connects the village Metaxades to the adjacent villages of Polia and Avdela. Overall, Evros is estimated to have flooded twenty - one thousand acres with winter grains, fifteen thousand acres of male, one hundred and fifty acres of winter gardening, over two hundred and fifty hives of beesshed, while we were damaged in fixed capital and stored products. About a hundred houses, Minister, are inappropriate and, of course, more houses have been destroyed. The conclusion is that your government, the New Democracy Government today, is continuing the same violin as the previous ones, because it does not have those funds that are needed to make the necessary and urgent, as is the case now, of the projects of integrated flood protection in Evros, I would say to the whole country. However, there are responsibilities - you know - in the local administrations of the region and municipalities which, with the exception of some low-speaking grays, do not claim these funds and, unfortunately, accept in practice the sub-station and sub-station of their services, with the well-known catastrophic results for the inhabitants of the region. So we ask you, Minister, on the basis of the above, what you will do to make a record of the damage. It's still not complete. The workshops are not enough for this. Compensation for 100%, however, of the damage in good time. To be immediately and fully restored to the damaged infrastructure with modern standards and for the affected and until their income is restored, of course, their tax debts, in insurance funds, in banks, in municipalities, without surcharges and interest. To be exempt from taxes and levies, such as TWGs and GFCFs and municipal fees, and there should not be even the thought of auctioning and confiscations to such people. Of course, we must finally make a complete settlement of the torrents throughout the whole of their catchment area and give them money. This is what we ask you: will you give money at some point for the design, study and construction of the required anti-military works for Evros? Such works are and must be done - and I will refer more to my dentistry - the dams in Levius and Manthy. We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u13	Good, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question, which gives me the opportunity to say a few words about the recent floods in Evros. The main issue in these cases is the immediate response so that we do not mourn human victims. I want to publicly congratulate the two policemen who in the Municipality of Sufli have exaggerated themselves in order to save our fellow humans who at the time were in danger. Apart from that, from the very first moment I had contact with all the mayors of the region, with the District Commissioner Metio and the Vice-President, Mr Petrovic. I have asked for the damage to be recorded at the beginning of the day and for the relevant technical notes to be sent in order to proceed with the immediate assistance to address this natural disaster. Up to now there are no such technical papers and requests pending at the Ministry of Interior because the damage has not been recorded. As you know, the area has been declared in an emergency for six months, so there is room to submit these requests. Of course, these requests will be met, because we have shown all this time that in such cases we are directly intervening, and when there are substantiated requests, we are satisfied with the funding from the Ministry of the Interior. You also know that by decision of the local councils concerned, the affected can be exempted from the fees for as long as the problem exists and the services in question cannot be provided. As regards your broader position on what the government is doing on this issue, I will tell you three points, Mr Papoutsis. Firstly, with regard to the CAP, there will be an allocation of EUR 3,237,300 from the autonomous resources of 2021 in Evros to cover investment and project execution. This will also be supplemented by the PHILADIMOS II programme with funding for the municipalities of Evros EUR 2,722,900. On these two initiatives, the 'ITIS ANTI-DUMP' programme also comes, a programme of EUR 2.5 billion. In various thematic sections, it intervenes in order to finance projects that are very important in order to change local government, to improve the image in local society, in the interests of the daily life of the citizens. Here we have works from water supply and sewerage to the rural roads and even issues relating to the most green footprint, so let me say it, through recycling until the digitisation of our municipalities. Therefore, for the first time in many years, at least in many years of the crisis, we have two programmes, "PHILDIMOS II", worth EUR 1 billion and "ITIS TRITY", with a total of EUR 2.5 billion, to stimulate, in fact, local government and to put a stop to the problems of citizens' daily lives. That's what the government does. It will be constantly next door to the municipalities and regions, I repeat, for the benefit of the citizen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said that the log is not complete. How can this be completed when there is no staff required to carry out this recording? You're asked by the mayors. It is a matter of purely lack of staff. However, your answers, Minister, were in many anticipated, and I would add more than thousands of your predecessors from the previous ones. Every time, you know, after such catastrophes, words are many and great, but works are not. And so it is usually the choice of compensation - which you compensate, the small, the minimum - to be given after many months, while some fragmentary and temporary solutions are being selected here and there, that is, patches, instead of a comprehensive, modern, coherent overall plan for anti-milling projects. The funding you have referred to for such emblematic solutions is intended, but this will not address the cause of the problems. These projects, which are vital to the protection of people and the environment, do not yield so much profits to construction groups. Besides, they don't give birth and continuous profits, like tolls, so they go back to priorities. But some examples of these infrastructures - and I want to stand here a little - are the very important dams of Dereio and Manthia. The Dereio dam has been discussed since the 1960s. "I was young and old," which we say, and still happened. Their construction, therefore, Minister, such as Dereio, could provide sufficient protection for the mountainous zone of the region, as well as for the entire Red Creek valley, the river that ends next to the Dumotich in Evros. And the second barrier of Manthi could protect the area of Ferra, Itea and Poros, the village of Poros, which was now evacuated with the floods, because there was a danger even for people's lives. These two dams could ensure water supply, irrigation and electricity production. The studies on these projects mature. But they grow too late. Decades grow and the dams, of course, stay on paper, and there were some celebrations, unfortunately, like SYRIZA in 2018, because - he says - the work of building the Dereio dam began. All they caused, of course, these celebrations were the anger of the inhabitants. Now listen. The Department of Antimilitary and Enhancement Works - not yours - in our question, question of the KKE, has been answering us since 2016, that the next - it says - five years will complete the studies of these dams of Dereio and Manthia. It's been five years since. Is something wrong? Apart from the state, it seems, its mockery also has a lot to do when it comes to the needs of the people. But what you have said here, Mr Minister, is what you and the relevant ministers of all governments are saying to go and tell the eleven families of Lykofi, who saw their households get lost in mud, the biopapalaters who see their small greenhouses in Cornofla flood every little and little because they happened to be between the vertical axis and the old road, and so they are flooding all the time. You should go and tell the farmers of the villages of the villages of the Twomouple, Orestiade and Soufli, who saw their fields flooding, to the people of Loutras - ten kilometers away from Alexandroupolis - who saw their village cut in half, since the iron bridge that united it fell and had no water for drink. Go tell the parents of the 7th Preschool of Orestiad, which is built on a stream, please. Go tell them in the villages of mountain Evros with the lousy and dangerous road network, villages where the minority lives mainly. Except, as you know, Minister, you can no longer go because they've been blocked since the 12th of January, since the only bridge that connects them to the rest of the world in Leperion has been destroyed. And as if not all of this were enough, the snow before yesterday came to finish the evil. Those excluded villages, therefore, from the rains have been left without electricity, so many without heating in the wild winter there, without water, because pumping stations are not working either. And we're talking about big people at age. Many of them, in fact, are also inhabited, in Corymvos, in Mavroques, in Dereio, in too many villages. The network - you can see - of PPC is so outdated, especially in the Sufli area, that with the slightest collapse. That's what the Mayor of the Soufflion says in a public letter. These tragic and dangerous things happen when it comes to infrastructures that the people need. But when you are going to implement the American-Natural projects in the Evros region, all the projects in the port of Alexandroupolis are carried out in the pitch fuse to serve the NATO-American warships that turn Alexandroupolis into a war brigade and thus to a possible target of retaliation wounds. These are your priorities and your priorities and previous ones, and we think it is time for the people of Evros to speak and fight for their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. It does not claim the JRC nor has the monopoly on social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u19	That's not what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u20	Theories exist, they exist, and they will exist. When there are disasters, it is considered the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior and, of course, the government from the speed of reaction and fullness in planning and addressing this disaster. And that's what we're going to do. And if you ask me and say that we do the same as the previous ones, I think that this report you made for 2016 was about another government. I'll tell you what happened last year. A total of 104 million were allocated by the Ministry of Interior for natural disasters. Only in the first days of January 2021, 7 million were made available. We are next, and when we have - I repeat - a documented dossier with all the supporting material and technical notes, we respond and we are next door. When we don't, we'll be waiting to be submitted. I told you about the specific case of Evros that there is nothing pending. When he comes, as the mayors know - I have spoken with the same personal - the vice-president and the district commander. With regard to the other topics you said, were there programmes like "PHILDIMOS" and "HUMAN TRIBUTION" in the previous years? I told you before about a sum of EUR 3.5 billion cumulatively from these two programmes. Please compare with the funds available from the Ministry of Interior's Public Investment Programme in the previous years, especially in the decades of the crisis. You'll see that we're really going to do a section of development and I wish we could succeed. The bet's in common. We are rings in the same chain, government, regions and local level 1 government, municipalities to improve the daily lives of the citizen and that's what we're going to do. As far as anti-military works are concerned, it is obviously a broader issue of government policy and, of course, not just of the Ministry of Interior. On both issues, for the two dams you have said, there is a great debate from the past. What needs to be done and what is to be done is in an overall anti-military plan that concerns the whole of the territory, to make the speeches that must be made with a plan, not with a word of the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second timely question under number 327/18-1-2021 first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement, Mr. Vasilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Unjustified suffering and burden on farmers by the Ministry of Finance and the ASE who consider the compensation for COVID -19 wrongly paid to oil producers, etc., as well as investment aid to wine growers'. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question does not concern farmers who have been excluded from the programme of compensation for the damage suffered as a result of coronary damage, because this is a matter of the Ministry of Rural Development. The question concerns the farmers who joined the programme, they have been compensated - for the olive growers - for a certain amount of compensation per hectare and for other categories, of course - and who, according to the ADP, have received the compensation but are regarded as European aid and are added to the subsidies, which, however, are subsidies - the amount of which I mean - are a criterion for joining the special VAT system or the standard. So what's the problem? That thousands of micro-farmers who received the compensation for olive cultivation or the other production they had due to the damages suffered by COVID are pushed on the basis of the concept of ADI to migrate their books to a normal regime, which means suffering, costs and an unfair migration due to the fact that the compensation is for this year. The question, therefore, is whether you intend to correct things so that they are not considered to be aid, subsidy, but compensation, and also to consider it for investment projects. The vineyard growers have already sent notes from the ADI and are told that investment aid is income and a subsidy and is therefore included in the criteria for the migration of books from the special scheme to the normal scheme. We would like your answers, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u23	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you have raised many issues in your question and in order to understand the debate we are going to have to have an overview of the main issue you have raised. Profit from business activities, especially for individual rural business operators, is included in order to determine the profit from the direct payments of ‘pillar I’ only the basic aid, as well as ‘green’ and related aid in excess of EUR 12,000. Agricultural allowances as a whole are not included in the determination of profit by an individual agricultural business activity. Therefore, a large part of the subsidies and compensation is not taken into account in profits from individual agricultural business. Also, farmers who made the previous tax year deliveries of agricultural products - their production - and the provision of agricultural services worth up to EUR 15 000 and receiving subsidies of up to EUR 5 000 - are subject to the special VAT scheme. Where one of the above limits is exceeded, it shall be subject to the normal VAT arrangements. So, on the first point you raise, I would like to inform you that in the measures we have taken to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, namely Article 146 of Law 4764/2020, we have clearly identified that aid paid to natural or legal persons or legal entities, in the context of actions to address the impact of the COVID -19 on the primary sector of co-financed or not, is not subject to any tax, levy, or any other detention in favour of the public, including a special solidarity contribution. They are also unaccountable, inconsistent with the hands of the public or third parties and are not offset by certified public debts, public-law legal persons, local authorities and their legal persons, insurance funds and banks. With regard to your comment that the exceptional compensation due to COVID -19 for oil producers and other producers is regarded as compensation for 2019, while received in 2020, I inform you that it has already been pointed out. Hereinafter the problem is solved by a provision contained in the bill of the Ministry of Finance which is now being discussed in the committee responsible. In this provision, subsidies will be declared in the year to which they are collected and not in the year to which they relate. It is noted that the exceptional compensation due to COVID -19 for oil producers - for other producers is indemnification - is not taxed, irresponsible and is not counted against the limit of EUR 5,000, which is a criterion for transferring from the special to the normal VAT system and vice versa. For the second part of your question, I will answer my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u25	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I have to say that the Minister's answer to the first question is complete and we have to be satisfied when the ministers - not all of them and not most of them, unfortunately, because of the nature of the problems - are doing so. It is a concrete answer, which means that it is not taxed - the Minister has made the tax system clear - and is not counting on subsidies, so it is not a cause for the migration to the status of producers - let us say it - of the middle and the big ones. They will not be added to those small producers, then, all those who have kept books so far from EUR 5,000 and above. In order not to discuss this further, since the answer to this part is complete, I would like to clarify the error of the OPEKEPE, if in the bill, which, as you said, is now in discussion in the committee, this is corrected in relation to 2019-2020 and, above all, to see as far as the question of investment aid is concerned on the basis of programmes such as the restructuring of the vineyards is concerned, what kind of thing they have. These aids are referred to in pillar II. Is it a subsidy that is counted at EUR 5000, or is it counted on income, or should it not be counted either on income or on subsidies during the Ministry of Finance? This remains to be clarified and also concerns Larissa in many of this. After all, I think that on the basis of a document from the vineyard growers in Thessaly I had been stirring up and asked the question, and I think it needs to be cleared up, because it concerns thousands of people who want to restructure, invest, and at the same time, it is 'prisoned' - in import terms - by taxation. It's important, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u27	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, with regard to the first part of your question concerning farmers, I believe that I was clear. Let us now move on to the question of aid for the restructuring of vineyards through the restructuring and conversion programme for wine-growing areas in Greece. Given that there is a wide range of categories of subsidies granted to farmers and for the purpose of addressing these amounts correctly, I note: In application of Regulation No 1308/2013, and only for wine grape varieties, a programme for the restructuring and conversion of vineyards is in place, which aims to increase the competitiveness of winegrowing holdings. The programme shall cover one or more of the following measures: As defined in the Ministerial Decision under number FEC 2096/B/5-6-2019, the financial support for someone who takes all the above actions starts from EUR 1,460 per acre and reaches EUR 1,845 per acre. This financial support for the producer is intended to increase the competitiveness of the winegrowing holdings through the qualitative upgrading of wine-growing potential, the establishment of wine varieties with increased commercial interest, the introduction of modern cultivation techniques and the preservation and protection of the environment. As is clear from all this, the amount granted as aid for the restructuring of vineyards is therefore regarded as an income that is not taxable - I repeat, it is considered as income that is not taxed - it does not fall under indemnification aid and is included within the limit of EUR 5,000 from subsidies set out in Article 41(1) of the VAT Code. It is quite different from the amounts of aid received by the beneficiary farmers in support of those affected by the effects of the pandemic, which are considered to be of an indemnity nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fourth timely question under number 342/25-1-2021 first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The'sensitive' external water system of EYDAP 100% in private hands via PPP". The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Nikolaos Papathanases. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the second time I have brought this matter to the House. This time we are talking about it and together for a very simple reason: we have two decisions of the Council of State which define the obvious, that water is a public good and cannot be privatised. After both governments failed, you at the time of Mr. Samaras who put it in the HIDE, and then SYRIZA who put it in the superstition - both decisions were shot down by the Council of State - now move into the even worse scenario: Privateize through PPP the management and maintenance of HIDEAP Iceas, i.e. all the network of sources, water tanks, dams, pipelines, that bring water and thirst to Athens. They collect the water from a huge piece of Greece to bring it to Athens. And you're saying you're going to lower the cost. There are specific questions. You say that the maintenance and upgrading work will be borne by the individual. Indeed, the private investor who will make profit apparently and have the weight of maintenance and upgrading will not pass this on to the citizen's price. What will be the impact on the citizen? You are also saying that recalculation of refined water will work for the benefit of consumers. How is it possible for that individual to pursue the gain and to speak of a price reduction? What is the international example you have to bring? The only time we have privatization of the water network is in Chile, Pinochet. We do not really have such examples. Wherever water has been privatised in general, the consequences have been dramatic. Let me remind you of Detroit and the situation that was created there. Even the automotive industries left Detroit because of the privatisation of water, because so badly it was the management that came to the point that it was too toxic to corroborate their machines, not for the hundreds of deaths and infections. So you suggest to the PPP and the sale of unrefined water to private individuals by the manager. This is not contrary to the judgment of the Court of First Instance. E., who talks about the public character of the water? Do you give someone the management of sources that despaired Athens and will they have the right to sell their water to individuals? How does this improve quality, Minister? In conclusion, because I do not want to abuse the time - and I thank you for the tolerance - I would remind you that the Attica Region, the Municipality of Athens and many municipalities from Keracini, Nice and even Kifisia have passed resolutions, Minister, against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis' timely question gives us the opportunity to discuss an issue which concerns the difference between privatisation and public-private partnership. In his question Mr Arsenis refers to how the reduction in annual maintenance costs through privatisation is documented, which is why the government claims. First of all, it should be recalled that it was not New Democracy but SYRIZA, where Mr Arseni's party leader was the Minister of Finance, who put the EMSDDA in the superstate for ninety-nine years. But let me refer to what it really means to a public-private partnership. Public-private partnerships are generally long-term contracts concluded between the public and the private sector, which are not related to privatisation but to the provision of maintenance services of a system. They are, indeed, a tool that works worldwide and provides precisely this qualitative upgrade that we usually demand as a society to have the best services. So, Mr Arseni, we have two forms of partnership. One is the rewarder, where the private body is repaid through the commercial exploitation of the project and the other is social infrastructure services, where the private body is repaid for the operation of the project by the public body over a period of time. The work you refer to is therefore not privatised. I want to tell you that for twenty years the EEAS has been paying EUR 26 million a year to receive the services it will receive around EUR 15 million a year if you refer to the present value. This project therefore wins the Greek State and the Greek taxpayer over EUR 150 million over the next twenty years. The exchange shall be paid by means of availability payments, precisely because the contractor does not own the water-supply system but provides a service to maintain and upgrade the system. At the end of this contract, this system remains, in accordance with the current status of the public body. Clearly we are talking about a project in which for twenty years the Greek State will win 150 million euros, money that the state can give to sensitive social groups, in vulnerable groups, to upgrade the quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u33	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, whether it is a divestment and a sale of what is going on I will not tell you, I will read the decision of the Attica Region, which I do not think belongs to any political area on the Left: "We are asking that the process of divesting the external water system should be stopped in private interests". This is Attica. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Also are the texts from the Haidari Municipal Council, Kifissia Municipal Council. I'll testify to the Minutes. It is from the Municipality of Nice, Agios Ioannis Rentis, respectively, and it is from the Municipality of Agia Paraskevi, the Municipality of Pallinis, etc. The government may live in a fantasy world where the PPP does not lead to the sale and privatisation of private monopolistic resources, but here we have the same political bodies that express local government and accept the consequences of your decision to say something very different. And they're people from your own political space. To be honest, the mistake was evidently made in 1999 when HSYP was separated from Ice Frogs. This mistake was made, because then it was the first time PASOK entered into the privatisation dance, but this mistake was made with the aim that the EEAS would stay at least outside the privatizations. They've both been badly done. Badly broke into the stock market, and the Ice Eagle was separated from it. But at the moment you are going to dismantle that, too. You're putting the private man on. You are not allowed by the Council of State. You wanted to. You wanted to have Detroit in Greece. You wanted us to have a water quality reduction. You didn't care. "Veolia" was there. They were one of those who claimed HSY and HSH, Mr. Papathanassis. You want these phenomena to be repeated. It wasn't bothering you, as long as they have it in private. But right now, you're forbidden by the S.H.I.E.L.D. Go ahead and privatize the N.S.S.S. and N.S.S.S.S.S.S.C., go to the next one. You're privatising the network. And it has nothing to do with management. Problems with PPPs are well known all over the world. We've got a company from H.H.I.E.L.D., which is the most profitable company in the C.I.E.L.D., has reserves larger than most banks. This company has targeted you to privatise rather than any problematic ones, as you usually say about the companies you sell. For seventy years it has managed the network. He's got the know-how and he's done it very well. And you, while the state is taking 26 million from the EMSDDA, with responsibility for SYRIZA, which has delayed the new EMSDDA - Ice Frog Agreement for the purpose of taking over the external water supply system. You've already given half a million public money to find experts to prepare the PPP and you're about to sell this network. It's too dangerous what you're doing. You give individuals the management of sources, when we know that in other countries this has led to a collapse in network quality. It's too dangerous what you're doing, because you're infringing and dismantling the rule of law. Because when you encourage the manager, through your PPP communication, to bottle the water of the sources, EYDAP Pagion, the external water system of Athens, if you do not come to an immediate breach of the decision and the spirit of the decision of S.H.E., then what are you doing? You are violating the public interest and the rule of law, Mr. Papathanassis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u36	I am truly surprised, Mr Arsenis, because we seem to be speaking a different language. You always repeat that we are talking about privatisation. I would like to submit to the Minutes of the House, so that you can see it, the difference between privatisation and public-private partnership. The property of the infrastructure in the PPP? To the public body. Where's he going to privatization? The ownership of the private body. Significant difference, to understand it. Final responsibility for ensuring the provision of services: Where remains in the PPP? To the public body. Where's he going to privatization? To the private body. Project service character: Where is it in PPPs? In the public sector. Where's he going to privatization? The sole purpose of the service of the private investor who is being privatised is to do so. Type and scope of the partnership: It is defined by the contract between a public body and a private body, while in the case of privatisation, through the licensing and supervision arrangements resulting from the free market. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Nikolaos Papathanases presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I put it in the Minutes to be able to study and understand, because, really, I'm surprised when you talk about privatising a public good, and we're just talking about maintaining and upgrading the service network. So you have to make that clear in your sense, so that we do not talk about things that are not the case here. I must also tell you, Mr Arseni, that it was frankly whether it was a privatization we could discuss. What are we talking about? We're talking about a service provision. To date, the Greek State paid EUR 26 million to provide a service, which will now be provided with 15 million, because one can plan twenty years to be able to get exactly this qualitative upgrade. And that brings savings. What did we do today? Private again maintained the system. Who kept it? Was there really a service that could sustain this system? So you contradict what you say. Either you want the 150 million to save the public to go to social programmes or wherever the state considers that you have to give, or you want these 150 million, the excess value of the private. You should therefore make it clear to you that the concept of privatisation and the partnership of private law is privatised. I'll only tell you about the five PPP projects, starting with the fire stations. What are the fire stations that became PPP? Are the fire stations private? I'm sorry, isn't it public? The school infrastructure, done by PPP, what is it, private or public? Please tell me. So, you don't want the kids to have heat and have to wait 15 years to go and put a lamp and a heat? You need to make it clear now what you want. Because here we are talking clearly about a public sector which gives a contractor to maintain the system. I would also like to say to you that with these fire-fighting stations, school infrastructure, telematics etc., due to quality - because, you know, according to quality, it goes down and down and down - of 61 million, we paid 44 million, 17 million. Because you're constantly judging, you don't go to time, time, contract time, so that you're charged, but you're going to 20 years and you save money, and that money you're giving it to social programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Allow me to move on to a short break in the sitting, as this is what health guidelines for decontamination of space are for, and we will come back in a few minutes to continue with the timely questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The first question will be discussed under number 338/22-1-2021 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Spirtzi, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increase of crimes, while the Government restricts individual freedoms and democratic rights". The State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, good morning. I imagine we are all satisfied with yesterday's great gathering of the pan-educational, which, despite the anti-democratic and unconstitutional ban, brought together thousands of people. However, since the first day the government has turned its interest and priorities, unfortunately, on other issues than the Greek Police framework. It has taken the utmost importance of suppressing, intimidating citizens and the trade union movement and having constant incidents of police violence. I'm going to present you with a volume of such incidents. Really a volume! At the same time, serious crime, despite the government's announcements, has increased. We will also present you with incidents that every day show the serious crime and the action of organised crime. So we ask: In what ways do you intend to deal with serious crime and armed violence? How many policemen have you placed and how many are serving in MATs, in the DIA group? How many policemen have you hired exceptionally to be within this framework of repression and combating democratic freedoms and how many have you strengthened - on the other bank - the services - and what services - that combat serious infraction and organised crime? In what ways do you intend to deal with the malfunctions in the Security Body and ensure their democratic function? I do not want to mention - I also see the KKE MEP - the important moments that this policy appeared to be on the anniversary of the Polytechnic, on the day of memory of the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou, at Mr. Indare's house, in Mr. Kattini's family, and many others that show that the new generation has been targeted. Will it really be useful for all of us to tell us how to deal with these police violence phenomena and how to deal with organised crime? I'm going to testify to you a table that's just the incidents of crime and armed violence recorded in the news releases last week. It's really impressive. ELAS officers have said it while we are in the Lockdown, and crime has adapted to other forms, serious crime, shooting every day on the streets and squares of the country is a common fact now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u40	Good, Mr. Spirtzi. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection fully respecting the procedure of parliamentary control once again states 'the present', which is ready to inform the House responsiblely and fully, but also our fellow citizens of matters of responsibility for this Ministry. Looking carefully at the contents of this topical question, I can only once again point out the attempt to highlight a number of issues, but also individual events, for which I myself have been placed on several occasions either oral or in writing with your colleagues from the Civilian Representation Party and not just in the context of the parliamentary control process. I will therefore present you with only a few copies of the number of replies that have been given from July 2019 until today in the exercise of the right of parliamentary control both by you and by other colleagues and concern, inter alia, the fight against domestic violence, as well as individual phenomena of excessive police violence. This is, of course, only a small number of the many elements you have at your disposal, which, however, is indicative of the government's consistency with which we respond to every issue, which you and every other member of the National Representation in this Chamber. There is therefore a reasonable question to those who are following us on the grounds that you are coming back to the same issues, given that you know in detail all the actions that the government has taken, in order to deal effectively with the individual issues you are talking about. Allow me, too, to highlight a constant inconsistencies between what you have and what you have reached your conclusions, trying unsuccessfully to degrade government policy on internal order and security. At the same time, the work of tens of thousands of Greek police officers who are uninterruptedly attempting to successfully address the challenges of our time. This is a specific reasoning which I cannot follow and you will allow me not to adopt. With regard to individual issues, and in particular with regard to the staffing of the Greek Police, as well as to the initiatives that are being developed to tackle crime effectively, I would like to point out the following: there is no doubt that the power of the Greek Police requires all of it. The suffocatingly narrow budget restrictions and the significant number of retirement departures from the ranks of the Greek Police, together with the reduced recruitments over the last decade, have led to this result. The constant pursuit of all of us is to strengthen to the extent of the financial capabilities of the Greek Police class with the appropriate staff to meet the increased security requirements of our time. At the same time, more efficient management of existing police forces is sought, in such a way as to make their distribution of operational needs across the territory. Efforts are also needed in the field of the renewal of the logistical equipment of Greek Police officials, where through the necessary competitive procedures we have managed to renew and where necessary to strengthen the necessary means for the safe and effective execution of their missions. This is an important project, which is progressing rapidly. As far as the power of the services to which you are referring is concerned, I can assure you that all the information is here, at your disposal. However, they cannot be made public, because, as you can see, they are data that are relevant to security issues, which we all have to safeguard through their non-publishment. To conclude my initial position, I would like to highlight the constant, substantial effort made by all the competent services of the Greek Police, with a view to the implementation of a holistic anti-criminal policy plan. This is a dynamic, that is, constantly changing process, which aims to combat both serious crime and petty crime and to strengthen the sense of security for citizens. We are therefore moving firmly, with a specific policy, with clear steps whose results are reflected in the figures contained in the table I will present to you in the Minutes, from which the clear improvement in the level of security that our fellow citizens experience on a daily basis is apparent. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures are clear. For example, there is a 29.96% reduction throughout the country in theft - burglary, 29.68% in wheelchairfts and 43.04% in robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mr Spirtzis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, zero in the clay again. Your same information has been written in the question. Indeed, the burglaries and burglaries have decreased by 28%. Since we're locked in our homes. After the operation has been suspended for many months of the catering industry, the stores. It makes perfect sense. It didn't happen from police action, unfortunately! At the same time, our frauds, mostly, among our elderly fellow citizens in the houses in Thessaloniki increased 67.93% and in Athens, only in November 57%. I'm saying two numbers. The problem, however, is not just that, that is, that the police have not seen the development of the crime, because of the measures of the health crisis, is not that officials of ELAS actually predict that once we open up and overcoming the health crisis, we will have a very large and intense gang action. The question is whether you have the evidence - which you do not have to tell us - as to what serious crime is and how much has been increased and what the action of organised crime is. It is not possible in the neighborhoods of Athens, Thessaloniki, Chios the other day, in Patras in the central squares to empty Kalashnikov, pass school buses, pass citizens, get injured, get killed by passing civilians, unsuspecting people, and you tell us - and you also say in the election - about the doctrine of "law and order". You have hired three thousand policemen exceptionally, you have established the group 'DRANS', you have established the 'Day to Protests', you have founded - or want to establish - the police at universities, the police at public transport. What's the police's business, will you ever do it? It is not the protesters and trade unions that the work of the police, nor should Members be prevented from going to the American Embassy in an anti-constitutional manner, on the Polytechnic anniversary. It's not the police chief's job to take out bans on meetings that make these decisions from the folk and the student movement. This isn't a police job. Police work is not to empty Kalashnikov in the squares of Athens, Thessaloniki and the whole country. So we ask - and you do not give us any information that is confidential - how much you have increased the staff of police directorates dealing with serious crime and organised crime, to compare it to the services you have established or served in exceptionally regarding the demonstrations, individual rights and freedoms, the constitutionally guaranteed rights of the Greek citizen. That's what we're asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, it cannot be understood why the Party of Police Vice-Presidents adopts such an irresponsible attitude on internal order and security. Unfortunately, you are wrong, unfortunately, a great collective effort carried out in the middle of unprecedented pandemic conditions, with the aim of improving security conditions, which, as you know, are a decisive factor, so that our country continues to be a world-wide leading tourist attraction, in a few months' time again, once again. Because Greece is and will remain one of the safest countries in the world. You deliberately ignore the enormous effort of Greek police men and women both in the fight against crime and in the fight against the coronary. You listen politically to the self-evident respect for all of us in the constitutionally guaranteed right of assembly and the obligation to protect public health, by closing the eye on those who do not care for the health risks they suffer during the pandemic. Petroleum - not you personally, but your party officials - at every opportunity the Greek Police and its work. At the same time, your executives are protagonists in setting up a solidarity network in Koufantina, turning him up through their statements and announcements to a popular fighter. You are in favour of taking over buildings, in favour of lawlessness in universities, and you are in favour of arbitrary organised marginal groups to the detriment of a vast majority of citizens. You call the police today, in democratic Greece, the activity and presence of women and men of the Greek Police next to the citizen. You're talking, separating official evidence of crime, organised crime, drugs, domestic violence. You are constantly talking about abuses of detainees, arbitrary prisons, cruelty to refugees and illegal immigrants. Our answer to all of this is that there are no right-wing enclaves in the police, as such activities are not tolerated both by today's political and physical leadership and from previous times, and I am sure of that. I am sure, too, that you know that the police are moving under the Constitution, on the basis of the legal order, with discipline, structural adequacy and accountability. We do not claim, of course, that all problems in intellectual and logistical infrastructure have been solved but a significant effort is being made with methodicality, design, resources, budget. We are trying for the internal security environment of the country a step forward with a comprehensive plan for the reorganisation and more effective functioning of this House, which has nothing to do with the topical but on the contrary is serious and professional. We are heading towards Greece of 2030. Let us finally stop talking about inadequate education, of terrorising citizens, of limitations on rights, of deprivation of basic freedoms and of opaque procedures for the recruitment of police personnel. Police mission is to ensure the life, the property and, of course, the security of citizens. The challenges in the field of security at both internal and international level require that, in the context of responsible public dialogue and political culture, we be on public order and security issues in the context of political and strategic harmonisation, in order to guarantee the security of all citizens together. We owe them that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u46	Good. Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-29-S1-commons.u47	With the agreement of the House at 11.31 p.m. the sitting is closed on Monday, February 1, 2021, at 13.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
