ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House on Friday 5 March 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. - The Question No 483/26-2-2021 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Bluchos. Constantine to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Implementation of Vertical Axis of Entrepreneuria Drama - Amphipolis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by SYRIZA's MP, the Progressive Alliance, Mr. Catherine (Caterina) Notopoulou, to the Minister of Tourism, on "Return of self-government the proposal of the Minister of Tourism for the establishment of an anonymous company entitled "ANONYLY INDIVIDUAL CHARACTERISTICS GREECE". 3. - The question by number 488/1-32021 of the Member of Parliament, Halkidiki, of the Change Movement, Mr Apostolos Pana, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "Manufacture of a N. Triglia dam". 4. - The Question No 498/1-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Finance on "No pay for retirement allowances to former workers of the Hellenic Vehicle Industry (ELVO). 5. The question asked by the Greek Member of State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, with reference to the Minister of Finance, on 'Exclusion from the regulation of a hundred twenty-dollars for debts to local government (OTA)'. 6. - The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Tourism, on "Privatization Proceedings of the Vimatic Sources by the Municipality". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. - The Question by MP Rodopi of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Haritou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Supporting tobacco farming in Thrace because of the pandemic and low prices'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The question asked by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr Constantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Selective filling of empty organic posts of the Legal Council of State". 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Arkuda: a governmental blow to its protection, the abolition of Action 4-4-1'. 4. - The Question by Mr Stavros Arachovitis, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Education and Religion, on the subject: 'Students in Sparta are being threatened with interruptions in operation due to the Minimum Base for Introduction of Law 4777/2021'. 5. - The question asked by SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Konstantinos Markos, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on 'Reflexive decisions on how to operate the driving schools'. 6. - The Question by Mr Ioannis Balafa, Member of Parliament, Mr B3' South Athens, Mr Ioannis Balafa, Minister for the Interior, on the subject of "Falirian Front Refreshment". We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Modernisation, simplification and reform of the regulatory framework of public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions on development and infrastructure’. Before taking the floor, Mr Ioannis Lovers, I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, for being one of them, like many other colleagues, who have contributed to giving the opportunity to the amendment under a general number 783 and a special 52, which refers to the provincial press, for an extension until the end of 2023 and, if possible, for a further extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u2	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u3	I see that all the rapporteurs agree, because the provincial press is a very vivid piece, which offers important, not only in information, but in all areas of activity in particular in the province. What is being done with today's regulation - you can see and expand this further - is important at this time, because you know that the economy does not work, with the result that ads in the provincial press do not exist. The only source of life is the opportunity given to them by this extension of publications. I, therefore, as a Member of the West Attica, who has a significant provincial press, believe by expressing the feelings of all the colleagues of all the wings that you support this provision in the provincial press. If you can, support him further with more extension of this time. It's given until the end of 2023. If it can, it can go further. You'll see. Thank you again. Mr Loverdos, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, of course, agree with you on regional press. I think all Parliament's wings agree on this. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, which we have been discussing since yesterday is an important bill, which aims to make procedures more transparent and stronger in public procurement, whether they concern public works or even supplies from the Armed Forces. Since yesterday, the majority rapporteur, Mr Bukouros, and most of the Members of the New Democracy who spoke, I admit that they spoke very well, had studied the bill and explained in detail what is happening. In the face of what I heard yesterday from the Members and the Ministers, I would like to stay on a subject that is more important to me than anything else. The question of public procurement is a question of democracy itself. It's, above all, a question of democracy. In recent years in Greece, what is being attacked is democracy itself, our own democracy. One of the reasons he is under attack is because he has passed through the world, passed to the public, passed to the people, the concept of the political system being corrupted through public procurement. This has partly been true. Clearly, there have been people who have been corrupted through public procurement and not just politicians, but public officials and entrepreneurs. That is what we had to do and we tried to restore it as a political system. There have been cases of ministers who have also been in the Special Court, such as Akis Tsohatzopoulos, who has been sentenced by the ordinary courts. There have also been cases of politicians who may have never been punished. That's true. But this is devouring the flesh of our democratic culture. Without confidence in the political system and democracy, it cannot survive. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is aware of this problem and that is why he is trying to bring draft laws designed to shield the quality of our democracy and restore the credibility of the political system. One of these bills and the bill we are discussing today and we shall vote, which is in the right direction, which is why I support it. You know, in Greece, like all peoples, we tend to level. There is a perception that all politicians are corrupt. Until a few years ago, all politicians belonging to the established parties were corrupted. Then came SYRIZA with the flag of transparency. We found that, in fact, he could not do anything different than everyone else. It's all the same. But everyone's in what? As far as the functioning of the civil society is concerned? Our city is above everyone. Democracy is above all of us, and we need to understand this once and for all, both citizens and politicians. They say 'the politicians are corrupt'. Is there any of the three hundred MPs who have not been elected by the Greek people? Has the Greek people, in his knowledge, voted corrupt politicians? That must be answered by the citizen himself. The second thing that exists is that all politicians cannot be corrupt, even if they wanted to. I, and if I wanted to be the most corrupt man in the world, since I don't own public authority, I can't corrupt myself. And most Members cannot corrupt themselves. Only those who have the ability to influence public procurement. And these are few. There it has nothing to do with whether the quality of one minister is better than another. He doesn't go to say that Chohatzopoulos started as a corrupt man. That you give him the ability to corrupt is within human nature and that must change. In order to prevent corruption, we must shield the status of public procurement. The current draft law is being guided in this direction. You're going to tell me: Will he make it? I have told you sometimes that it is not enough to pass laws. The House is voting for laws. With some provisions you may disagree. With someone you might agree with. The difficult thing is to apply the laws. Unfortunately, there are cases where you see that laws do not apply in practice. I'm not happy that every day there is an illegal protest about Koufontina. I am not happy that the Rectorship of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki remains under occupation. The laws must be implemented. Another thing is to vote for a law, and another is to apply it. And that's where I always have reservations. We'll see about that along the way. However, as a law, this is in the right direction, and it aims not only to ensure transparency, but above all to protect our own political system, democracy itself, so that no Minister, any civil servant, any state-owned businessman, can be corrupted again. Above all, it aims to protect public money, the public corps and our own democracy. Because, as you know, I always respect time and we must all respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I will close here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, and the consistency in time. Please prepare for the Step in order for SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Alexander Haritsis to speak. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the days that we should all be on alert for the immunisation of public health, the protection of the incomes of citizens, the support of society, we are here to set up another bill which, unfortunately, aims to privatise basic public services, the degradation of the environment, the centralisation of technical activity in a few large groups. While you remain, unfortunately, committed to neoliberalism, the world around you has changed. This change is impossible to arrest and understand. Because if you had understood it, if you had noticed that pandemic promoted the debate on strengthening and improving public control and the social organisation of the economy, you would not have come here today to effectively abolish public control on the quality and cost of public works, to assign basic responsibilities for technical services to private individuals, to load small and medium-sized enterprises with additional financial obligations, making it considerably difficult for them to make a sustainable claim to public works or supply. As for the environment, you continue its extreme degradation, bypassing even the European acquis. This is how you promote an obsolete and bankrupt model of 'development' - within many introductorys - which treats natural resources as a spoil of economic powerfuls. I imagine, of course, already the opposite: speeding up, simplifying, cutting red tape. No one can argue with those words. For us, however, these concepts are not empty. They are linked to greater transparency. They are linked to the ability of all, and of the small and medium-sized ones, to claim an equal role in works, services and supplies. And we proved that in practice. With Law 4412/2016, which you voted on, we adapted Greek legislation to European data. An important reform section that we have implemented in consultation with the economic operators. A substantive reform that set clear rules and timetables. A long-standing reform that ensured the public interest, shielding the social group against a possible risk to the environment and health. We have faced for the first time, since the respective 2014 law, in fact, has never been applied, chaotic pluralism in the field of public procurement and the phenomenon of systematic partitioning. We have strengthened the competition and access of small and medium-sized enterprises to public tenders, while at the same time we have achieved a 19% reduction in expenditure, in relation to budgeted amounts, with this reduction, in categories such as medicines touching 70%, and we have activated digital tools. We have promoted the further development of the Central Public Procurement Register, with a view to increasing transparency in public procurement and increasing economies of scale. Were there any problems? Of course, there were problems. Were improvements required? Obviously, improvements were needed. Instead of taking advantage of this positive pretext and treating the existing malfunctions, you are actually using them as a pretext for attacking the public interest again. After all, we are not telling you. It tells you, for example, the competent Single Independent Public Procurement Authority itself, EFSA, which in its review of the award to private persons of the power to oversee the study, says: ‘It is found that this article needs to be reassessed, primarily in order to provide a coherent and clear framework with the arrangements of Law 4412/2016 for the effective supervision of the preparation of a study, without prejudice to the principles of equal treatment, transparency and the protection of competition in relation to the award of these services’. Whilst for the limits on direct awards, EACH again states: ‘The objective scope of the exemption in question’, namely ‘it is very wide and is not delimited, as existing categorisation is not sufficiently defined by additional specific characteristics and criteria’. In order to prevent abusive application and in order to allow the lawfulness of those decisions, it is necessary to lay down detailed rules on the application of the possibility of direct awarding.’ This is what EFSA tells you about the privatisation of control and direct awards. However, instead of dealing with the substance of the matter, you are also invoking subscribing to give basic control mechanisms and public services to individuals. Without the systematic presence of public engineers, however, it becomes impossible to control the quality and cost of the controlled projects, let alone as the proper performance of the public works is certified by a simple statement of the contractor. Here, not only opposition, but also the actors in the technical world react to these plans, talking about international originality. Is that the answer to subsecution? There's a problem of subscribing. But what should be the answer? The further dismantling that will lead to dismantling in the long term? The conversion of the TEI from an institutional advisor of the State to a technical service? We have also said so in committee, and we have proposed and chosen another way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u7	She's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u8	I am telling you another direction that you could follow. What did we do? We have announced a programme of uptake of scientific expertise - especially for technical services in local government, a thousand five hundred for three years, 2019-2020-2021 - in collaboration with the CEDE, and after recording the needs in each municipality separately. What did you do with this program? We announced this as of December 2018 at the CEDEFOP conference. What did you do with this program? Sadly, this went to the bead of the unusable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In particular, however, at this time of the unprecedented crisis, we would also expect the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises to be strengthened. But here, too, we see that small and medium-sized studies and works councils are being charged with a number of provisions. We talked about it in committee too. Unfortunately, I don't have the time to develop it any more. It is, however, also part of the overall effort to get rid of and to be excluded from the small and medium-sized enterprises market. After all, this is what you do in the whole economy with disastrous measures, such as the click away, which raises the gap between large and small, with the adoption of the sense of surprise, has opened up - shut down on the market which affects the smaller ones in particular, with support criteria that leave out of the programmes mainly small ones, as they are in these days with'return 6', but also from European funds that appear to be out of the way for the next few years and through the systemic banks, small and medium-sized enterprises will remain out. The Pissaridis report, which describes the development of small and medium-sized enterprises as a burden. Of course, while the debate on red loan haircut throughout Europe has been opened, the Greek Minister for Finance, unfortunately, says, forget about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I request your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President. While untapped, unfortunately, the development bank is also staying, a very important arm of our financial system. It was created on SYRIZA, and with your consent at that time. It could, in particular in these circumstances, play the role of financing small and medium-sized enterprises. However, no new tools nor even rules of operation have even been in place for a year, not even micro-credits, which are a very important programme, have not gone ahead after so long. What are you doing in this bill? You're setting up an over-centralised bank control system. On environmental issues, I don't have much time to expand. A great deal of discussion took place on Article 15. Even greater discussion of the infamous Article 219 has of course taken place, which will be sure to employ Greek and European courts. However, I should like to say a word about this amendment, which was tabled late last night, and which blows down the demolition programme to sanctuary and beaches. You need to explain. At a time when almost all the decentralised administrations of the country have signed conventions on demolition, you are moving on to this horizontal and general regulation concerning all kinds of illegal evacuation, horizontal and general regulation. While only last November - three months ago - the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis, along with the Deputy Minister, Mr Tagaras, by letter to the decentralised administrations, said to speed up the demolition of arbitrary forests and saints. They said in the letter: In this effort you have our full support. What happened in those three months? What has come through now is no longer full support from the government? Why are you rewarding the illegality? I shall end with two amendments which we have tabled. These are parliamentary amendments from the SYRIZA side. I'll mention it very soon. One concerns the known lightning arrangements. You hastened not to accept it, to vote against it, while you are being cut, is supposed to upgrade the Technical Chamber of Greece. The first thing you should do is to abolish these unacceptable provisions that equate the five-year-old studies to higher education with a few years of study in private colleges and obligate professional bodies, such as the TEI, to register on an equal footing with graduates in private colleges. This unacceptable equation cannot be applied. And you should accept this amendment if you consider and say that you are interested in the credibility and upgrading of the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u9	And that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. I shall conclude with another amendment, which we have also tabled on the recasting of Article 223. It is a very important amendment to make the aid received by businesses and especially small and medium-sized enterprises from regional operational programmes irreversible, unreasonable and incomprehensible. Yesterday the Minister said he was interested, but there are reactions from the Ministry of Finance. You have to force the Treasury to accept this very important provision and make a commitment to implement it. It is a fair request from all the chambers and professional bodies. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I want the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u13	You have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like you, after the President's intervention for the regional press, to think very seriously, if you can, of this provision for the regional press to get it out of the other things we do not agree on. That's not good practice. You can tell me that you did it too, that other governments did it. So, as the President said, there is this consensus. In other words, we agree with what the President said on this matter. It's not right to put it in things that are irrelevant. It is not that you have an article that has similar things. It's completely different with the things we disagree. Please, if you can, look at it and make it a different article so that we can agree with the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u15	What do you mean, Mr. Comrade? For the press, it is an amendment that is separate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u16	Yes, but in order to vote for this regional press, we must vote on other things that we do not agree with. So, if you'd like, Minister, think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u17	It's understood, Mr. Chakaloto. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Manosos Voloudakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is not on the headlines. But it is one of the main prerequisites for tomorrow's development and prosperity. Because it is the institutional framework for public procurement that ensures that taxpayers' money is put at a place, that they take place in public works, in public procurement, in purchases of materials and wherever else it is spent. What is the status today? A very heavy, difficult institutional framework that has been shaped for decades. We have in the management of public procurement a number of problems which are visible through the naked eye, even by the non-specific observer. We have very long delays in the projects since the concept was captured until implementation. We still have too many distortions in relation to costs, with the prices prevailing in public contracts which, of course, lead to the collapse of the public investment programme. Why is this with the cost? Why am I claiming this to be the case with costs, with high prices in public works and contracts? It is very much about the institutional framework. The heavy bureaucratic institutional framework restricts competition. It limits competition to those who can qualify in this institutional framework. At the same time, an outdated price system, for public works budgets in particular, makes budgets out of reality. This makes it possible for candidate contractors to consult each other, to ultimately end up at project prices greater than the reality, than the market would justify. I mentioned in summary some of the problems because time does not allow us to see them all. Law 4412/2016, the last law passed on this issue, it is true that he has taken many positive steps, which is why he was also voted on by New Democracy then in opposition. But it is a law that has been amended about four hundred times in its four and a few years of life. That tells us a lot. Today, the co-legislative ministries, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of National Defence, bring together a bill that achieves a series of drastic improvements in this institutional framework, a series of real areas that can deal with much of the problems that I have mentioned. I shall refer only to some of these points in briefly. One of the key areas is the extension of the electronic process and tenders of lower value than those currently in force. Today the limit is at 60,000 - that is over 60,000 euros online - and that goes to 30,000. This reduces bureaucracy, reduces timing and increases transparency. For me, the most important aspect of this bill is the creation, with Article 84, of a single system of technical specifications and invoicing for public works, accompanied by an electronic system for determining the costs of public works. This may sound very complex, but I can say in a few words that it is essentially the basis for us finally to have a way of keeping the budgets regularly updated and constantly reflecting the market. We must not have, in other words, all the prices for anything that is part of a public contract for budgetary needs, a ministerial decision that comes out every few years or every many years in some cases. We shall therefore avoid the reality that exists today, in which everyone takes the view that the budget for a project will in fact be twice as high as what will eventually be the cost of the tender, giving, as I have said before, the opportunity for those who wish to make mid-term consultations to make use of all this margin. It is also particularly important to provide for the improvement of the status of projects entrusted with study and construction at the same time. In other words, the public does not expect to carry out studies and then carry out the tender procedures, but assigns study and construction at the same time. The provision of public works supervision is also particularly important and positive for certified private operators. This is necessary because public subscribing, especially technical services, is in fact making private supervision impossible. This, indeed, was our commitment to election today and is very right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But I also told the committee that there was a need for a change, in my view, in the article. I said that when we were still working on the bill, and for reasons of principle and order, I should say it today. It is also necessary - in my view - to have the possibility of private supervision of projects, but it is not possible to choose the supervisor, as is the regulation today. The Minister heard in committee some of the objections and made sure, by making an amendment to the wording, that the supervisor is paid by the public and not by the contractor. But it should not be chosen by the contractor. I believe that it is very easy to make a correction. In what way should it be chosen? From the register of certified bodies to be selected each time the drawer is selected. I will need your tolerance for half a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u19	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u20	I have another brief comment in the article on unusually low offers. Indeed, it is a problem in public works. A contractor comes in, offers a very low price, takes the project and then cannot implement it - he has done it either by mistake or by fraud - and expects to make additional contracts, asks for modifications, asks for measurements that will make additional work, to get more money. It therefore concludes that the unusually low offer costs the public more than what was supposed to be the exact ones. It is right that the Minister is trying to deal with this problem. I believe, however, that it is too small the scope given to seek evidence of the unusually low offer. This article is in 10% of the average bids. That's very little. Anyone involved - and in the private sector - with works and competitions, can confirm that. There is also a proposal in this article, which finally allows the contracting authority, even if one is on the average of tenders, to request the additional information. Will you tell me, is it wrong to ask for additional evidence? It is not bad, but we must ensure that there is no excessive discretion in any public body, in any contracting authority that can create shadows for transparency. These are partial observations in a very positive draft law, which deals with global issues both in the purchases of materials for public and public works and in the contracts for defence, an institutional framework for a new, transparent, modern and effective, which is a precondition, among other things, for us to be able to successfully absorb the resources of the Recovery Fund that are those that will ensure a period of prosperity for our country after the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. I would ask that the Step be prepared to get the floor for the MEP of the Change Movement Mr. George Mulkiotis. Then, in order for the rest of your time and your jobs to be planned, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement will speak, Mr. Scandalidis. Immediately after Mr. Scandalidis, Minister Papathanassis will speak and immediately after Mr. Papathanassis, the President of Greek Solution Mr. Velopoulos will speak. We will then announce how we proceed with the procedure, because today, the second day of the draft law, other Heads of State will speak, and Members of Parliament will speak, etc. I say this, in particular for the programming of fellow Members who see their name on the list, but they are not sure at the moment. So I have now defined a time horizon. But I'm going to redefine, and then I'm going to redefine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u23	Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u24	After the President of Greek Solution, will the list of speakers normally continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u25	Depends. Let me say something. When Parliamentary Representatives - Mr Gregoriadis has already asked for the floor at 12 noon - I cannot identify exactly the order of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u28	Here you go, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, if you are willing to take into account the fact that they are starting at 14.00 and the committees, where many of the participants and those on the list are rapporteurs. There is also a meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and a meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade close to all this. We would like your tolerance, your understanding, to make it easier for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u30	All this will be appreciated and appreciated, Mr Giannoulis, along the way. But when a party president asks why, he cannot be given no reason. It is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The same applies to parliamentary representatives. However, the Bureau at all times appreciates everything so that part of the Members can be facilitated, taking into account what you have said about other meetings and obligations in this House. Many times, in fact, we make facilities, for the work to be done, and on an individual level. But let us not waste any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, they are the same acceding ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u32	Good. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the Minister of Development to report that the employees of the PIPELIFE company in Thebe are in strike movements against the company's plans for collective redundancies. The Ministry of Labour must not accept this request, amidst COVID and a deep recession. The Ministry of Development, Minister, must not be confined to investment campaigns alone. You must immediately contact the company's leaders in and out of Greece and ask for the withdrawal of this decision. The factory is productive. There is a great demand for products, and even the competitors - you have heard - once they have learned that they have increased their prices. It must not be accepted, Minister, that the reason for the operation is that there is supposedly an unstable economic environment in our country. Take immediate initiative to save a whole process and a situation, because they will be ninety families - with hundreds of LNG - on the road and on a dead end. We support all your efforts. Take the initiative immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which, according to the government's rhetoric, seeks to reform the existing public procurement regulatory framework, to strengthen the Greek State's ability to make public investment, but also to make more rapid use and use of Union funds and financial facilities, especially in view of the NSRP 2021-2027 programming period, as well as the use of the Recovery Fund to support growth and strengthen the positiveness of economies. But, in my view, the oxymometer is that the Minister himself, in the course of a debate on it, admitted almost his failure, the day before yesterday in the relevant committees. What did he say? He said that all the instruments are tested in practice and that he'll see it in practice and whatever's stuck, he'll fix it. In other words, the Minister knows in advance that the bill, which with communications crowns a vote, will not only succeed in speeding up the procedures, but will also bring opposite results, endless procedures and delays. He will then come with new legislative interventions, corrective actions, of the already correcting it, as he said yesterday in the committee responsible, to justify that, because the Greek has been delayed by one year, we will change the law. I wonder: How do these thoughts and actions go hand in hand with the ideal state? Of course, the government itself rather than a transparent and more collective, but also a less messy government function, since it voted for it and for forgetting it the bill for the final state and again from the beginning. So on the altar of so-called speeding up procedures, in reality transparency, accountability, control over the lawfulness of public procurement, and certainly not the facility to inject money into the market. In fact, by invoking the need to absorb the recovery fund, there is a risk that this will become a dominant trend, with what this means for the final added value of the contract, but also for the management of the resources. Extremely problematic is the provision to increase the limit of the delegation, from EUR 20,000 to EUR 30,000 for supply and general service contracts and from EUR 20,000 to EUR 60,000 for public works. At the same time you reduce half the limit on the use of the National System of Electronic Public Contracts. The Government simply ignores the International Transparency Labellings Greece, which argues that in the guidelines of an attempt to modernise and improve public procurement procedures, transparency and accountability of the parties involved must be included. The International Transparency Greece has as its basic recommendation the mandatory use of the National System of Electronic Procurement and the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts, for the award and public disclosure of public contracts independently of their scope and amount, thus demonstrating articles that make this principle and trespass it. Why is the government doing this? Apparently, it doesn't suit her. It can't be explained otherwise. Of course, the direct assignments, for a year now, which the country has been living under lockdown conditions and under threat of public health, because of the coronary pandemic, have been produced by the government in a top - within importing - a 'effective' tool. Direct assignments everywhere, because this is appropriate in the final state of Mr Mitsotakis, who has identified the concept of transparency with that of bureaucracy in order to share the pie as he wishes. Another serious point we are raising about the draft law concerns how the work of the public works auditor and private individuals, which will be paid by the contractor himself. In this way, beyond doubt and questioning, an additional relationship between the contractor and the private supervisory body is created and the conditions of the necessary transparency are certainly not guaranteed. While so far there have been disagreements between the contractor and the supervisor, now the disputes can arise between the contractor, private supervision, public oversight, the head of authority and all of them together. This will cause major inconvenience and will also cause delays, while the disputes and legal disputes will increase. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the control of the legality of public contracts, this draft law, instead of the process of upgrading the existing framework, there is a very serious regression. For example, the incorrect provision of Article 40 for a decision to validate the results of the audit of the supporting documents, the evaluation of the technical and economic tenders and the supporting documents. This provision is given that it will cause a great deal of delay in the completion of the tendering procedures, because it will enable them to continue with the tendering procedure, even as contractors to economic operators who should have already been excluded from the first stage of the procedure. In view of the fact that a preliminary ruling may only be brought against the award decision, there will be no indication of the failure to offer at an earlier stage. Thus, the economic operator will even be called upon to submit evidence of award, delaying the procedure excessively, while their offer should have been rejected at an earlier stage. Isn't that what the government knows? If he does not know, then there is a major adequacy issue. But if he knows, things are even more serious, Mr President. He must explain why he does. I conclude by saying that the Change Movement, we want a public good administration on the one hand and a market that operates in terms of democracy, transparency and efficiency, which, unfortunately, neither the government of yesterday nor the current one sees it today. Development and transparency are processes which if they are not inextricably related, then the country will not be able to make much progress on socially and not just, but also on economic and hard-for-profit terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government presents today's legislative initiative as a holistic proposal for the framework for the construction of public works, describing the framework that ensures efficiency, transparency, flexibility and as is usually projected by its favourite motto as a great reform section. Of course, in this Chamber only great reform areas have been discussed all these months, so the word loses its meaning. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of representing the fact that the major public works have been carried out and literally changed the charter and the form of the country. He turned it into a modern European state. It is unnecessary, as you can see, to rename them. They're familiar with everyone. In those two decades, the institutional framework created obstacles. The state resisted, justice was slowing down control, and some important choices were delayed for a long time. Let me say the positive example of the airport or GEOFHYRAS and the negative example of the Land register, which lasted for too many years. The subsequent governments have not succeeded in implementing it. It is these problems that have led to the extraordinary process of building the Olympic Games. In order to be able to do the Olympic Games, it became that famous committee that did some works here and throughout Greece. Two initiatives have since been taken, one with New Democracy and Mr.Sufflia, who unfortunately went through history and did not touch, and one with the one with the law called "fast track" with the PASOK government in 2011, the difficult years of the beginning of the crisis. Our proposal has not, in my opinion, been correctly appreciated by the subsequent governments. I believe that it was not the final solution itself. But it could be the basis for a more radical legislative initiative. Meanwhile, we are living in dramatic conditions the simultaneous evolution of the digital world, where the technological revolution really gives the opportunity to get an effective, transparent and flexible process in the construction of public works. Instead, we arrived in 2016 to live the n.4412. It is not just the European directives which are, to a certain extent, being adapted to the new conditions. It is also the possibility of our own particularity, which is about the size of the state, the easy digitisation, the acquired experience, by exploiting the experience of decades we could shape a truly reform framework that responds to this need. Question: Is this a framework for what you are introducing today? Is it a real reform section? What are you doing? In fact, you are bringing about an amendment to Law 4412, which only took four hundred amendments to work in four years. Only your term of office, Minister, exceeds forty! In its version we are debating today, it is planned to adopt some 100 ministerial decisions, in accordance with the individual provisions, to implement them. Can this proposal constitute a cut-off, a new holistic proposal, it also be described as a major reform? No, no, no capital letters, no doubt. Self-determination in terms of the question of efficiency, flexibility and the treatment of daily delays and other related obstacles, they respond negatively. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of transparency, who regulates the criteria, grades, technical characteristics and procedure for registering the digital file? In white, the Minister. Who decides to supervise the project? The delegation organisation or the manufacturer? That is a crucial question. The answer is ‘the manufacturer’, which also pays the operator. That's unthinkable. I do not disagree with the idea of a private body with a transparent and relevant professional development, experience and course of supervision. This is where the registry function comes in. Governments should not be afraid of the construction of the registries, the registers that are transparent, open, are concrete in all directions and provide reliable bodies that could do and decide to assign a company to supervision if it is unable to do so with the mechanisms of the state. It is a completely different view from the one recommended by the bill. Not to mention an increase in the limits of direct awards or contract terms, for which no information is available, and a number of other events which have nothing to do with the actual guarantee of transparency. Do the system proposed by the government overcome the major delays in the tender procedures, excessive discounts, delays in the completion of contracts, over-prices and additional contracts? Here we are a long way from European regulations and other informal public works tariffs. It's a system that's not adapted to needs. The step you are taking, with the single system of technical specifications and invoicing, would be really positive and important if you did not refer it to ministerial decisions and supervisions. A simple, good public service would suffice with the necessary knowledge to address this particular problem. As far as NATURA and environmental protection are concerned, governments wishing to intervene in the name of exploitation invent definitions which they can give, as they please, the same content. What exactly does it mean ‘swirl development projects in the public interest’? Even the Scientific Service of the Parliament finds these expressions vague, since the type of investment is not clearly defined, the application zones, the general spatial planning and settlement plan, the clear indication of the protection conditions of the area. While invoking European dictators to go through documented positions, here you do not hesitate to clash with European legislation and the European Court of Justice's recent case law. However, the protection of the natural landscape and the environment is not only of a nature to tackle the wider problem of environmental impact, but also of a nature to make use of, as regards the real production resources that this country has - they are rich in this area - and there are only some political pressures on certain infringements, which are carried out at times, to all governments and to all Ministers, so that individual problems can be solved in an vague situation. As far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, with the provisions of a bill generally accepted, our rapporteur pointed out weaknesses. They do not obey a clear strategy to strengthen the defence industry, maintain and increase plurality in supplies and contracts. By choosing what I have to say clearly, it is in terms of flexibility that effectiveness is dubious. As far as transparency is concerned, my field seems to be darker than the existing one so far, more directed towards clear directions. As far as effectiveness is concerned, this can only be ensured in the decisions of the centre, but it is not guaranteed in the procedures, which have so far been the big problem, not what the Minister is deciding about what work will be done, but how this work will be done on the best and fastest terms. Finally, there are the provisions on the Development Bank that we support and vote on. The question is how much liquidity is guaranteed and where it is directed. Here the evidence is really catalytic. In principle, the resources are smaller - far smaller - than the banks and the Greek state in general were able to channel towards the market, while a large amount of resources are directed at class criteria rather than really objectively and productively. Here the model of governance has no hesitation. It brings together the resources available and directs them where it considers that individual business interests are best served. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a historic opportunity for the country and it is a historic opportunity - everyone is saying it - to all tons - and this is indeed a significant amount of resources which is going to be invaded in the country over the next few years. Here there is - to finish my position - one, if you like, a central confrontation. There's a myth, that where there's a concentration of everything, there's effectiveness and where there's decentralisation, there's a dissolution. Democratic planning is not a dissolution of the country. It is not just an institutional guarantee of democracy. It is, much more, a productive use of resources. Otherwise, a region of the country can plan, prioritise, complete project-building options, supplemented with the national plan, and otherwise an office next to a Prime Minister, who can make any use of the resources through his own arbitrary decisions. Inequality, social controversy, lack of regions are then created. It is therefore another democratic development planning and another centralised model of the so-called state of service that today governs the country. In this dimension your law is with one side, consistently serves concentration and inefficiency, without any transparency. That is why we shall vote against it in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u36	We thank Mr Scandalides and the consistency in time, as he always does. In addition, 'not much of the euphoria, but for the most'. To prepare for the step, in order for the Minister, Mr. Papathanassis, to speak. Following previous announcements, I would like to say again, for your convenience, that the Minister, Mr Papathanassis, will now speak. Immediately after Mr. Velopoulos, President of the Greek Solution. There will be a few minutes of intervention by some ministers - I do not need to tell you who, they have called - for clarifications on specific ministerial amendments. At about 13.00, Mrs. Gennimatas will speak, the President of the Change Movement and immediately after Mrs. Gennimatas, the President of Mera25, Mr. Varoufakis will speak. Therefore, you understand that in this period of time some colleagues will be very limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, to know, the list will continue after what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u38	Now, I've explained to you what the Rules of Procedure say. I can't do anything, that's data. Let's win the time, 'cause she's a Chiknamp. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today with today's debate and with the vote later this evening, in essence, a debate is being concluded which for us in the New Democracy it really started before the takeover of governance. So we have decided since that we will bring beyond the other reforms and a change in the framework of Law 4412, that is, the law that defines procedures for public procurement, essentially seeing what we would receive in July 2019 on investment activity in Greece. Will you tell me, is it acceptable for our home country to be a piggyback in July 2019 in fixed capital investments, to be at 10% in July 2019, when the whole of Europe was in the middle of 22%? Do you really realize what a country means to be at 10%, when Europe is at 22%, on the issue of unemployment, and how is all this Brain-Drain and the potential, the young people and young people who left Greece to be able to look for jobs elsewhere? I would like to start by focusing on two sentences of the former Minister and Department of Development of SYRIZA, Mr Haritsis, who I appreciate - he is not here at the moment - who said that the world around us is changing - and indeed the world around us is changing - that we want to press and continue on the European acquis and that L.4412 has made its circle really and needs improvements. But we, ladies and gentlemen, are not just talking about improvements here. We are completely changing the functioning of the law by transposing provisions - if you wish - of a law which was ineffective at another level, in order to create precisely this speed, flexibility, always moving within the acquis communautaire and without making any reductions to transparency. Since the whole debate here in Parliament was about whether it would really lose the public the ability to monitor public procurement, the answer is unequivocally 'no'. We should therefore see what we disagree. Because in the debate that took place, the main part of the opposition, and what we have heard so far and in the committees, is that we have disagreement on whether the public will really lose the ability to control public procurement. Since, therefore, it is analysed - I will speak a little further - that the public remains dominated by the ability to control public procurement and, in fact, by a security test, we are actually creating a strong regime which can release forces from the public and concentrate public attention on the completion of public procurement, speeding up the procedures. Mr Scandalidis, the former Minister, referred to the debate on transparency, and I would like to speak on that. We therefore have a law which has essentially worked a year with the setting-up of an interministerial committee - in which I was honoured to participate with other co-legislative ministers - and at the same time with the setting-up of two essentially legislative committees. Here I should also congratulate Professor Georgios Dilis on his amazing work and with the participation of really special scientists - professors who worked to create this new framework. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Bukkoro, for the very thorough and detailed presentation of all the provisions of the law. And because we are discussing L.4412 that made his circle - it was a 2016 law, which actually changed three hundred and eighty-five times - we are coming today to create a different framework, which really constitutes reform. He rationalizes, simplifies all procedures. With only three words we could describe him: we have public contracts that are always implemented within Union law at speed, transparency and efficiency. When we talk about transparency, it is important to open up the debate on what transparency means, because, within the provisions of the law, we are talking about electronics - if you want - management of EUR 30,000 or more. It should be noted here that this process was starting from EUR 120,000 or more. We have - if you like - transparency at the lowest level of competitive procedures. We are therefore opening up a creative dialogue that creates the basis so that small and medium-sized enterprises - which are the backbone of the economy - can be easier to participate in tenders. Why will small and medium-sized enterprises be involved? In the competitive procedures of over 120,000 euros, when with the existing scheme under 120,000 euros we received three offers? So, here we come and say that we create the framework of transparency for small businesses to participate in smaller competitions. We therefore agree - I think opposition also agrees with this - that we should reduce bureaucracy. So, let's see why you didn't agree on an article? Why did New Democracy come in 2016 and agreed to n.4412? Is it a matter of dealing with the provisions, or do you just want to oppose a bill in which you, too, are basically and deeply in agreement? And I will prove to you why. We are promoting greater use of electronic auctions to achieve competitive prices. Where do you disagree with that, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition? It extends from 1-9-2021, because here it takes a process of a few months, the mandatory use of electronic tools in all procurement procedures of more than EUR 30,000. Can you tell me where you disagree about having more than EUR 30 000 electronic procedures? We're limiting the written procedures. Where do you disagree with the restriction of written procedures? Why don't you say it? Say we agree on this and disagree, I know only 219. So we continue with the national central markets. Listen, the large commissions for the Greek State run from the national central markets. So where do you disagree that we should have centralised planning of national central markets and publish annual planning of supplies of goods not provided for in No 4412? We are also simplifying the procedures of the European Single Documentation Convention, which is typical, but we have not been doing so so that there are rules. Let us now see what we are limiting, without any discounts on transparency and competitive procedures. Where do you disagree there is a stage when there is the lowest price? Tell me, where do you disagree? Since at the end of the day it is audited by the competition committee. And where do you argue that the three stages should be reduced to two, when we have the best price that relates to the speed of the competitive process? In addition, we reduce excessive formality. You know that for a party etc. We had tender procedures that had the lowest price because of formality. Of course, the management agency - and here we have to stand - will never lose control of the public procurement. I wanted to answer that because it is something Mr Scandalides referred to. There is no public power being transferred to private individuals, ladies and gentlemen, we simply have a safety net, speeding up the quality of a project. Then, they're coming - be careful now! - the two points which the public administration can control and impose penalties. You have two people in charge that you can control in the course, and the private person who will do the check, but also the contractor. You understand what that means. As I mentioned to you in the committees, it is much better - and you know all those who have dealt with the projects and with the private projects - which today is not the case for the control of building buildings. You knew how this was done with the town planning officials and because of the sub-secretory. Today, then, the building auditors do it. We all know that the building control comes to the foundations, when the concrete is built, but also at the completion of the building. Is this system, or is it not, better, because the public has the ability to come and check whether the building auditor has done his job well, and who is responsible for the good and quality construction of the project? So we are discussing things with which we should agree in here, because it is simply reasonable. Of course, we are introducing the question of arbitration over EUR 10 million. I think this is a European acquis. All the countries of Europe have arbitration. So what are we? Aren't we a member of Europe? Should we not have a modern tool so that the state can quickly resolve a matter and raise us, if you like, in the Doing Business and make our country more attractive? Should we not create this beyond the image and messages we send? Should we really not create a country in which the investor, the investor, the Greek or the foreigner, knows that he can, in any case, find his right at a faster speed and always in the public interest? We are also introducing improvements and innovations that promote effective judicial protection of economic operators, simplification of the process, quick resolution of disputes and timely completion of competitive procedures. That's the quintusia of all the work we're doing. Now we are talking again about transparency, because it is of great importance. So here I will repeat the rhetorical question: Where do we disagree, when we allow preliminary consultations on procedures for the award of public contracts of high estimated value? In other words, we call on the market to say its views, which is something that the project puts forward. It creates, if you wish, the environment so that it can be checked whether this work is in the right direction and, of course, enable someone who comes in and there is one problem to make this problem public. Isn't that for transparency? We also create the possibility of uniform technical specifications, which you will all clearly agree to, so that there are the same rules on the market and that each body cannot create different technical specifications. What else do we do? We support the committee, horizontally and vertically, for remedial measures. I can explain to you what remedial measures are. When someone gets into a misdemeanor, he goes to a committee. Today this committee with Law 4412 is tripartite, involving three directors-general. I want to tell you that the general managers have infinite obligations every day. There are cases which are not even digitised. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will need two, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u40	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u41	In other words, one company may have suffered a misconduct, no record of this misconduct has been recorded anywhere, and another company with the same misconduct will come and get the approval for the fact that it can proceed to the tender. So what are we doing now? We put the President in essence of the ESDP and a member of five ministries. There, then, we are digging all the cases, so that any public body can see that the "x" company has this misconduct, so it does not go any further, so that everyone knows that anyone who has suffered a misconduct cannot continue in the competition. That wasn't there. But is it possible to disagree on this obvious matter? So we have a public database. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of things I want to talk about, but I will quickly focus on 'e-procurement' and electronic catalogues. Let's see what 'e-procurement' is. They are used by all the states and they are a framework competition, where the products are posted publicly, they will be fully audited and an organisation can enter and automatically order and buy what it wants. Because these will be the products of a public tender and they will also be subject to public control, if you like, of whether these products are qualitative and lower economic. The 'e-catalogues' are used in all Member States - countries that want to respect competitive procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, we have clearly spoken about the amendments and clearly support the extension, if you like, of the publications of the provincial press, regional and local press. But, coming here today, in the middle of the pandemic and preparing to come to the end of this pandemic, we really need to have prepared the framework so that we can get to the point where we started and very quickly speed up. To do that, it's not enough to say it. We are obliged to bring in and continue the reform work. That was the promise of our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, that is what the entire government is serving, and that is what we will bring to an end, so that our country can really speed up and bring back our children who have left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The President of Greece, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by expressing my sympathy to all the inhabitants of Thessaly. They're having a tough time. I hope that the government and its reflexes will be in the right direction and do not do the same with Samos. Because in Samos people are still waiting to get the crumbs they promised because of the bureaucratic maximum and all these well-known procedures. Speaking of which, Minister, on the control mechanisms, on bureaucracy, we must remember what happened in Samos. They got EUR 600 each and they're still waiting to fix their homes. Not to happen to these people too. I honestly don't know the 6.2 shooters how they might look. I don't know how many earthquakes you've experienced, but it's scary, 6.2 as size. Minister, I was listening very carefully. That's a good thing you've said. I really liked them. As you know, the problem in our country is not the control mechanisms that you say. Oh, no. The problem is who will check the control mechanisms. Because the scandals were born, my dear Minister, by these control mechanisms, which were poorly operated and operated. That's the truth. For example, the Committee on Indebtedness, for example, has acted scandalously to a company, I would like to say to you. It took fifteen years for a Greek, Polotopoulos and the beer "VERGINA" to find his point with the multinational beer company. Understand? Like this. Also because you were telling me about towns, I would say this: if it were me in the government, Mr Minister, from 1974 until today I would control all the employees of towns and cities, all of whom, to see where the money went. Didn't you know that building improvements were done with "ladder"? You know what I mean improvements. Something atrocious, something semi-seasonal, etc. You don't know that? It has been built and a state has been built upon corruption. That's the reality. Unfortunately, corruption continues because it is not the ministries and the ministers. They're the bottom strains. Because I know what a ministry means, no matter how good a minister has to do, if the members underneath it are not working, then we have a matter. And unfortunately, the officials of the ministries and agencies often don't work, because they are party-based, not worthwhile, consistently, despite the will that the state has to implement some things, the under-the-workers are not doing their job properly. It's just things. It takes real areas in the Greek system, which will really cut off the Gordian bond of this story called corruption in the State. Because it all starts from there. Let me not tell you that I have in my office numerous complaints about the contracts you have made with roads and national routes. They are infinite, Minister, for your ministries. Infinitely! Especially for the Peloponnese and the way there with Aetolakarnania, one of them, Mr. Ephietzoglou, had sent me information, where many people need to go to jail and change the competitions weirdly and made them photographic. But in the country where justice is directly or indirectly controlled, because we choose the judges - you, as a government - do not expect anyone to be punished. Not to say what happened in France with Sarkozy, not to say what happened with ministers in France. Unfortunately or happily, our legal system is not working properly, because governments are legislating on the basis of their discharge of any responsibility. That's the reality. In Article 30, Mr Minister, you say: Contract award criteria. I'm looking to find out, Minister, who she is. Listen to what he says inside: To get a job, the social criteria are taken into account, Minister. Where you say a social criterion, you mean getting a bonus, or even qualifying for a contest. You say'sensitive groups'. So, what are you talking about? That he has to hire an illegal immigrant who's getting paper as a semi-unlaw to get a bonus. Because the vulnerable groups, in New Democracy, are also illegal immigrants, along with some other groups. Both LGBTQs are vulnerable groups and all of them are vulnerable groups. So I think that some things are wrong and you're wrong, why? You say that for the contracts of the Hellenic Army, Minister, which is more than 30m euros, KYSEA will also co-decide. For the less than 30 million euros, does the CSCE not have a role? Shouldn't KYSEA have an opinion? So, what are you doing now? The Minister for a decision of up to EUR 29.999.999 and for more than EUR 30 million, needs the participation of the KYSEA. It's not right, Minister. I don't know how you feel about the bill. This is where you see it's a nice bill. No, you're wrong. It's not a good bill. It's perforated from everywhere, that's reality. I would, however, like, Minister, because for the bill, and the rapporteur will say so - and he has said so well - to tell you something that has disturbed me and I cannot understand why it does not bother all of Parliament's Members. There is a company, TELEPERFORMANCE, which is responsible for censoring Facebook. No one's talking about it. A company - which started as a collecting company, please - will censor the MPs for what they go up to Facebook, without asking whether that is a preventive censorship or censorship properly, downloading websites, downloading issues. I am the last, Minister, to defend Vaxebane, but the man reported it the day before yesterday, three days ago and curiously, as soon as the company realized that he became a dormant, he re-uploaded all the articles on Kufontina's history. He's blocking suspensions. Administrator, says, of Facebook shortly before the 2019 elections, a company I have information that has a good relationship with Piraeus underground, with Maximos, if you like, as a whole with New Democracy, becomes the Facebook policeman. If you put up something that bothers theirs, they put it down. Where is the state pulling them out of their ears? Who is this company, the 'TELEPERFORMANCE', which operates as a'minister of censorship'? Who are these gentlemen? Of course, at the beginning of the pandemic, the company started operating in secret as the EGE's phone center. Do you understand that? These are complaints. Is it possible that they would censor me? Acknowledging who? Who are these gentlemen? There's no care from the state. There's no government, no one's in control. They do what they want. We also have undeniably Hoaxes, other fraud, these gentlemen, because they are fraudsters and they pretend to be journalists, because they are not journalists. They censor what goes up and what they don't like. If tomorrow they don't like anything from Mr. Brutsi or me, cut, make news. So who controls these gentlemen who control us? Who controls Ellinika Hoaxes? Who? Where's the state? Where are they, who control and run blockades? They hit pages, make labels, thus dropping the sites, drop the posts and cannot be read by the reader. Let me tell you who these gentlemen are: Theodore Danilides, founder, Dimitris Alakos - a nice bouquet is this, I know it personally, of course, but bouquet -, Thanos Sitistas, fact checker, active military. Is it possible for you to have an active military officer at the "Ellinika Hoaxes"? Let's go below: Andronikos Koutroberlis, fact checker - that is, they control what we -, Giotis, fact checker, Stamos Archontis, fact checker, Stylianos Pournis, fact checker, Spyridula Markos, Athanasios Perdopoulos, Katsaunidos. I say: Who are they to control, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the truth or not of a minister's declaration? They're not even journalists. How can one government tolerate the 'Ellinika Hoaxes', the other company that controls the free movement of ideas? If, I repeat, we are given the possibility - and we ask - of four years and one year and the other will be shut down by the Greek Solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You can't be fascinated by MPs, no matter what the congressman says. If he does, of course - because he needs self-censorship from each of us - the limits, yes, to talk about it. But these gentlemen are doing the pedophiles. I repeat: let the government undertake to make one of its own make-ups, through the House, but not by the government on its own, inter-party. Who are these gentlemen? The worst of all, I was told by Thessaly, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time the earthquake took place, collector companies were taking phone calls and bothering people about their loans. So where do we live? At the time of the earthquake, therefore, collector companies were taken for the loans of people. Let's go to the rest. Minister, do you know what Gate said? It is very important for your Government: "Smart man is changing his mind, the idiot ever". You have to understand that you're making mistakes with the lockdowns, with the universal shutdowns. It's a crime, a universal closure as you do. For a year you have closed our souls. Why? Because you couldn't do the self-evident thing. You went out yesterday and talked to us about "smart" lockdown, "smart" universal closure. I saw an ad a few years ago 'the smart wheat', 'the smart broom', 'the smart bracelets'. They have now found the light bulbs of the New Democracy's finalisation of communiqué "the smart lockdown". The two-kilometre radius don't tell us, is the distance on a straight line? "Code 4," he says. He's got the right for the police to violate the home's asylum. The most sacred point of man's reference is his sanctuary, and code 4 can get the police into my house. Weddings won't happen. Admirals, he says, nine people with the dead, but, so, clear things. Because if the dead man is ten, there's no funeral. I wonder, gentlemen of the government, how you want to be persuasive. You want to close the whole world in there, I understand. We have the parties and you're all in favor of the vaccine, I understand it, I accept it. Why don't you arrest the gatherings that take place? Tell me what kind of government it is, who wants to be pressurized, who wants to shut down all Greeks in, but in the gatherings outside, you don't even get fines. The priest will put a fine, the clerk will put a fine. These are contradictions. On the other hand, you're making the cops make the juveniles to the civilians and the citizen hates the cop because he's fined him. The cop eats chemically with the civilians. Put the police in the heavy, dangerous and unhealthy at last! It's a dangerous profession. Why don't you do that? Also, we have asked the ministers seventeen - twenty times how much the cost of each lockdown every month is. One says 2.5% of GDP, the other says 3.5%, the other says 1.5%. Tell us how much a lockdown is costing the month. But the Minister of Finance says, but the Prime Minister. Everyone says what they want. Where is the government to tell us that every universal closure, every lockdown costs 3-4 billion? We say that 4.5 billion a month is. Because it's not just what we're losing, it's what we're not collecting. These are your accountants and your finance ministers, my Minister. They don't know financially. It is not only what you are giving as a state bonus for businesses - I will tell you that you are making mistakes here - but it is what we are losing as a state from closing shops. Don't keep the stores closed. People are going to go bankrupt, starve people, kill people, understand it. Find a way. Bulgaria opened, opened Austria, opened Germany, opened Serbia, opened France, opened Italy, only in Greece is closed the eyes and ears of the government and shuts down all the stores. Direct legislative initiative. We'll have unemployment problems. Listen to the oxymobile and how the state becomes a thief. Because, Minister, that reminds me of a pot. Listen to what you've done, Minister, it's a shame. You said 'pay traffic charges by Friday'. They all ran to pay for it and the next day you're lockdown. So you made me pay until the last day, I paid the traffic fees, and then you tell me twenty days later: closed cars at home. Why? Why are you stealing the world? Why are you looting Greeks' public and private property? What for? You tell me. Of course it pays the other EUR 255 traffic charges for a car that in the last four months consumed 40 euro gasoline. How is that possible? It's unauthorized. Also, I'd like to say a few clues. We are going full for gross national product at the level of 2000, i.e. 130 billion. Do you understand what that means, a country that had 250 billion years ago to go to 130? But debt is a debt of 1897, 240% of GDP. And it's not the government's concern. Mr. Staruras and the Prime Minister say everything is going well in the economy. But they just don't understand, self-evidently. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a little more time. Thank you. I'll give an example. In 1995 Portugal had a GDP of 120 billion. Greece then, in 1995, had 150 billion. Portugal, from 120 billion in 2020, went to 240 billion - it also went through the hole in the memoranda, less relaxed, but had measures - and Greece went to 170. When we say GDP, it is the wealth of all of us, the movement of money, the transfer of funds, the market is the value. Listen, 240 billion Portugal. I will not say about communist Romania, which went past us and went up one and a half times above us in GDP. What does that mean? In the last 12 years, all governments have condemned the Greek people. They seized him, took his livelihood, taxed him and didn't get "added" anything back by the Greeks. That's the truth. Portugal, to see how you make mistakes, had 24.6 million tourist arrivals and 20 billion directly revenues. Greece 31 million arrivals with 20 billion revenues. We're doing something wrong. It's not just the economic model of our country. It's all those mistakes. Because if you put fifty million visitors, my Minister, in a country to get 30 billion, the infrastructure costs are huge. I'd rather have ten million visitors and get 30-40 billion, than fifty million visitors and get 10-20-30 billion. It's just things. Because it costs the state as a whole. They're ruining their roads, their cars, our infrastructure problems, and we need to rebuild them. That means economy, that means producing wealth, that means "I make Greece". You only know how to do - not personally - is manage numbers. You're passing the man for a number. The citizen's not a number. I would also like to say one more thing. Why aren't the traffic charges paid back? Return the traffic charges money. Even the hunters stole the paradox. The hunters and the fishermen to get permission, my Minister, paid for a paradox. You banned them. Give the money back. You're like goat thieves, and I'm sorry to say that-- they're taking the money and they're gone. But if he owes 500 euros, the other one's after him to take his home. That's why I'm saying you made mistakes. Because the citizen then hates the state, hates you, hates us, hates the whole world. That's what we need to change. To understand why you are no longer persuasive - I no longer believe you - is coming out on 28 February 2021, at 09.33' in the morning at SCAI, the favorite channel of the New Democracy, the centre-right party, will now say that some: 'Chicn-fibre-fibre' at home. Nor parade in March'. It comes out after the three days, on March 1, 10.13' in the morning: "Lockdown doesn't make any sense. To open schools, shops, catering." These are the committee scientists. Now, the citizen, who doesn't have to be an infectious or pulmonary, hears Mrs. Monday saying that and Thursday say the other thing. How are you gonna be persuasive? You tell me. There are certain measures you need to take. Delete immediately all debts before and during Lockdown correctly and seriously so that there are no injustices. Avoid thousands of padlocks. Give an example. The public is the largest employer in Greece, unfortunately, Minister. The second largest employer is the focus and you've booked them a year now. Tell me now. These six hundred thousand regional workers in this sector called a focus if they all get into unemployment together, do you know what will happen to you? Half the people get out of unemployment, do you know what's gonna happen to Greece? For the purpose of calculating unemployment benefits for a year. Think of what crimes you've done with the closure of the market. Reorganise the economy. We can't go that way. Listen, Croatia opens outdoors, bars and restaurants, despite a slight increase in cases. It asks citizens to be careful, but it normally opens the market. Bulgaria opened up winter tourism. I don't know where your origin is, Minister, but we have Arachova, we have the Trikala Corinthias, which the Prime Minister has special love, because when we held condolences for Macedonia he skied there, we have ski resorts, we have Vora, we have the Fallar Mount, we have the Three - Five Pigadia. Open up, because the villages work regionally from rural tourism. People invested, waited to work. Unfortunately, the Greeks go to Bulgaria to make their skis. Sure, that's what we got, the ski. I'm saying that to understand. Also, listen here. In Bulgaria, free movement without a mask. In Greece you have already arranged for tourism with the mandatory vaccine. You guys are nice. In other words, Greeks will not make tourism this year, but if English tourists do the vaccine and have a certificate, they will come to make tourism in Greece. The Greeks won't be able to go to Halkidiki if he doesn't do the vaccine? He won't be able to go to his cottage? I said cottage. Mr. Minister, listen to sense. Luca, Rafina, they have some cottage people. Halkidiki, they have some cottages. Thessalonikios cannot go to Halkidiki in his countryside, is prohibited from prefecture. Let him go do a rapid test, go do it in the morning, ditch up to his cottage, do his job. It can have the water broken, it can have the currents cut. Help him out with the civilian. To stand by the state. We'll all be depressing. We'll be with psychophars. With the Hipnostedon, we'll all be in touch. Two - two and three - three take them to get us together. I'm saying that to understand it. Finally, because time is pressing, I would like to say this. You've flammed us with the vaccine. I don't really understand why, Minister, you're such sluts. I'm saying that to understand it. I cannot understand the Prime Minister's obsession with Germany alone. Yesterday, Minister, the Chancellor himself told them that Europe is a mess with vaccines and Austria alone will look for vaccines. You're followers of the vaccine. I'm not, I have my reservations. Do something. Why is San Marino, the autonomous in Italy, alone received a 'Sputnik' vaccine? The Italian mayor, Danelli, will buy from San Marino the “Sputnik” vaccine and bring it to his municipality. So why do we have to rely on Germany as well? But let me tell you why we're doing this. The country's Prime Minister, my Minister, is coming out, and he says 'as a small country, I would not like to negotiate alone with the big pharmaceuticals'. I shall submit this to the Minutes of the House. The Prime Minister comes out and says that Greece is a small country and does not want to negotiate alone with the pharmaceutical industry. And it comes out of San Marino, a small spoonful, and it negotiates and gets. So how much further will this country - I will say directly - be unsuccessful of all the leaders, of all the ministers, of all the Members? Hungary why could it? Hungary why did it? Hungary did. I would also like now to inform the honourable Members that I have an investigation in front of me. Here it is. A friend from England sent it to me. Ladies and gentlemen, let me see you now and listen to you. It's the internal information material of the vaccine. I'll submit it to the Minutes. This is the pamphlet inside the vaccine, Minister. So I'm reading you what the vaccine contains. Adenovirus chimpanzee. Here it is! Don't laugh, Mr. Villarde. Human embryonic kidney. Genetically modified emulsifier. I really expect answers from the government and the scientists if all of this is true. Research by The Journal of Antibiotics. Mrs. Lazaris. The European Institute of Bioethics. Today's announcement. Vegetable cells from excreted embryos or abortions. It says so. Formally adopted by the Council on 12 December. I say: is it possible to play with people's health and not to tell the citizen what we give him what it includes in it? Some people have moral barriers. Maybe I don't have one, you don't have one. Some of them have. Also, the exhibition comes out at "The Journal of Antibiotics" and says that colchicin reduces invasions by 50%. All the investigation at your disposal. Here it is. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Here it is, real study. I welcome the Minister of Development. It's a regular study, isn't it? No fairy tales of "sleepings in the war." What does this study say? Mrs. Lazaris. It was published in an official medical journal. It says icochicin reduces invasions by 50%. I do not understand that this government does not understand the obvious. The vaccine is prevention. We have a coronary, so we don't go for prevention, we go for treatment or suppression. Suppression is drugs. Jesus Christ! The Prime Minister is waiting for the vaccine and does not take the drugs to solve the problem. The vaccine, which he doesn't do anything himself, so he can go and pick it up. Also, with regard to the medicine 'REGENERON', Mr President, I said it in September - October - and you were making me laugh most of the coronary drugs. The European Medicines Agency - November I told you here, date 12, 13, I do not remember - says 'yes' to the use of the antibody cocktails to fight the problem. What we said in November would be done by the government and did not do so, the European Medicines Agency is now saying so. How ahead the Greek Solution is! You can say what you want for us. We came here just for suggestions. No populism, no extremes, no ougana, nor people who want to criticise criticism. We want to help any government. I'm also going to say it again to all of you. If you say the virus is deadly - and I address the left and left - why are there concentrations? Tell me how we will convince the citizens to stay home when left-wings themselves are in total, the Left is gatherings every day. And how am I going to convince the government that it is serious when it does not impose fines on those who do gatherings? I say it, not that I am in favour of fines, no, but here the world no longer believes us. They start to wonder who the liars are and who the lame ones are. Listen, Minister, what government you are. And I'm hanging up here. Something that the Prime Minister is diligently hiding and something which I am sad about is that the countries of the European Union have no contractual obligation to align their health policy with the European Union. No signatures. That is why the other countries are looking for themselves and we only have the Prime Minister looking for Germany. Let our slave attitude to Germany stop, because the Germans are addicted to having slave peoples and slave prime ministers. The Greek neither can a coward be a slave. The Greek is free, he is a democrat and he likes to live and breathe without having chains in his rain. Let the government know. To close, my Minister, school meals. One hundred and eighty - five thousand poor people, poor students and families will not have school meals. Why? Tell me why, my Minister. Here's our friend, Mr. Georgiadis, with sensations. Why don't these kids have their school meals? Find a way to have them. Is that so hard? On the other hand, because Mr. Georgiadis is also religious, I should like to say to him that there is a circular of the Ministry of Health that deletes the phrase "morning morning due to a coronary". I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Not even prayer can be done. So the gatherings take place, the marches take place, the buses enter into each other. I forgot. I am still waiting for the Prime Minister's studies on buses. I guess they're coming by bus from the Yanna. By the time they get here, it'll take a few months. Get me the studies the Prime Minister has told me that buses are not stuck with the coronary. Bring me to make them flags and make Europe jump up to the bottom, turn Europe backwards. In closing, I'd like to say something about Mr. Koufantina. How many of the left have Koufantina's second book been read? Nobody, I'm sure. Have you read it? A book in favour of nationalism and Turkey. The geopolitics of "17 November" from Greece and Turkey. Read a little, gentlemen, on the left, what it says. He's talking about addiction. Kuffadina's talking about other things. On the other hand, I am sure you will understand that. For us, Mr. Ministers, life is life. Constantine Karamanlis said it was the first thing to do. But when we say life, it'll be life. Life cuts don't take place. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But I'm recording a strange phenomenon of consensus and disagreement. New Democracy and SYRIZA disagreed with Koufantina. I understand that. They confess to the memorials, confess to Prespes, Greek-Turkish, pandemic, vaccines, immunity to bankers, transfer of private property, and their only problem is this, Koufantinas. In the big, then, they agree SYRIZA and New Democracy and the Change Movement - there is a prelude to cooperation post-election, it is a given, co-government - but they disagree only with Koufontina. It's the security valve to collect our party audience. My friend, Mr. Georgiadis, plays it a little "law and order" and SYRIZA plays a little bit left, so they think that they gather the crowd of the world so that they don't do anything about the centrifuges that their parties have. So I challenge, if you want law and order, today to arrest those who do rally if you are government. I don't suggest, don't get confused, no. But to prove how politically negative their attitude is, how politically they have themselves. Also, I'll say something. You know, the living have a right to a hunger strike, Mr. President. But this dead man doesn't have Axarlian. He doesn't. We are talking about human rights. He didn't have human rights and the other dead? I'm saying that to make some people understand. To close, therefore, I would like to say why this state will never become a state. Because Members and ministers have never been punished. Mostly ministers. The MPs have nothing to do with it. There is never a legal framework in the Arable Ice, in which the party's programme is submitted and when one of the things that derogates, the party is deducted. Never. Others say election and other people do post-elections: Embassies Agreement, etc. I'll tell you what happened in France. Two presidents were convicted, Sirak and Sarkozy. Two prime ministers, Villen and Fillon. And on March 4th, a new charge for Baldar is expected. So tell me how from our own ministers, with so many scandals, with so many memorials, with so many betrayals - Prespecies, etc. -, with so many mistakes, there isn't even one who was really punished. Don't tell me that there is political responsibility and that the elections are punishing. You're wrong. Stop legislating for the immunity of the ministers. Stop legislating for the immunity of bankers. Stop serving your oligarchs. Stop serving the pharmaceuticals. Stop being accountable, entrepreneurs and, above all, serving international capital. You become a Greek government, because you rule Greece and not Uganda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u44	The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has asked for a small intervention. Then the Deputy Minister will take the floor for three minutes to the Prime Minister, Mr Lebanon, to be placed in the general number 783 and a special 52 amendment. Immediately after - I make the announcements - Mr Giannoulis will take the floor. Then we'll move on. Mr. Vesyropoulos has been here too. I told you that some ministers would intervene in a few minutes to put them on the table. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Velopoulos left, but it's okay. It's his parliamentary group here. I will only speak for one minute, so that conspiracy, at such a critical moment, is not allowed to cause impressions and to lure our fellow citizens. Mr. Velopoulos said we're going to the vaccines and spending money on the vaccines and refusing to buy the drugs that fight the virus. It has shown the approval of REGENERON's monoclonal antibody cocktails, implying that we could buy the monoclonal antibodies of REGENERON and prevent pandemic. Just to hear and understand what we are talking about, I would say: monoclonal antibodies, a very complex biological agent, are produced with very great difficulty. REGENERON has announced that when it reaches the maxim of its capacity to produce - it is still not there - it can produce eleven million instalments a year. Today we have forty-seven million active cases on the planet. So the possibility of the states buying the whole population the monoclonal antibodies of 'REGENERON' actually stumbles. There are neither the relevant quantities for the entire world's population with the technologies known today. Consequently, the only practice that has been found in humanity, set up by the World Health Organisation and that follows all states, is mass vaccination of the population. I would also ask the Greek Solution not to undermine, not the national effort in this case, but the human effort. Mr President, I would like to make some legislative improvements to the bill. I would ask that they be distributed, so that they can be informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u46	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to fellow rapporteurs and those who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u48	Here, Mr Heta, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u49	For a minute, please, because we have said too many times that everyone is responsible for what they say and not for what each listener understands. I guess the Minister didn't understand what the President of the Greek Solution said. We have neither compromised nor created impressions nor fired fireworks. I would remind Mr Georgiadis that his presence in the Greek Parliament has been reduced, because we are here every day. And I remember very well since November, Mr President, the President of the Greek Solution to talk about Trump's medicine, to talk about monoclonal antibodies, to talk about colchicin and below laughing. So the Greek Solution has said so since November that the use of drugs has helped reduce the intensity, if you like, with which a patient will be hit, but also the healing time. That's what we said. As for all the rest that Mr Georgiadis said, I do not know exactly what he understood and what he did not understand. In order to make it clear, however, we are saying again: when we talked about Trump's medicine in November, it is likely that what Jerome took, there were people laughing and telling us dangerous. Also, the World Health Organisation, as Mr Georgiadis referred to, withdraws every two to three months. There's a development, he tells us something. There's another development, he tells us something else. We are clear. That is what we said: it is not just a panacea, it is the vaccines, which are the drugs, which are the only ones that are weak. Vaccines are made in the population. One more, the other one. That's like clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Heta. As I have said before, the State Secretary to the Prime Minister, Mr Lebanon, has the floor for the amendment of a general number 783 and a specialist of 52. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. For the amendment you have just mentioned, and in particular Articles 3 and 4, which concern powers of the General Secretariat of Information, I should like to say that Article 3 essentially states that advertising contracts, which were concluded at the time of publication of Law 4764/2020, continue and apply. This is done for reasons of legal certainty, because both the Civil Code and the Constitution cannot give retroactive effect to the law. As regards Article 4, it is an important breath, especially for the regional press, as the compulsory publication of notices is extended until 31 December 2023. Already in December 2020 it was extended until the end of this year, so it extends for another two years and goes until December 31st 2023. It is an important factor, which serves other reasons than support for the media, regional newspapers in particular. It concerns transparency and better information for interested parties. By the way, I should like to inform the House yesterday of the escalation in the Tirnavos region, which was affected by the earthquake. There are currently workshops from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Mr Karamanlis will discuss this in detail. Last night an inspection was carried out in public buildings, including the three town halls, health centers, hospitals, nursing homes, so that their situation could be determined and the guests returned within the night. With the contribution of the Armed Forces, a central operational headquarters has been set up on the old naval base at the entrance of Tyrnavos, where all the relevant services involved are located, in order to ensure better coordination. The Government spokesman will announce a package of measures to be taken for the earthquake affected, including housing assistance, state aid for rehabilitation of affected buildings and aid to be applied for by the municipalities concerned and the region in order to repair public infrastructure. We were there the first time. We're almost three to four hours after the phenomenon. The situation is good. I would also like to congratulate the Director of the Municipal School in Damasi, who, together with my fellow teachers, managed safely, without really being injured or at least a student, getting out of the building, which is actually under collapse, 60-three elementary students. They really deserve this man, many congratulations on the high sense of responsibility. I think it's a typical example of a state minister, a teacher who honors his function. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u54	Here, Mr Brutsi, you have the floor to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor to the evolution of the move from the Step of the House to the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos. If it were only a political issue, I would not do so - and Mr Heitas, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution - but it is about the health of the Greeks, the most important good, Mr President, that we recognize here in the House and that has been said against the coronary and you see the efforts made by the Greek Government. Concentrating on Mr Velopoulos' position, in his attempt to become attractive and adorable he sent a double message. The first message was about Lockdown and that, in the end, it is wrong and how the businesses must open and work again. At the same time, for vaccines, which are at the moment the only solution, the real solution to build the wall of immunity, it showed that there are means of ingredients that it called and which are dangerous to the human body. So you see a contradiction, gentlemen of the Greek Solution, which is not politics, is dangerous to people's health. Because you are sending a double message, casting doubts, reflection, at the most critical moment for the health of the Greeks, while today the Greek Government has managed to break every record, a million vaccinations, while at the same time you see that the ICMs are filling up, precisely because of many conditions and that our performance as a country is still one of the best in Europe. Therefore, the message I send to Mr. Velopoulos and to the members of the Greek Solution is to be more careful in their position. Not everything goes into the balance of political feasibility and political benefit. There are issues that go beyond red lines, those that are called health, for example, which is the dominant issue that we all fight in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I would like the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u58	No, Mr. Colleague, you don't have the floor. Let the process go a little further.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u59	I too, Mr President, would like to speak on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u60	You don't have the floor either. Mr Giannoulis has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reason out of order is given to Parliament's representatives only. No one else. The Minister's gone. If you then raise your hand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u61	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Lebanon isn't here. I look at you all, I see you and nobody asked for the floor. Mr Lebanese so far has been here, but nobody has asked for the floor. Planning for the next time - because this is how we will go all day - is this: for very short, for a small amount of intervention, for the amendment, with a general number of 776 and a special 45, Mr Vésiropoulos will be given the floor. Then for six minutes - for half a year, because they have two parliamentary representatives - the reason will be given by Mr Claus Gregoriadis. Immediately afterwards, because we are trying to proceed with the list, Mr. Maraveyas, Mr. Manolacos, Mr. Dritsas, Mrs. Adamopoulou, will speak. All of this, provided that a number of ministers are always coming in to intervene on the amendments that are responsible. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me, with great respect as a new Member, to make a point. It would also be good if the Ministers and Parliamentary Representatives were to adjust their practice a little bit in relation to and waiting for the Members to participate in the process. I am very respectful and modest to make this observation. Mr. Lebanon's gone, but I have an honest question. It is a rhetorical question, because the political practice and the spirit of the New Democracy have given it the answer. Why, until 31/12-2023, prolonging support for the regional press, when we all know that its importance for highlighting local problems is central to the operation of democracy, the accounting process and local powers? SYRIZA - I remind you - has tabled a relevant legislative proposal for the continued implementation of this measure without time-limits. What's he doing to a young man in the tiles? What have we got in 2023? Elections, if not national, certainly self-government. I hope that Mr Lebanese will see this, despite the important tasks he has as canalarch and media manager, since, in serving with the Prime Minister's office, he also has the responsibility - world originality! - and the Public Television and the Athenian News Agency. Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Brutsi - even in his absence - the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, something personal. Last night, my son asked me something, who is 17 years old and is in the generation that has experienced the double crisis, bankruptcy in 2009 with the responsibility of those who were ruling then and the pandemic crisis, which is clearly not the responsibility of the Mitsotakis Government. His responsibility remains for how he tooled and managed in the next few days. So he asked me if my son would be a terrorist, he asked me if I was to be a '17 November' arm. I really want to stop this toxic climate that corresponds to either rhetoric, arguments, practice, the public presence of all of us, if Mr Brutsi thinks that I should answer my son that I am a nostalgic friend, a supporter of terrorism. Because I answered "My boy, my arms only have to do with this life and in this democracy are to give the hand of solidarity and love to every man who needs it, to rescue and to maintain our efforts to improve life - life! - the human being and not the death." You'll tell me now what this is all about. They have, because the main issue that arises from the debate and beyond the thorough views expressed by the whole of the Opposition is that you are not listening. Because I see Mr Dritsa coming to the Chamber now, perhaps the same question could be put to the Minister for Development, who yesterday, in response to some of the issues that have arisen, suggested that the party I am serving and elected with the vote of the Greek people, like the other eighty-six colleagues, does not belong to the parliamentary arch. I imagine these toxic reports will leave us next time. So I was talking about the bill. Its basic pathogen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, is that you do not listen as a government. You are not listening to the Opposition and you have an obsession to think that after you have manifested the anti-SYRIZA in vain, all issues have been closed on the substance. I will say with two examples what you do not hear, about the development of the pandemic and the really very difficult situation in which Greek citizens find themselves, regardless of what they choose or what they choose in the next elections. One is the Ministry of Development. I want your help, Mr. Georgiadis. I want you to tell me - let me know if you intend to heal it or if you have already healed it - whether aid, subsidies, even regional support programmes or financial instruments, rather than loans, remains inappropriate from commitments to insurance funds and other organisations. Tell us if that is what you really intend to deal with, because it comes cumulatively as a cry of agony and as a complaint and as a tension from the people of entrepreneurship and the market. The second concerned Mr Karamanlis. It is in the affected area, where we express not only solidarity, but also our support for whatever it takes, so that the phenomenon of Karditsa, Thessaly, Trikalon and other affected areas is not yet established. It concerns the protection of citizens in the media. As Mr Karamanlis moved us to the finger - it is the second with this particular study to allocate his time between anti-SYRIZA rhetoric and inertial government - for the tenders, for buses, etc., I will say that the Court of Auditors comes with a decision of a slap, which says that the three hundred buses of OSH - are identical to those which the national supplier gives to Thessaloniki as well - are dangerous for the safety and transport of passengers. What's the answer? Is it SYRIZA's fault? Again the same account? Is the Court of Auditors manipulated by SYRIZA? Do we avoid responses to the substance in order to create an artificial scene of tension, noise, nonsense and arrogance at times, so that we do not get into the essence of the issues and respond to the citizens? Good. These three hundred buses were found to be inappropriate by the Court of Auditors. So what do we do now? Do we continue the scanning process, with the viral load leading the country to almost deep red, full deep red? Now let's go to Law 4412 in the seconds left. L.4412, with the turn that he's taken, reminds me of 112, which you use when you want, when it suits you or when you judge. It is a tool that is not used primarily for the needs of citizens, but for the needs of politicians and government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you give me your tolerance, Mr President, for 20 seconds, I will continue to say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u64	Go on, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u65	The call, beyond the atopicity of public dialogue, is for the government to begin to listen to the opposition as a whole, for the productive proposals that it puts forward as an antidote to indulgence and chaos. To listen, for example, to the public health programme published two days ago, involving people who are not in the tank and SYRIZA's narrow party well. To hear here that at Law 4412 TEU. It's not a solution. To hear also here that technology engineers can no longer be subject to disciplinary control by the TEI, but do not even have the right to join the TEI. To hear here that thousands of signatures of citizens and organisations to add and change what is in place in NATURA are the result of a lack of confidence, when you suddenly suspend demolitions of buildings in very sensitive environmental areas, clearly with micro-party targeting. Law 4412 is the one introducing the global prototype phenomenon - and we say it again and we do not get convincing answers - that the controller cannot be a verifier. However, I do not have to delay other colleagues any longer. It is a fact that your political idea is to disintegrate and weaken anything that has public control and public character, without wanting to improve it. Because that's where we all have a responsibility. A better public don't want it. You don't have the goal of improving, just demolition. Unfortunately, this is not just about public procurement, it is about every public function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u67	I would like to say a few seconds, Mr President, in relation to what has been said about the amendment we tabled on the provincial press. The government took a brave decision, as you know and transferred the end of this provision to December 31, 2023. The Government has taken care and tabled an amendment extending the period of publication of the relevant notices until 31 December 2023. My dear colleague has accused us of doing so for the 2023 elections and of not adopting the SYRIZA proposal for the two-month period of publication. In order to restore order in our so-called words: SYRIZA may have tabled a proposal for the inter-month term, but SYRIZA as government and Mr Stathakis had specifically passed the law on their termination on December 31, 2020. Of course your argument on elections could be reversed and someone would say that the reason why Mr Stathakis then put it on 31 December 2020 was precisely the elections in 2019. Consequently, I repeat that SYRIZA by law predicted the ending of three years earlier than New Democracy is now doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u68	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor, in order to be placed in the general number 776 and a special 45 amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt the bill that came for discussion and a vote in the House is a great innovation. It simplifys and updates the institutional framework for public procurement and public works, makes it flexible and effective. I do not need to point out how important this is at the current juncture. Especially when our effort to relaunch our economy is inextricably linked to the high absorption rate, which we must pursue with regard to the resources of the Recovery Fund and the ESRB. Accelerating major projects that have long been in an advanced stage of maturation, but also in the implementation of projects that remain on the bells. That's exactly the aim of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to refer to Article 3 of the Amendment No 776 and to specific number 45, which suspends until 31 October 2021 the execution of the demolition and elimination protocols for works of all kinds built on the cavalry and the beach, on the bank and the coastal zone, on the water element, on the bottom and underground of the seabed, on the lagoon, on the lake and on the river bed, without a decision to grant them. This is not about the legalisation of arbitrary actions and constructions, in no case. On the contrary, the aim is to have the necessary time to correct errors made, since the demolition protocols include constructions that have been incorporated into the law on legalisation of arbitrary structures. At the same time, however, this time is necessary to provide the necessary documents from citizens and businesses, but also to examine all objections and data. The reasons for this time extension are clear. It is because, firstly, the pandemic and the restrictions resulting from the measures taken, which make it difficult for citizens to exercise their right or to gather information and documents. Secondly, the unfavourable position in which many businesses have come, particularly in the tourism sector. Above all, in this period, we will be able to work on the necessary changes in the direction of the processing and modernisation of Law 2971/2001 on Agialou and the beach. We have to see the possibility of legalising other types of projects, in addition to what is currently included in the law, but always in terms of public interest and environmental protection. For this reason, the Government undertakes an initiative to suspend the demolition protocols issued by 31 October 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Minister, and for the time economy. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Claus Gregoriadis now has the floor for six minutes, because Mrs Bakadima took the other half of the year. Two Parliamentary Representatives have been appointed since Mera25. Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor and we wish you well since you have had a health problem in the past few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President, both for the solidarity and the feeling that we must have here that we are a group and we are all in the interest of the Greek people and the good of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember another week after Maria? I don't know how many of you remember her, how many of you still do. I'll remind you who Maria is. She's a new girl. I don't know what aged. In the picture on Facebook, he looks like a little kid. She might be older. She is a young girl who, in persuasiveness of all the difficulties she has had in her life - as she has had difficulties in the life of Thanasis, Giannis, Sofia, who she mentions in her letter - insists with thousands of other children trying to become a scientist. These children work eight or ten hours a day and read another five hours a day. One wonders when these children find time to sleep, feed and go to school as they go to mid - school. In her second letter, Maria who wrote to me the other day said: "The sense of duty I feel toward the fellowman has made me want to become a social worker." Maria continues - who cares about the public as it seems - saying "What happens these days is a matter of the whole society. Perhaps this big bamboo has happened..." - it is obviously referred to in the 'Me Too' movement - 'to finally start getting things in place'. He concludes: "We will not leave the fight. We will defend our rights and let us all hope for a better tomorrow." I would like to ask the Members of the Complex by hand in the heart as I always do: do you want us to unite and annul Mrs Kerameau's decision to prevent all the Marys of this country from becoming social workers or teachers or teachers or teachers or scientists or nuclear physicists or anything else you can imagine? Do you want us to join forces and tell her that this little one isn't right for her, but huge for these kids theme? I am talking about the subject of the specificisation of the base at each school, which will leave the children of the summer high school outside the universities. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that these children are our children, all of us, and we are all responsible for the next generation of Greeks in here. These children in adverse conditions compete not equally with our own, real, natural children, because they have to work. I'm closing the matter. Yesterday there was a big earthquake. We've noticed a lot. The most important thing I have noticed - we must all observe it here at some point - is the situation in which school rooms are located throughout the country. This is a tragic situation. Did you see the school that collapsed in part, as a wall fell and they were the kids inside? By self - sacrifice of teachers and bystanders they have survived! I saw it. It was going to collapse, it was a matter of time. What are you, then, of the New Democracy? Are you bad people who want to kill people's children? I can't believe it. I think you're not bad people and you don't want children to die. I believe, however, that it is very dramatic once again what Mera25 has claimed for years, namely that as long as the close surveillance, as it is now called - falsifiedly completely - this troika, this terrible troika, will not let you give a single euro for the schools, schools will collapse with the first earthquake. I'm going to the second theme, the pandemic. Old-fashioned, old-fashioned, old-fashioned! Why haven't you ordered the private sector yet? Why are you proclaiming in every direction that although and when it is finally on check, it will only be about non-COVID incidents? Why are the parasitic clinical chiefs above all of us in this place? Why do you allow it to happen? Also, after a year of pandemic and after more than half a thousand dead from this pandemic, why does a government dare not have hired a permanent doctor yet - for God's sake? It's not a normal thing. It's nothing but nature. And it's a disgrace to all of us, to the entire National Representation. People die and will continue to die and we have hired contractors of six months and one year. We give a fog - I repeat it from this Step - a blurred number for seven thousand people and the Prime Minister refuses to cut down, say how many of them are doctors and how many are sanitary people. He refuses to do so for twelve months now, because the vast majority are sanitary. Contracted doctors who will fly back to unemployment, from which we received them, are only hired for six months or for one year, and then, because we have seen that the pandemic continues, we are renewing their contract. What kind of hypocrisy is that? How do we demand that these people fight and die completely helpless? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So since we're at the pandemic, you know what I mean by the term 'pallies'. We're opening the retail trade for a week, closing it for fifteen days. We do lockdown, but we go around town and it's more full than when there was no "lockdown". Old-fashioned, old-fashioned, old-fashioned. But there are two very important parameters. Let's talk about public transport. Watch a news report on TV and choose any station from your parasitic canalarch friends you want. They can't avoid it anymore and show at peak time how our buses are. It's like people are sardines. So don't wonder we had two thousand seven hundred cases yesterday! We will have more than three thousand next week, because they continue to be salvaged and sarcastically sarcastically sarcastically sarcastically sarcastically in public transport, which we Members have the privilege of not using. They also continue to salvaish in their workplaces, factories and multinationals, where no state control has existed for twelve consecutive months. Things are starting to get tragic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, on the subject of our legal culture. So far, ladies and gentlemen. Look, November 17, this undercover terrorist organisation that killed unarmed people in this innocuous way that it did - I'm sorry, as if there were moral murder - has been no more than seventeen consecutive years. There is no such organization. We dismantled it, thank God! The people who excommunicated her are no longer terrorists, they're prisoners, they're barbies. They have a different status. They should therefore be entitled to all the legal advantages laid down by our legal culture. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this to all of you: we have left 'an eye for an eye' as coordinate states for millennia. We've been through, supposedly, in the penitentiary. Do any of you know any way to convict a man who's already lost his life? It is obvious that there is no such way. When Koufantinas dies, we will not be able to save him, and then we have to admit that our purpose was to avenge him and not to make him a better man. I would like to close, Mr President, by saying something, so that there are no misunderstandings in here. I would argue exactly the same if Mr. Rupakias, the child, the last Greek hero, the Physsa, were in the position of Koufontina. I would claim the same whoever was in his place, because the question should be whether we have any legal culture, not who it is, but what rights are those which are being violated. It doesn't matter who he is. If it's me, if it's you, Minister, if it's Rupaia, if it's the leader of the Golden Dawn or the leader of 17 November, if we're a legally civilized state, it doesn't matter at all. It is important that the law is respected equally for everyone. And that's not what you're doing. You're working on Kufontina to inspire a national division, and this except for illegally, is extraordinarily dangerous. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u74	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u75	I have listened very carefully to my colleague's call for the 'Me Too' movement, which is a movement that the Greek society has accumulated, but also the government and the Prime Minister and the President of the Hellenic Republic personally have embraced. I believe that the whole political world expresses the call for all victims not to be afraid and to go out to talk. But I cannot ask you anything, Mr Gregoryides, because I confess I was shocked by your statement. You said about Mr Lignade - and, indeed, I did so 'Google', to say exactly - 'The last twenty-five years the place has plunged down as a sick man and has pediatric tendencies'. I would like to ask you this: You, such an honest and decent man, how did you last twenty-five years to know that someone had paedophile tendencies and did not report it to a prosecutor so that you could protect the children who might have fallen victim to them? I believe that, because this statement you are morally exposed to, and since you are a follower of the 'Me Too' movement, I give you the opportunity to do your self-criticism, because you seem to have been personally silent for twenty-five years on something so serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, could I respond, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u78	You have the floor for a minute, Mr Gregoriadis, because we are going to start a draconian ping and Members are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u79	I don't think so, Mr. President. I'm not that kind of person. I would like to give the Minister a very clear answer so that there are no inaccuracies here. Dear Minister, my statement is very clear. I say the place has plunged down that Mr. Lignade had such tendencies. All those who worked with him - last time I worked with him twenty-five years ago at AMORE Theatre in William Shakespeare's "much ado about nothing" - many are surnames and many remain anonymous because they were not as lucky as we could not go to any prosecutor to denounce anyone for his fantasies. You know, Minister, fantasies even with your government remain free in this place. If any of us were to know that Mr Lignade or any of the chosen government's members were to commit illegal acts - and indeed, disgusting acts, acts of the most dangerous and inconveniences - were to be sure that we would have all gone to the prosecutor. There was no such thing and there was no way to go to the prosecutor without being accused of slandering, because someone had shown that he has some tendencies. Besides, we never imagined that his tendencies would reach a criminal level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, I must remind you that your Minister - and I am closing with this, Mr President - Mr Méndonis, while we have been dizzy since Mr Lignade was appointed to meet him three days before he was appointed, he had the courage or courage - what you choose to do - to sit down in the place you are sitting on Friday and to answer the former Minister of SYRIZA that it is her own responsibility, because it is a personal choice. Your Government must choose, or have known Mr Lignade three days before the Minister is or is responsible for it, because - be careful - if he has been designated as such a responsible person, knowing him three days ago, then he is extremely irresponsible Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u80	We continue the list with our fellow Members and call on the New Democracy MP, Mr Maraveya, for seven minutes. I would remind you that it is Mr Manolakos, Mr Dritsas and Mrs Adamopoulou, and I believe that it will then be Mrs Gennimatas and Mr Varoufakis, as I have announced. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to adopt both a necessary and a timely reform of the system of proclamation and implementation of public works and of the purchase of services and supplies by the State, a framework which governs public procurement from the award of contracts until they are carried out. And this bill with the innovative changes that bring to Law 4412/2016 aims to simplify bureaucratic processes and speed up the progress of projects, studies and delivery of equipment or materials purchased by public contracting authorities. The amendments we propose deal with pathogens of years that delayed the implementation of important infrastructures, such as motorways and, in general, land transport, which is a top sector for the development of the country. It is also facilitated to attract private capital for long-term investment, either by concession or by PPP. In this way, the Government is creating a friendly but clear framework for all interested operators, so that the creation of new infrastructures will act as an accelerator of the growth rate of the entire Greek economy. In essence, therefore, we are talking about a wide range of public policies not only of great economic value, but also of key management importance for the proper functioning of the public services themselves. However, there are still two dimensions of this complex legislative initiative that go beyond the state mechanism. The first is the need to ensure the transparency of public procurement, in relation to the market, i.e. to maintain the exterior good witnessing of how the Greek State entrusts works, supplies and studies to private individuals, fair and objectively for all participants, without preferable contractors, that is to say, without infiltrating unscrupulous and dark points that undermine the credibility of any public authority that concludes such contracts. This would normally sound like something self-evident for everyone, but unfortunately it is not the stories from the recent past, such as the attempt to obtain television frequency in exchange for pastures, to remind us that very often the one who moralizes - and in this case SYRIZA - is the first to rush to violate any rule of law and ethics. Unfortunately, this was done on the basis of selfish starting points and in any case irrelevant to the public interest. But there is also a second dimension, the social benefit which in turn has two parameters. For example, a valid and quality construction of a road axis is of great importance to the local communities it serves. It also concerns the general public interest, however, through the minimisation of the financial burden on taxpayers, the simplification of the control procedures for the State for the effective monitoring of the progress of public works. And I would add, here too, the elimination of additional contracts and frequent revisions of construction projects, which would normally have to be carried out according to their initial studies. It is self-evident that these studies should be scientifically sound, fully documented and themselves included in a uniform framework of public procurement, as should the projects concerned. That is why, Minister, I believe that one of the main elements of the bill is the strengthening of the'study-building' system, so that tender can be started more quickly, along with environmental licensing. It is very important that the contractor now assumes part of the responsibility for proper project planning, since the final study will also be signed by him. Thus, the use of the common "study-building" procedure is covered by the gap that is almost always found between the studies carried out and the reality that the contractor is called upon to deal with. The same direction is being taken to address unusually low tenders for public works resulting in late completion. One here, therefore, should be able to justify any offer that differs more than ten percentage points from the average of the discount as a whole. This provision does not aim to reject the genuinely competitive shareholder, but rather to document the discount offered. It will therefore no longer form part of the contract for the award of the project which cannot be changed throughout the entire period of its implementation. For the same reason, the guarantee of the good performance of a public project will be calculated - and rightly so - on the tender budget and not on the contractual value of the project. Of course, some will wonder: But well, when SYRIZA was making L.4412/2016, didn't he think of all this? In any case, did he not see them along the way to correct the problem? Because you certainly had time, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, for this legislation, since you had a chance to make hundreds of changes. Some will say that it was not a problem of lack of time, but of administrative adequacy and knowledge and I will not disagree, as we have seen a number of competitions that have been stuck because of the ignorance shown by the former government's officials on both legal and technical issues. Let me give you a typical example, the Transport Ministry's invitation to tender for the seven hundred new buses launched by the Tsipras government, but it came down to the beginning of the examination of the preliminary actions. The independent authority took the view that the SYRIZA competition directly infringed the provisions of national and European law and the principles of free competition, including problematic technical specifications and raised questions even as to its funding. All of this certainly confirms your huge administrative failure, not only of the political leadership of the then government, but also of the administrations of urban transport in SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] But there is another darker aspect of the past, which the government is now coming to light. And I am not talking about the effort being made with this bill, but rather about the political will of Mr Mitsotakis and all the ministers to conclude with the phenomenon of photographic competitions. Such a case of the recent past, again by the Ministry of Infrastructure on SYRIZA, was the fragmentation of the Patras - Tower motorway, a case that was not accidentally involved again with the canalarch candidate, with the past reference to it. And this case had legal implications and political endings. So, in 2015, it is well known: SYRIZA has come to power to cancel the design of the New Democracy for a single auction of the Patras - Tower motorway, a budget of 443 million euros. So he broke the single play in eight pieces to share the ball where he wanted it. However, this approach was not carried out without any risk to the project itself and the interruption of Community cofinancing was threatened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Madam President. It turned out, therefore, that most of the motorway could not go any further, as the "love" contractor had offered an unreal discount, more than 50%, and could not build anything because of his financial weakness. Sadly, then, this story is highly taught, for it shows that SYRIZA and today’s criticism of the government is extremely hypocritical. However, it also proves that the Civic Opposition has learned nothing from the past's 'bad'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u85	This past, therefore, leaves behind the draft law to be passed, and that is why we in the New Democracy are voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the essence of today's debate, let me express my disappointment, I would say, of the way in which CSR, particularly in recent years, operates both within and outside Parliament in a way that completely deceives the work of the government. It has aggressive and esteeming political speech, particular populism and irresponsibleness, "consciousness" to its extreme components, as well as participation, which is very serious, of SYRIZA youth in slogans, such as what we heard: "When the rebels enter Athens, the Constitution will be called "Kofodina Square". But, well, don't you think of your responsibilities? Don't you realize that it's played 'with no players'? According to our democratic policy, majority rule and minority control, judging and condemning where they see fit, but nothing else. It does not interest anyone what you do and of course not even our homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is a very important bill, since it defines the legal framework for public procurement. The overall effort of the legislator is aimed at simplifying and speeding the procedures, without ignoring the transparency and safeguards of the performance of contracts. From my defence experience, but also due to time, I will refer only to Part II of the bill dealing with the subject of the contracts of the Ministry of National Defence. Amendments to the provisions, as mentioned in the draft law, are moving in a positive direction and I believe that this sensitive area of defence will enter new tracks, more solid and safer. I am accelerating the most crucial points in the view that I have just mentioned. The conditions for participation in the procedures for the supply of defence material are made simpler and more understandable, thus increasing candidacies and the quality of the material and services offered. The value of defence programmes or contracts for which initial approval by the CSCE is required has been reduced from 50 to 30 million as a minimum value, thus increasing transparency and reducing bureaucracy. Contacts between service actors and companies are simplified, without being at the expense of transparency, as each registration and contact is entered on the respective website. At the same time, contacts with intermediaries and intermediaries shall be prohibited. For the first time, the activation provision of programmes with the provisions of Article 346 of the European Union Agreement is introduced in order to protect essential safety interests related to martial material. Also, for the first time, the use of the European Single Procurement Document is introduced, which makes it easier for economic operators to participate in the process, after abolishing a number of documents that should be submitted by operators to have the right to participate. Two articles cease to be in force in 9 and 11 of Law 3978/2011, which made life-threatening applicants involved particularly difficult. A maximum fine shall also be fixed, and in the event of a failure to pay, it shall now give rise to the possibility of total or partial replacement by materials if necessary by the agency. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important differences have been mentioned which make the legal framework as the most user-friendly and functional, a spirit which also has the whole draft law. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very keen on the way you are legislating. I will mainly speak of public works, because in this area of responsibility I served in the governments of Alexis Tsipras, but also because, following the debate, because I was President of the Technical Chamber, I saw the incredible lightness, the incredible old-fashioned logic and ignorance, if you please, in how you accepted Mr Katrin's proposal for EUTEM disciplines. Fortunately, however, you took her back. However, you deleted one word. This word was "for those who practice the technical profession are or are not members of the Technical Chamber". Who's gonna control them? Who will control ethics, whether they can practice engineering properly? Okay, some of the Change Movement are in the old traditional old-fashioned logic, who wanted with a rumphet to do two Technical Chambers in the country, because they had founded seven hundred TEIs. But you too? We are therefore discussing today - and I am thinking above all of public works - a key piece of legislation amending Law 4412, unfortunately in these circumstances. And that is not a good thing, Minister, because public procurement and, in particular, public works in the country, together with concessions, are a key, fundamental lever for growth, contributing crucially to the country's productive reconstruction, to the withdrawal of the recession, to the reduction of unemployment and, in general, to the recovery of the Greek economy and to the productive direction. Four and a half years have passed since the establishment of Law 4412. Voted in August 2016, as you know. It incorporated two European directives, on 24 and 25 on public procurement, Book I and Book II, creating for the first time a single legislative text for all three types of contracts, namely works, supplies and services. Replaced the Hatzidakis Law, n.4281/2014, which was never implemented for two reasons. Firstly, it referred to the extradition of three Presidential Decrees, which were never adopted and which were also anti-Union, because they did not incorporate the directives that they had to incorporate. So Mr. 4412 has come to fill a great institutional gap. George Stathakis was Minister of Development. We had worked very hard with the pressure of the institutions on our heads in order to get this institutional framework out and in this environment, in my opinion, it achieved its purpose, not because it was the excellent piece of legislation, but because the public works part does not allow what New Democracy wanted, what neoliberalism across Europe wanted with previous directives, that is, scientific work, public work to be converted into a product supply and the scientific work of the study to be turned into a service. That was the biggest win. We hear cheap criticism from Mr Karamanlis of the three hundred and eighty-five amendments of the law. This is not the case, at least in the case of public works and many changes were not amendments. They were additions resulting from the negotiation of the institutions. For example, if companies of 5th and 6th grades were not anonymous and were legal in nature, were they public procurement law or changed something in public procurement law? Apparently, no. But what I particularly want to emphasise, because it is a difference in the way we legislated and our understanding of the legislation and the way the government is legislating today, is a piece of legislation with three hundred ninety-nine articles. In the public works part, there was a presidential decree - adopted - and fourteen ministerial decisions, which were adopted in addition to one, the adequacy of which Mr Karamanlis found in his office, while a total of fortnightly ministerial decisions were made. I'd like you to testify to this as well. The reasons why you are legislating are well known and we will develop them further. He confessed to the President of the CEDEFOP why the ministerial decision on technical competence was not signed. We will develop it into the changes you make and you will baptize them as'reformation'. So what are you doing today? You are amending some provisions - one third of the articles of the law - and you are providing for seventy-seven ministerial decisions, that is double those already adopted. Let's see when you publish them. Two years you've worked on this law, which is supposed to be a flagship law to make these changes. Mr Karamanlis - not here, but you will take them to him, I imagine - you are considering a ministerial decision in Article 139(40) on qualifications, for the incompatibilities, for the conflict of interest of the private supervisory body. We ask: Do you think that they are determined by a ministerial decision or by a presidential decree? This is to see how this law will become a rag. There's no way that your partner, who's the legal counsel you mentioned, will see them. No way. There's no way. Mr Georgiadis and you congratulated him. I'll give him, too, but he wouldn't have seen those provisions. I am running, Madam President, a little more quickly because this legislation has scandalous provisions. The first is the increase in direct award limits to 60,000 euros. The answer to this is simple and is derived from the statistics coming from the Central Electronics Register of Public Contracts, the KIMIDIS. I'll give it to you to understand what you're doing. It is EUR 361,471.079 the value of contracts from EUR 20,000 to EUR 60,000 for the year 2019. Where's that supposed to get up already? That is, 0.5 billion will be shared by right-wing mayors with direct assignments. Congratulations! The second, which is a scandalous provision, is the abolition of the electronic system of direct awards. Why? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why, Minister? You, who are a party to the reform and the electronic systems, why do you abolish the electronic system, can the Minister, the mayor, give anyone who wants and do not result from an electronic draw? Why? Who are the agencies? Bring the evidence - we will ask Mr Karamanlis - which bodies have not run this system. First and foremost it was the President of the CEDEFOP who came here and said that he was rightly abolished. But the truth is different. The truth is, because you don't give money to local government, you give the right mayors so they don't whine the "gift" to make direct assignments wherever they want. This does not guarantee the country's political world or the world of local government. We've lived longer than that. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'm saying two more points that I think are in a positive direction. Another scandalous provision: the electronic draws are abolished to highlight the members of the committees. For what? Does the Minister have to determine who will be the officials in the committee? Don't you like a draw? Is the committee or the mayor or the minister or anyone? I ask questions: why? You haven't answered why. Third order. Two months' post: CEDEFOP's request to be ten days. What for? Basic transparency provision. Finally, scandalous provision number 5: Standard project proclamation issues. So, you're saying that we can have standard issues for EASSY to do as well. So who else is going to do? Every municipality mine, every ministry of its own? Is that possible, rather than going to the head of homogenisation? Of course, you say about change - that's terrible and I'm closing down with it - for the private supervision of projects, and that's where I have a lot of questions. It is not enough that you have frozen our presidential decree for two years, which includes the incompatible ones, both the public interest and the engineers and everything, it is not enough that you do not come to adopt what they are doing in Kastelli, i.e. that there should be a separate competition for the independent engineer and the public services to check both the independent engineer and the concessionaire and the contractor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u93	I'm closing, Madam President. You come and you are effectively abolishing public technical services and you are being paid by the contractors themselves. I think that's counter-reform. For the declaratory system, I would like to tell you, Mr Georgiadis, this. You're a market man. We may have chaotic political differences. Your company can't afford to have a thousand books brought you and not one of them received, pay your supplier, because he said he was bringing you a thousand. No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Colleague, you're putting me in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u95	So I close with an address to the technical world of the country, which summoned the current legislation, which is "strengthen and fight to leave the New Democracy and from government and from local government and we will correct it again". I'm filing the evidence. [[At this point the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u97	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u98	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u99	In order not to create impressions for no reason, firstly, I believe that all my colleagues were present at the hearing. Did you find out by hearing bodies any consistent condemnation of the technical world of the country in this bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u101	Just you. No one else. The large majority of the bodies spoke extremely positively of the bill, with the exception of few exceptions, and those who spoke negatively were extremely mild. What kind of a convict you're talking about? Only in your mind. Secondly, you told me that this piece of legislation would become a rag, as you said, because it has many ministerial decisions and everything else. Excuse me, you brought a law in 2016, Law 4412, which until you left power changed him three hundred and eighty-nine times. What law has become a bigger rag in the history of the Greek Parliament than a law that brought him, within three and a half years has changed him eighty-nine times? Have you seen a bigger rag? So have you brought the greatest rag in the history of the Greek Parliament and tell us that it will become our own law rag? We'll see. Although we've changed him three hundred and eighty-nine times, like you, yes! We won't change him three hundred and eighty-nine times, that's the answer. Three hundred and eighty-nine times, counted, three hundred and eighty-nine times you've come to Parliament and changed your law. If this isn't a rag, I don't know what else it is. Now, I'm closing up with this. Your report that the right-wing mayors will share half a billion - that is what you said - I accept it in this sense. In the recent self-government elections, 90% of the mayors were elected by the New Democracy. I understand that this is causing you some kind of grief, because by putting this identity on them, the right-wing mayors will be sharing, obviously you wouldn't mind if the mayors were left, but you mind the mayors are right. What to do now, the Greek people made right-wing mayors in local society. We did not know to go against the will of the Greek people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u103	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u104	I would also like to speak, Madam President, because we have already referred to the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u105	I will give the floor first to Mr. Spirtzi for a minute, then to Mr. Katrin for a minute and then to Mr. Papathanases will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u106	Minister, we have shown that we have nothing with the right-wing mayors and particularly the right-wing mayors, who are self-government and are not party-led.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u107	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u108	You will have a problem with the right-wing mayors, who will have a non-transparent share of half a billion euros, you will be accused of being an abstract, who with opaqueness have abolished the electronic draw system to give the mayors, who have the experience of your resignation, where they want and then run in court and in prisons. I don't want to mention names. Obviously, we do not care, so the Greek people expressed, but the consequences of your policy, the right-wing mayors and the right-wing government and the right-wing district ruler, we experienced them a few days ago in a simple snowfall, how well you stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u110	Because Mr Spirtz referred with a disgraceful style to the PASOK policy, as regards the patenting of professional rights for graduates of TEI, I would like to remind him - because he thinks we were looking, as he forgot - that when that happened, he was also a member of PASOK. Of course, he made sure to self-determination and become Minister of SYRIZA to pay for his work today with Mr. Kalogrisa. Just because we do not want to apply disciplinary measures to non-members anymore, the same right we ask, the same right not to be subjected to disciplinary scrutiny and the members of the STEM from the Technical Chamber. So, here, I remind you of these things, to restore order and know some people, when they talk, not to erase their history where they were in such an easy and impenetrable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now the Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr Papathanases, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u113	I listened carefully to the former Minister, Mr. Spirtz, and I was really surprised, because Mr. Spirtz was President of the Technical Chamber and I think that as President of the Technical Chamber and Vice-President before that, Mr. former Minister, you were one of the people who supported the engineers. You should answer here whether you really believe in engineers or do not want to support engineers in their work, replacing public control over building work for building auditors. Tell us: Do you trust engineers or do you not trust engineers, who have been president and vice president for a number of years? I also want to tell you this. Here we are dealing with private supervision, with mechanical private supervision, without any loss of rights by the contracting authority to control private supervision, the contractor and the manufacturer. So tell us: are you in favour of mechanics - because you have been President of the Technical Chamber - whether these people really do their job properly or do not believe that engineers are right and do not do their job well? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Spirtzi, you have the floor to answer and to proceed with the procedure again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u115	First I'll answer Mr. Papathanassis. Obviously, I trust the diplomat engineers and especially the builders, who were made when I was the president of the TEI - I imagine you know this - as well as a multitude of electronic systems of the Chamber of Commerce, but I, Mr Papathanassis - and I go through Mr Katrin's question - was never, and I was at PASOK, a line of the party I belonged to as Chairman of the Technical Chamber, but I honoured my body, unlike others today. What does that mean? That means you trust diplomat engineers, but you don't devaluate all the procedures you have to have in order to secure the diplomats themselves in relation to the market. You don't know - I guess you'll know - what happened at the town hall before? You know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u116	That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u117	So how did that happen? It was done by electronic system, by electronic draw and by the appropriate engineers. Now you're removing them. Remove also the engineers, who are in the committees by drawing, and remove the draw system directly. As to what Mr Katrinis said, others forget the story, unfortunately. For the mud he keeps throwing, others forget the story, Mr. Catarini. For the rest, others forget the story. But we PASOK loved it. Some of you who stayed at the Change Movement didn't love the PASOK. It's okay, be well. And for tech engineers, inconsistency, Madam President, is unbelievable. In 1926 the law establishing the TEI was enacted, which says the TEI controls the scientific and professional work of engineers or those who exercise part of it. Why does he say that? Because it gives permission to pursue a profession. If the disciplinary committee, which is a union that is not in place anywhere, does not have a licence to conduct a profession, does not give disciplinary control or anything, as will it control them, if they are good children? A graduate engineer does not have to be registered with the STEM in order to pursue the profession. It is, however, obliged to register in the TEI's Special List to pursue the profession. I would therefore ask you not to change it in the 1926 law, which lasted for a century. It's a sanctuary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u119	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a year has passed since our country's first post-war victory over its neighbour Turkey, a victory that has been marked in the memory of the Hebrews, all Greeks and our partners, as their leaders said on the third day, in Kastania New Orestia. This past day, Evros was almost burning, our borders and endurance were tested, and the adventurous Hellenism took part in every way in the national trial. I express from Parliament my gratitude and my unrestricted respect to all who have participated in any way in this large-scale patriotic operation, from Dilofos - the well-known 'ternational' - to Evros river delta, to the executives of the Greek Police, the Greek Army and the Fire Corps, who in critical hours have responded with braveness and self-determination. I do not forget the adolescents, the national guards and all the residents of Evros, who have in their own way kept the borders of Greece and Europe upright. They defended the country, but also the man in need, exploited by the neighbouring country. They wrote new pages of heroism in modern Greek history. On the one-year anniversary, the Government, Minister, confirms once again that the national strategy for Thrace and the austere prefecture does not change. The recent government decision on the Reception and Identification Centre - the well-known CYT - in the New Orestiad penitentiary, satisfys the people's and national feeling of the Evrites, who feel the affection, sensitivity and respect shown by the government and, above all, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Now on the subject. This draft law represents a systematic and essential effort to modernise, reform and simplify the regulatory framework in public procurement, making it the driver of the pandemic in the light of development and progress, through public infrastructure projects that are estimated to be qualitative, complete quickly, in a flexible, transparent and efficient way. It puts an end to the endless bureaucratic procedures that were delaying a large number of public works - we are witnessing this - and hence the development, as long as the implementation of a project is delayed as the consequences on society and the economy grow. The opening of the tender of projects of particular importance to the economy of the country, as well as large projects based on private investment, is ensured. The phenomenon of unusually low tenders in projects is being addressed, which prevented their completion by causing huge delays, but also overruns in the budget. The obligation for contracting authorities and economic operators to use electronic tools in all procedures is extended to all phases of public procurement. It is important to shorten the time horizon for a project to be carried out, as is the provision concerning the issue of environmental licensing. The tender procedure for projects may start before environmental conditions are approved and both procedures proceed at the same time. The innovation of the new law is the exercise of supervision of the project, beyond the competent technical service, and of a certified private supervisory body, if provided for in the declaration. The delays in the delivery of major projects over a million and over by means of incentives are also addressed. Modern security challenges call for an increase in the country's defence and deterrent strength, and this is achieved by this legislative initiative, which is essential and targeted. Public procurement planning, conclusion and implementation are regulated. The process of purchasing and upgrading equipment systems is deviated by malfunctions and delays of the past, thereby ensuring the national interest in terms of transparency and efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, by increasing the effectiveness of the system achieved, it is expected to ensure faster absorption and utilisation of useful financial instruments, such as the Union funds that are the NRV 2021-2027 and the Recovery Fund. Yesterday the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of the Secretary-General, Mr Giannis Bouga, was informed by the curator, Deputy Minister of State, Giannis Tsakiti, Minister, and thank you very much. In Acritical Evros there have been significant infrastructure projects which have been put into bureaucratic procedures for decades. We ask that some of them be included in the financing of the Recovery Fund, such as the construction of the dams in the Great Dereio Soufli area, the Manthia Alexandroupolis and the Aspronei Twin wall and the irrigation project, a system of pioneering, at Petalos, are considered vital, as they are mature projects, which will contribute to the development and flooding of the law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will also be able to control the water volumes of the Evros river by 25%, bearing in mind that the Evros river is purely Greek, compared with the other three of its tributaries, which, unfortunately, is being avenged almost every five years, while at the same time ensuring water, irrigation and energy production and - why not? - even as a tourist destination. I stress as an absolute necessity to make the rail link between one end of the prefecture and the other, that is, from Alexandroupolis to Ormene sustainable and functional. It could, after the 'TRAINOSE', Minister, turn our backs on us, considering the legal framework for setting up an inter-universal company, so that Evros and his residents can secure their sub-urban railway using the national network on an equal footing. At the same time, the upgrading and modernisation of all entry and exit points at the land borders of the prefecture can also become a head of the spear of the Greek state. It is necessary to modernise and upgrade the building infrastructure through PPP or the Recovery Fund, at the same time as their management support. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the country is being tested on health and national fronts, this legislative initiative ensures the acceleration of the necessary infrastructure projects, namely the development and progress of the place, while increasing the deterrent strength of the Armed Forces and for this reason I am voting in favour of this law. Madam President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. The President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fofi Gennimata, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my support to the inhabitants of Ellas, Larissa and the wider region. What can I say? First, the floods, now the powerful earthquake and the disasters it has caused, are also exacerbating the problems of the pandemic crisis. Immediate measures are needed, Minister, firstly for the immediate restoration of disasters and the compensation of the affected, but - as we have said after the floods - the region and an integrated plan to support economic and social life is needed. The problem is extremely big. There is no need for further delays, because there have been delays in recent natural disasters. I want to inform you that the step of the Change Movement is already in the affected areas. We are very close to the affected, and we are committed to bringing all the proposals from the local society and its institutions to Parliament for the necessary measures, which need to be taken as soon as possible. Finally, it is worth congratulating the teachers who helped schoolchildren to leave the building in place safely. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are experiencing another outbreak of the pandemic. The third wave is out of control, despite the fact that we are the largest quarantine country. The results are disastrous for health, the economy and the workers. You have exploited the patience of the citizens and the strength of the economy. Yesterday, Mr. Mitsotakis avoided the usual order. He left the hard stuff to the others. Today in his message he hid behind the vaccinations. 'All good', that's what he told us. It's someone else's fault again. It's because of the mutations and the citizens who didn't comply. Nothing about the government's mistakes and omissions. Nothing about crowds in public transport, schools and workplaces. Nothing about their improvisations, politics - accordions and panic half-measures. Of course, when they are now talking about'smart measures' - which we have not seen, one of the same ones we have seen - they are actually confessing to the failure of what they have done up to now. As far as the announcements of incredible carelessness and lightness about the sms are concerned, what to say. We should send sms with gps and timer. Insecurity is dominating. The government has not taken care to substantially strengthen the national health system and now public hospitals have reached their limits. The Minister himself confessed to being in 'deep red', but who let them get to this point? We have heard a lot of good news all the time about the workers of the National Health System, but neither have the necessary permanent recruitments been made nor have the health workers been involved in heavy and unhealthy. Fortunately some donations were made and some intensive beds were added, but they seem to be exhausted too. The government insists on solutions. He closes existing clinics to treat patients with serious illness to save COVID beds. He ignores that specialists of the ESS do not arrive to cover the conversion of hundreds of beds into pathological breathing at night. There is an urgent need for experts. Once again, the government is also moving in Attica as in Thessaloniki in the previous period. It leaves many civilian ballast on exploitation by the private health sector. He has no plan to mobilise primary health care in the leukopody. What was it supposed to be? To order ITH beds in private clinics, as we have been proposing for so many months and we have asked. What was announced yesterday is so little and so late. And as far as the virus is concerned, we are in red and as far as patients with serious illness are concerned, they have been abandoned in their luck. Surgeries and treatments absolutely necessary for the life of patients are postponed throughout Greece, as well as critical tests. The problem next time will be huge, especially with cancer patients. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough and citizens are not convinced of improvisation and half-measures everywhere. Let's talk open. Nothing's over. The road is still long. We have upright in front of us, especially when we all know that the vaccination process of the population will take months to complete it. Mr Mitsotakis is talking about a million vaccinations, but only 339,000 was the case the other day, which provides the full security, that is, a very small proportion of the population. I'm opening a parentheses here. I do not forget the efforts being made to organise vaccination, but I would like to stress the need for these procedures to proceed fully with transparency and with particular weight for vulnerable groups, cancer patients, kidney patients, and diabetics in particular. And they are detestable and insulting for citizens the off-series vaccinations of 'blue' strains, self-government and not. We saw in Rhodes, Thessaloniki, Kallithea. But this is the result of the central perception, which is being channelled, that the state is a spoil of the New Democracy Party. This is a concept that begins with Maximos himself, who has given the negative examples both with Parnitha and Ikaria, the same Prime Minister. But no one is above the law and justice must intervene directly everywhere rather than selectively. Ladies and gentlemen, for about a month now I have asked for a debate in this House on a national plan to tackle the pandemic. We, for our part, are ready for this debate. But the government is deaf, the cost is paid by the citizens, and we have reached the point where we have arrived. It continues with its logic of'seeing and doing', no matter what the continuing losses are until we reach the long-standing immunity. We will continue to pressure the government to prevent the worst, because I repeat that for us the common enemy is the virus. I now come to the bill under discussion. In view of the use of 72 billion of the Recovery Fund, the new ESDP and the Rural Development Programme, transparency, flexibility and efficiency are of particular importance. The quickest absorption of these resources, the rapid implementation of projects and the increase in the effectiveness of public procurement, but in terms of strengthening domestic production and social returns, is a central objective for us. The government's bill is untarget. It contains a hundred and forty amendments to previous government Law 4412/2016, which has already been amended four hundred times. It provides in total for almost a hundred ministerial decisions and it is doubtful when and how it will be implemented and implemented. While the framework for public procurement is needed, you do not seem to have the political will or the vision that will allow you to achieve a substantial result in the final benefit of the national economy. With the bill you increase the limit of direct awards and authorize the Minister in white to determine the criteria for the digital company rating file. We are not against private sector involvement. But it is another thing to support and assist the public administration, particularly in cases where the public sector has proved to be unresponsive, and other things being substituted with the person controlled to choose his auditor, which will inevitably lead to conflicts of interest. In any case, the choice shall be made by the register of accredited bodies and by the projector, with full independence from the manufacturer. At a time when the funds from the Recovery Fund, through the award criteria, could be an important tool for upgrading businesses and strengthening workers, you prefer awards and dividends, while maintaining customer logic. We are voting against this bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, too. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, a bill is being discussed today, which is the mirror of a more comprehensive government policy, a policy that sacrifices people's needs and, on the other hand, adapts the organisation and functioning of the state in such a way and with the removal of any obstacles that exist to serve even better and more effectively the needs of the major business groups. What, among other things, does the bill developed by the JRC MPs?The extensive electronic procedures and the extension of the project limits which facilitate the action of large enterprises to the detriment of smaller firms, self-employed enterprises. Its implementation will significantly accelerate the process of concentration and concentration of capital. The draft law provides for a wide privatization of the procedures for project supervision. In fact, this is a privatization of the state's functions. It extends the institution of arbitration to large categories of projects and contracts with the State, in essence, even waives the judicial protection it conferred on itself, thereby facilitating large companies. It accelerates the concentration of projects in large enterprises by introducing into small projects the so-called 'non-economic criteria' which are linked, however, to the economic strength of enterprises. The draft law has a set of provisions aimed at facilitating reactionary urban planning for the so-called ‘green digital transition’, common design for both the New Democracy, SYRIZA and, of course, the European Union. For example, forecasts for NATURA and project implementation areas, without the environmental impact studies having been completed, are almost photographic for various infrastructures required by the project, for industrialisation of the whole countryside under the pretext of so-called ‘green development’. This design was also promoted on SYRIZA. It is now upgrading, of course, with the Government of New Democracy. What does all this prove? That today's urban state can only be very effective, flexible, capable of serving the interests of the great capital, since, at the same time, as far as the needs of the people are concerned, it is inadequate and ineffective, not by incapacity or by lack of proper planning, as SYRIZA says, but by consciousness, we believe, class political choice. See, for example, the contradiction: At the same time as fast track procedures, commissions and various investment plans, with individuals having the role of auditor and controlled and severe reductions in issues such as safety and environmental protection, at the same time top issues, such as civil protection, anti-military protection, anti-nuclear protection, anti-nuclear protection, earthquake protection, remain entrenched and degraded, because, quite simply, they are considered unnecessary for your state. Yesterday's strong earthquake in Elassona, Larissa, confirmed the great dangers that exist. Because, how to do it, we live in an earthquake area. Our country is such a thing. In 2021, however, the stagnation of public buildings has not been ensured even in school buildings. Of course, we will not always be saved by the bravery, the real sacrifice of some people, such as the teacher in the village of Damasi. That logic governs everything. This logic also governs the management of the pandemic. Honestly, we are unable to monitor you, not just us, but the Greek people, who are now living in this insecurity a year now. We heard the Prime Minister this morning in one of his many cardboard statements about the pandemic talking about good news. Tell us what's the good news, gentlemen of the government, Prime Minister? That pandemic a year later can't be controlled? That despite restrictive measures and continued lockdown cases are being launched? That public hospitals in Attica are one step ahead of the collapse? That the mass vaccination program is a long way from being really massive? Does all this sound really good news to you? Because to us, but we also believe in the majority of the Greek people, they sound like rather bad news. Unless the Prime Minister, because of the day, threw it in the black humor. The challenge, of course, is even greater because your announcements last night, which, with every formality, you announced the conversion of the ESS into a system of disease, have preceded. That is what the sanitaries have been calling for months now that the ESS has become a health system exclusively for CIVID-19 cases, now has your official stamp. So we didn't get enough of the coronary pandemic. Now we are threatened with a new parallel pandemic, which will involve all those who lack the necessary care and treatment for other diseases from the public health system. You know very well that thousands of patients remain almost excluded from the diagnosiss, from the treatments, since, after all, the clinical, ICU beds, personnel, are taken away for the great needs of patients with coronary. Despite the fact that the situation in public hospitals in Athens and Piraeus has hit red for you and for big businessmen in the health sector "extra rain". In fact, the special aid plan for the ESS, which you announced yesterday, leaves the big businessmen in health, who, as if we do not have exceptional conditions, take advantage of this mess of the public health system, to make additional profits at the expense of the Greek people. The situation is extremely critical and the possibility of it getting worse is already visible. The last obstacle, to reach the thread of hope, Mr Mitsotakis, is far too far away. Do you know why? For you with your policy, instead of putting obstacles, are constantly adding new ones. Is it or is it not an obstacle to lack of protection, on your own responsibility, in the places of work, in the means of transport? We told you and we will say it again: No lockdown on the lockdown will replace the necessary protection measures in the workplaces, in the means of transport, or elsewhere, nor will it give birth to additional hospital beds, IF beds and health workers. You know well how hospital beds, IF beds exist and are in the private health sector. So we are telling you today, right now, now, that you are attacking private hospitals at the stadium. We have proposed them to you yesterday, specifically and by their address, to add simple specific beds and diagnostic laboratories to the needs of patients. Do it from tonight in the patient on-call and care system, COVID -19 and non-COVID -19, in order to make use of all their infrastructure and all their staff, with state payroll cover. Explore special scientists who work with these private therapists and at the same time are members of the Ministry of Health Scientific Committee for their adaptation to the needs of Coronary Patients. Reinforce the health staff now. Appoint by urgent procedures and without any other condition, all doctors who have a degree in medicine and a specialty qualification and who are candidates for the posts that have been declared. Proceed as a matter of urgency with all the doctors on the waiting list, for specialty. Do not waste any more time on vaccination. Proceed with quicker procedures, with access to all available vaccines. What we're proposing can be done right now. It is realistic, because they are responding immediately and in practice to the deadlock that the public health system has already led, especially in Attica, and for which all of you, with no exception, have put your hand in. With the protection and health of our people, no one has the right to play. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Communist Party of Greece calls, in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, for a roll-call vote in principle, on Articles 15 and 219 and on Amendment 776/45 to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Modernisation, simplification and reform of the regulatory framework of public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions on development and infrastructure'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u125	The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, shall we start with a mental experiment? You'll see what his target is. While the Ministry of Education is coming to the Ministry of Education, a student club, student representatives and ask for the rating of children, young people, the evaluation or evaluation of teachers to be done as follows: the assessors to choose the assessors and indeed to have a dependency relationship. In other words, they should pay the salaries of the assessors, which will be evaluated by the assessors. I think even Mrs. Keramea would laugh at that. Now imagine another guild, a guild, which receives fat wages or incomes fatally from the public, is trading with the public, doing things on the part of the public and requires that this guild has full immunity, that it can never be prosecuted for damage caused by this guild to the public through its actions. It also calls for something more, it calls not only for immunity but also for the prosecution not to be allowed to investigate whether there was any act which undermines the public interest. Finally, in order to close this mental experiment, imagine that there are some partners, which demand from the Greek state, from the government, from the state, from the state, that we be required by the state to borrow from the lenders so that these partnerships, private individuals, have guaranteed profits from acts and activities that do not add a single euro value added to the Greek private economy or to the public sector and that these guaranteed profits will be exported by Greece after they have made them. This mental experiment aims to compose, picture what you are doing with these bills, bills like today, which is a mosaic vote, is a mosaic stone, it is a small piece of the puzzle, the big plaque that started in 2010 with the first memorandum, but which today with the Mitsotakis Government breaks all the short. We read in your bill, Article 57, that - says - the possibility of supervising works contracts, studies and technical services to a private supervisory body, paid by the contractor, by the supervisor. It's what I said before. There is no difference in the substance of what is introduced by Article 57 by having parents and students to pay and choose the raters of children. This, of course, is not your patent. I want to remind you in 2008, when Wall Street collapsed, London City, the Franco-German fool banks. You remember then that societies suddenly realized in the midst of that collapse a corresponding evaluation process. Do you remember the 'STANDARD AND POOR'S', 'MODY'S', 'FITCH'? Do you remember that these private evaluators were the ones paid by Lehman, JP MORGAN, the National Bank, Piraeus? To evaluate, the rated evaluators paid to give them five stars, three stars, full score. This enters with your bill today. I wonder: when the time comes to evaluate colleges, the degrees of which Mrs Keramea has balanced in the middle of the night with university, that is what I imagine you will suggest, you will propose to colleges to find a way to pay some evaluators to evaluate them. It's perfectly compatible with what you're doing. The PPPs, so-called public-private partnerships, will somehow be assessed and become gangs in the private sector, PPPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, it reveals every day how you mean the evaluation. Evaluation as a method and as a process you mean it as a smokescreen behind which corruption, authoritarianism and immunity will be hidden. Means such as evaluation, the very concept of value, on which the assessment is based, excellence, are concepts that you invoke, to impart upon them. You are the personalization of the definition of cynics, given by Oscar Wilde. You know everything about prices, without knowing anything about values. Now we go to the asylum, which you so much dislike at the university, unless it is the varnishes, which the Greek State has put, the state in its bosom since 2012. I am referring to the executives of the Financial Instability Fund - a) stability, you say, yes - the CFS, which is coming now. It is another vote of the same mosaic with today's bill, the same mosaic we had with Hercules, with the bankruptcy law. I read what you are thinking - very quickly in here - about the Financial Stability Fund. First of all, for those who hear us out there - as few as they are - to make a brief historical reference to what the so-called CFS was. It was a fund that was set up to bring the money, the loans from the troika to rescue the banks, to go as capital aid borrowed by the Greek taxpayer, the bankrupt Greek taxpayer, the bankrupt Greek State, to give the bankers. The word fund, of course, is misleading. A fund, a fund is aimed at profitability. He's taking risks. He may lose, but his goal is to win. His success is judged by whether at the end of the day, they say, his benefits, his profits are greater than his losses. This particular fund was built to lose. It was built, not to take risks on the part of the government, but was built in such a way that it damages the public and that 41 billion. Mr. Samaras, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Stournaras, borrowed directly to the banks, which, of course, were like a swirl whose holes were the red loans. It was assumed that we would put on top the 41 billion borrowed by the Greek citizen, the Greek citizen and from below, as they left. Therefore, since the objective of the HFSF was to damage the State, the taxpayer in favour of the bankers, then, in the legislation of the second Memorandum in 2012, you introduced the immunity of the officials of the HFSF. Of course, when it comes to harming the public, people must also have immunity. That's all there is. Now you come - as we read - to add to this immunity the impunity for something else. Why? Because recently - you are well aware of this - you re-stated Piraeus, on the basis of the conversion of a debt that it had into the Greek State, in shares, but with a price of ten and fifteen times higher than the stock exchange value. That's a crime. That's why the CFDs had immunity. But now that's not enough for you, because you want to privatise the same bank again, with the loss of the Greek State, taking the participation of the state from 61.3% to under 30% and giving them the impunity, so that there is no possibility of a prosecutor not to persecute them, but not even to investigate this new scandal. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, how much I would like you to be really neoliberal and to make a confrontation like serious people, we who are not neoliberal, you who would be neoliberal. You are as neoliberal as PASOK is socialist or SYRIZA radical left. Not at all, in other words. A neoliberal, Mr Georgiadis, is from his DNA - or DNA - against public lending, the taxpayer's debt being charged, the state in favor of interest, against payroll and in favour of profitability. That's the neoliberal. That's what I learned from Mrs. Thatcher. You guys are the exact opposite. Did you make Hercules, where you're doing? You are charging public debt to taxpayers' shoulders and you are giving state guarantees to predators who carry out non-productive operations, profitable, misappropriate small and medium-sized assets to take them out abroad with the public guarantee that you are getting, by charging debts to the state. You're not neoliberal. SSP, you are representatives of state-owned pluralists. That's what you are. Your only anxiety in here is that what you are doing in here does not sound out there, that the citizens - especially the conservative citizens - do not know about the diversion from the legality you are legislating in here. Your goal is to divert and tool you to achieve it, it's dissatisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people - a moderate Greek people - who, despite the greatest bankruptcy of international capitalism, which we have experienced in the last ten years, has been at the height of the circumstances, has remained peaceful, sober, brave and moderate, to divide him. From the doctrine of "socialism for bankers and austerity for many" - the doctrine that you have applied since 2010 - you went to the "law and order, MATs and chemicals" for youth, doctors, nurses, teachers who dared to ask for self-evident and, at the same time, immunity, impunity and lawlessness for bankers, predators, suppliers, contractors. You divide the people, even working on the convicted prisoner Kufontina. Without a moment you are striving to divide the people - as if this were the case - between the enemies and supporters of Kufontina, attacking the basic principle of liberalism, that the state has no vendettas, does not kill, is not avenged. You want a dead hunger strike because you seek molotovs on the streets. And that's because you're dreaming of a social conflict and, at the same time, unbearable cockfighting on the channels. They ask us: are you against violence wherever it comes from? We are responding, 'Turkey disgusts us'. But we know where it comes from today. It comes from you, it comes from the Mitsotakis government. Why are you doing this? Helium's more obvious. In order not to discuss the legacy you are doing in this House today, every day, so that the world does not talk about the ever deeper bankruptcy of the country, nor, of course, about the lawlessness, asylum, the imprisonment you are giving to your political bosses, the falconers and predators who are in the midst of a pandemic, in the middle of ever deeper bankruptcy, are setting up the great foods like the vultures that are waiting to pinch the pricks of the fallen people. You're rolling on the Greek flag, but you don't have a pin on your country. At a time when harmony and unity are required in an area that is a step forward from warm episodes, with a people that is shaken by a pandemic, which you are facing as a café state, are being beaten up by violence on peaceful citizens, trying to extinguish them to the violence that will make it easier for you to exercise more violence, to create more noise, to overcome the crime you are committing in here, by legalising the iniquity of the oligarchal bank, digital and analogous paratroopers. Ladies and gentlemen, to immunity and to the impunity of the bankers we are confronting social accountability. On the Oligarchal Platiko, under the cover of the troika, we are confronting the recovery of national sovereignty over the tools of the state, which have been attributed to the troika. In splitting, we oppose social and scientific dialogue. In the repression, state violence and police occupation we oppose peacefully responsible disobedience. We're not going to follow you in your mad race to the bottom. You choose the break-up and terrorism of vulnerable people as a diversion to the galvanized property of the public and of small and medium-sized enterprises. Make a comparison not of two cities that Dickens would say, but of a two-serial story. A sirial in Maroussi and a sirial here in Syntagma Square. Sirial in Maroussi, you know what it is. It's about Mall. Sophia Sakorafa explained them to you yesterday very well. I won't insist. It's unbelievable what you're doing, Mr. Georgiadis. Do not pay a single fine, Mr. Latsis. Everything about Mr. Latsi, so he doesn't pay this 1 euro. At the same time, today in the Constitution, outside the Ministry of Finance, they were dozens of cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, which will be released again. Again sixty-year-old women, cleaners, vulnerable will be on the road through a pandemic. That's who you are. In front of this state - terrorist, authoritarian, predator you're building, we at the Mera25 choose the romantic faith that the new authoritarian archeism of your old-fashioned right will not pass. But we are not content with this romantic faith. At the same time, we propose responsible disobedience to your so-called solutions, practices, practicable, real solutions to the burning problems of the place and the calm resistance to your ambitious effort to divide society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just a few words to Mr. Varoufakis. First, you said we weren't neoliberal. Dear Mr Varoufakis, in recent years our language has been hairy to answer the objections of the Opposition that we are supposedly neoliberal, saying that we are not neoliberal. So you have done nothing but confirm what New Democracy says since the first day. Ask Mr. Tsipras how many press releases SYRIZA tells us neoliberals. Mr. Tsipras, your former partner told us that we are not neoliberal. Thank you! Let's go to the second one you said. We may have many differences, political, ideological, cultural, but that you can understand that it is the European framework of universities and colleges. I imagine you understand that. Because you said that Mrs. Kerameou, who has equated universities with colleges, will hire some to control colleges and various others - I will be allowed to say, Mr Varoufakis - skyline nonsense that only Yiannis with a 'n' could say in this Chamber. Because you are well aware that college degrees are not recognised by Mrs Kerameo. They are recognised by the European Union. What Mrs Kerameau did was the country's compliance with a judgment of the European Court of Justice. I am impressed by the fact that Kriton Arsenis, your Member of Parliament, has been constantly telling me all over the past few days about his anguish about Article 219, that we have been condemned by the European Court of Justice, and that this is something that we have to avoid. The European Court of Justice has already condemned the European Court of Justice, such as the recognition of college diplomas - which are the European universities that give them the diplomas, as you are well aware - you do not show any grief. That shows the size of your hypocrisy. I should like to close, Madam President, the last thing I consider to be more serious, with the CFSF, immunity, impunity and what you have said about the banks. Firstly, immunity to the members of the CFSF, the Financial Stability Fund, as you know, has been given by the previous government of SYRIZA and is always one of the main causes of the institutions, and that is what I imagine you know. Why do you know that better than me? But I have to tell you that by coming to this House with a 'n' and accusing the Government of New Democracy of damage to the banking system, you are at risk, Mr Varoufakis, of falling the glasses from above! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You received from the government of Antonis Samaras shares in the Financial Stability Fund of the Greek government worth 35 billion euros. After your famous phrase 'darling, I closed the banks' - my love, I closed the banks - you forced the next government after the next elections by order of Mr Tsipras to sell these shares for 4 billion. You destroyed 30 billion euros of Greek people's assets with one move of your own. And you have the courage to come to the House and do lessons to us? You were Alexis Tsipras' biggest political mistake. If he hadn't put you in the first half of the year, it could have been very different for both SYRIZA and the country. For the course of SYRIZA, I don't care much about the country's course, but I care very much about it. You have personally caused damage that, according to the European Support Mechanism and Mr Regling, exceeds EUR 100 billion. And do you take lessons in New Democracy trying to keep Greece up in these conditions? All have a limit, Mr Yianni, with a 'n'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. You will allow me to make an observation to you as President-in-Office. You should only be confined to political controversy. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u130	Dear Mr Georgiadis, I feel bad because when you answer me about the question of whether the New Democracy is neoliberal, I obviously have to bend my head and say you're right. You personally, I never accused you of neoliberalism. Your shovel keeps the rest of it from somewhere else. The fact that Mr. Mitsotakis has you in his government is a personal tragedy. [[Applause from Mera25]] It is the personal tragedy of a neoliberal Prime Minister who has a man like you in his government. What can we do? It's his tragedy. I'm sorry about that. As far as the universities are concerned, I don't know, you were here in the debate we had with Mrs Keramos, but it would be wise of you not to tend to collide with me on what goes on in the universities in general. You are not interested in this debate. You're not a Minister of Education, I'm not going to deal with this. So I don't waste time, I'm going straight to the third thing. Mr. Adoni Georgiadis, do you want to remember another Adoni Georgiadis - a, it wasn't another, you were - who, in Genaris and February of 2015, were you dating and asking, did you challenge the Greek citizens to make their money from the Greek banks? Do you remember that before that you were part of a government that had given 41 billion to banks and told me that the shares of the CFSF were 35? You already admitted that you were 41 and you were 35. You weren't down at 35, at zero, because those 35 weren't there. The only way to find out what the price of a share is when you have many - on average 60% of the Greek banks - is to go sell. The banks had already been devalued in June 2014, when Mr. Shoeble decided to fire Mr. Samaras and you. In June 2014, the International Monetary Fund had spoken of a complete depreciation of bank shares. It was no different. I don't know, are you interested in understanding this? Can you understand that? You took a drill, you put 41 billion to the Greek people, and these are lost, because you forgot to close the holes underneath, which were the red loans. Then you wanted to throw this into the SYRIZA government, where I was Minister of Finance. This is the tactics of the far right, of the right. I'm sure it's not neoliberal. So you're absolutely right. I'm ignoring the charge on your face that you've ever been neoliberal! I'm closing up with something to be clear. In December of the Step of the House I finally asked for this committee of inquiry to be held, to look at all the memoranda and the first and second and third and in 2015 and 2012 and 2011. Because I said that following the Asia Minor Destruction, the Civil War and the Cyprus issue, bankruptcy over the last ten years is something we must at least agree on numbers, not agree on political assessment, but at least on numbers. We tabled a proposal, as a PART25, to create a sober committee of inquiry. You and your Prime Minister have threatened me since 2015 with a committee of inquiry. I told you you wouldn't dare do it, because you know who the guilty ones are. The guilty are you who sold out the public, private property, banks, Greece to foreign lenders in favour of a local oligarchy that moves your threads.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u133	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u134	Wait a minute, Minister. Would you like to hear Mr. Heta and answer later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u135	It is a good opportunity for the Minister to reply to both of us. Minister, we are watching with great interest with the Greek citizens and us. The difference is that we are involved in the process. We'll have to look into it. Politics, I see we agreed on something. We're listening for billions. The rain of billions and millions, 30 billion, 40 billion, 50 billion, 60 billion, many billion. Millions, billions, it's a mess. We have asked, from the first moment, for an examination for the first half of the year, and we have invited you and asked you to do this examination, to learn from the Greek people who took these billions, but you did nothing, as a government, not you personally. It is not time to see these billions, which go and come in Parliament - is the poor Greek people crazy to hear them - where did they go? Why don't you pick up the glove? We asked for one for the first semester and a second for the press. Both of you have been prosecuted as government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u136	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u137	I just want to tell the President of Mera25 that there is no statement from me in January and September 2015 that I called on people to get the money from the banks. There is one answer to me in September 2014 at the MEGA television station, when my colleague, Mr George Bored, told me that if they win the election, they will not pay the International Monetary Fund. I told him if you say that and you do it, people will take the money from the banks first. Following my statement and the saliva created there was no 'bank run' or 1 euro, because there was still a government that honoured international obligations and did not cause any concern in banking faith. But what happened? He's got something interesting. After a few months and after I went through that statement to me, you actually came to power, and you personally said that you would not pay the International Monetary Fund. And what happened? They left between January and July 47 billion euros from the Greek banks. That is, exactly what I predicted in September 2014. Therefore, my statement was, unfortunately, very precise for the Greek people. Bank runn was not made by my statement, the bank Run was made by your inability to govern, personally, you - Mr Varoufakis and Mr Tsipras - who unfortunately left you uncontrolled, because he himself regretted it bitterly for giving you this position. So still be more careful. All the other things you've said have been answered from history.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u138	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u139	Mr Varoufakis, you have the floor for a minute, because Mr. Tsipras should be here to speak. Here, you have the floor for a minute until the Step is ready. Mr. Tsipras, I'm sorry, one minute, and Mr. Varoufakis is closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u140	I will be very quick, Madam President. By the time the Step is ready, I'll be done. Mr Georgiadis, it is finally true that "the extreme right as well as washing soaps, shampoo". [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Mr. Georgiadis, a simple report. First, on 14 December yours Mr Stournaras is the first central banker in the history of the humanity of capitalism that he declares bank run, predicting a lack of liquidity on the market. It's like the fireman shouting in the world "run, Christians, because we're burning" and then the bank ran. Once we entered the government, we already had 15 billion euros left the banks. The second thing I will tell you: on 1 February I went to London and talked to two hundred and fifty bankers. On 1 February - look into it from the information on Bloomberg - after the debate with the bankers, which I explained exactly what is going to happen with the International Monetary Fund, with the European Central Bank, with the Dept Pops, we had a 13% increase in the stock exchange within one hour and an increase in the bank shares by 22%. Two hours later, your dear Mr Draggi closed the liquidity to the Greek banks to destroy what they won. You as mortars and faithful "yes men" of foreign conquerors will always and systematically take their place along with the local oligarchy. It doesn't impress me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Tsipras, is now speaking. Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, a debate on the past would indeed have been interesting for six years, firstly, if three elections had not been held since then, and if we had not been judged by the people, and secondly, if we are talking here today in Parliament, we were not and were not aware that we have been in an extremely critical and extraordinary situation. Yesterday we had forty dead in our hospitals from the coronary epidemic, more than two thousand seven hundred cases all over the country and at the same time the Attica hospitals are once again in red, literally in red. So I think it would be wise and critical to realize that this is the first thing we should all be talking about today between us, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because something is wrong and I will explain why something is wrong. We are 12 months after the start of the world - not only in Greece and Europe - of this unprecedented pandemic data, but here in Greece we are, we have entered the fifth month lockdown. We are four months in a row and, as far as the measures are concerned, I do not want to go into the question of whether or not they are being implemented - hard Lockdown. Four months of sms on citizens' travel, curfews, closed economy, closed retail trade, closed catering, closed schools and what have we achieved? Our hospitals should be in red for the third time in a row! In any case, you always like to make comparisons. It is good to make comparisons and it would indeed be a political advisability unforgivable if in such a serious crisis we were first in mind, first in order to lay down responsibilities. You like to make comparisons with Europe. You're right. And we like to make comparisons with Europe. But, frankly, Mr Georgiadis, do you know - tell me if you know - of another European country that has a prolonged lockdown like ours and so unsuccessful Lockdown like ours? Nowhere in Europe do they have five months in succession, no European country! Nowhere in Europe has four months continuously closed schools and retailing and six consecutive months closed the focus. In Spain, which was perhaps hit more by Greece than the pandemic, schools remain open with increased tests, but with measures in schools. When they close, they don't go back exactly the way they shut up. In many regions of Spain, the capital of Spain, Madrid, the focus is open with strict measures and protocols. It's open, though. In Belgium, which was most hit by cases than Greece, shops and schools are open with strict tests, with protective measures. In the Netherlands, shops operate, even on an appointment, and schools are open. They don't have cases there? They have cases. But have their hospitals arrived at the spot again and again in red? Oh, no. So something's wrong, something's wrong. You cannot continue to congratulate yourself constantly and to make sure that you have done well, and public health and public safety have been ruined as far as the effectiveness of the public health system is concerned. But the economy has also been destroyed, Mr. Georgiadis. The economy has been ruined and, frankly, I cannot understand how you will respond and how you respond - because I am sure you are from the ministers you are talking to representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises - when the retailers tell you "we cannot have our shops open, which in any case one - one - came in and not many people have entered and are not staying long, while people are conspiring" - customers I mean - "in the public transport every day." So something's wrong. I honestly feel that if you don't ask yourself what was wrong you have done and if we don't try to change the model of dealing with pandemic and you keep insisting on communication policy, things will get worse. The last time we discussed these issues here in Parliament in one of the many debates - the Prime Minister's announcements, if I remember correctly, it was - Mr Mitsotakis came to tell us how successfully you dealt with the second wave. Throughout the period followed, it was not only the measures of the type "normonic" and "adordon", it was also the government's attitude, a cold, a heat, a cold, a heat. Until last week, the Prime Minister himself, who drank from his statements and his speeches, was that we are opening up and we have now reached the hospitals in Attica to be more successful than the hospitals in Thessaloniki at the end of October. Again at point zero. Obviously, there are easy excuses, there are real excuses. I can't judge, I'm not a scientist to judge the rate or degree of virus contagion. But in any case, what I can judge and judge, and the average Greek, is that overall management is a great failure. I do not like to go up to this step and blame only the bad texts, although that is, if you like, the concept of democratic dialogue and when you are in opposition, you must denounce the bad texts of the government, if and when it is corrected. But I want to speak very specifically. So long as we are shouting, our language has been hairy, that the crucial issue is for scientists to have serious epidemiological investigations and studies, so that they can judge at all times and not by horizontal measures how to intervene. What have you done about it? How long have we been shouting that you should prescribe the tests? How much does that cost? How much it costs, so that our fellow citizens will be diagnosed in time and in good time, who are inclined to have access to medical advice and, if necessary, to be hospitalized in time, because if they go to meddling after holiday, things can be much worse? What else has to be done at last to take steps to conspiracy in public transport, where every day people are stacked like sardines? What else must be done to ensure that there are genuine measures for large workplaces, which have been turned into health bombs? In any case, what else should we, to say, propose and what else should be done in the country, to realize how great it is, not only to close and open - this is the easy one - but to strengthen and prepare the National Health System, to strengthen primary care, so that hospitals, which have once again been turned into hospitals of a disease are dismantled? We heard the Minister for Health yesterday at an extraordinary press conference under the title 'Extreme measures to strengthen the ESS'. I do not know whether the title was in response to the needs of the government's communication staff only because last day we presented our positions, our proposals for the new ESS, not tomorrow morning, but within four years. But, in any case, what we have heard from Mr Kikilis is not an emergency measure to strengthen the ERC. He described in black color the reality that hospitals experience today. What did he propose to deal with her, what are the emergency measures? He called them "smart". He reminds me of the proverb that he said: "He was chanting the mountain and giving birth to a mouse." In order to cope with the emergency situation and completeness close to 100% in the intensive care units, you have advertised throughout the previous period that you doubled these beds in intensive care units. And there creative accounting. You've made about two hundred fifty new beds. But, in any case, what were these important measures announced yesterday by Mr Kikilias? We're doing a gift, he says, NIMITS in public. But, if you'll excuse me, the hospital belonging to the Equatorial Equity Fund, i.e. in the wider public sector, is it a gift to the public? So, he's making a public gift? Touch them, even once, children! Private clinics are untouchable. COVID - free. Untouched, don't get caught. At the moment we are talking, we have not yet reached the ultimate limit, what we have seen happen in neighbouring countries in the first wave of choice, that is, patients. I'm afraid we can get there. We have not arrived - I want to be honest - at the ultimate choice of COVID patients, who will enter for intubation and who will not, but we have reached that point, which is equally shocking morally, to choose which surgery - I am not talking about COVID patients - will be given priority and which is not. You know what? When someone's going to do an operation, it's not going to be fun to operate, it's having a serious problem. Currently there are only emergency and cancer surgery surgery and all the rest have been placed on the waiting list and stacked and transported non-COVID patients to other hospitals and regional hospitals and the answer is that we will be rescued by NIMITS. I do not think this is a serious design. In any case, we tell you at least now: Go ahead, there is a very difficult 24-day day in Attica hospitals, very difficult. Go on to the private beds. Go to the call of private doctors - pay, obviously - to deal with cases of non-COVID incidents. Go ahead. That's critical. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we have never been opposed to the value of vaccination, we have just said not to make a commercial product. The sun that will rise. Until the sun rises, we'll have a cold, because right now we're still at 3% -4% of the vaccinated population. Yeah, well, the vaccine, but the vaccine's slowing down. And what's taking her long? Because the European Union has screwed up with the vaccine. What do we do until then? Aren't we going to save the people who get into intensive care units? Why are the experimental medications not widespread in all hospitals right now, saving our fellow humans, monoclonal antibodies, creatures and others? We tell you this with a sincere sense of responsibility, because we believe that this is not your battle or our battle, it is all our battle against human life. So there is no attempt here to communicate with the political objectives, but we tell you that you need to proceed quickly to specific interventions. It is not a question of pandemic being dealt with only with repression. So Mr Kikilias came yesterday and told us'smart measures'. What are the "smart" measures? The "smart" measures by Mr. Kikilias were number 6 on sms, to prohibit, in other words, the movement from a municipality for sport. Do you remember when you allowed this? You allowed it when Mr. Mitsotakis was cyclist in Parnitha and so that you did not agree that the Prime Minister did not comply with the measures, you decided to change the measures. What else is "smart" meter? That you'll have police officers escorting people to help those in need to find out if they're telling the truth. Okay, you do that, in two miles, he says, if you go supermarket at three kilometers, you have a police officer counting with the pole if you've spent two kilometers. But can your government impose this? Are you telling me the truth? You're telling the truth? When Mr. Mitsotakis made this famous party in Ikaria, with the bracelets and the guests, who found a third in a balcony, he rose - obviously not from the parties, but from society - reaction. Mr. Economou, the State Secretary for Civil Protection, replied the other day, saying that he was lying again. And now you're always lying to cover things that aren't covered. After the Prime Minister said 'I'm sorry', what would it matter for you to go out and say 'Yes, it was wrong'? In reply, therefore, the State Secretary for Civil Protection “During the period mentioned above, there was no provision in force that explicitly prohibits or regulates the question of house visits in particular.” But aren't we a little embarrassed? Are you now asking the policeman to go next door to the citizen and ask him if he's telling the truth to go to a supermarket two kilometers away, when the State Secretary is lying like this in lies to the most carabinat violation of measures in a live connection that the Prime Minister himself did? For the truth, I shall submit the extract from the Official Journal of the Government expressly referring to public meetings or social events, regardless of the place of private or public, internal or external, without prejudice to the public outdoor meetings referred to in Article 11. That's forbidden. The State Secretary for Civil Protection answers that there was no law at the time. Now, you're gonna send the cops to escort the civilians to see if the two kilometers have passed. These are the "smart" measures! Everything else before they were stupid, and that's the smart ones! You're not serious, and that's a big problem. When a government in such critical circumstances does not show seriousness and does not tell the truth to the Greek people, then it cannot inspire confidence. The Greek people are tired. We're a year and five consecutive months in lockdown. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for an elementary political agreement on pandemic issues. The last thing you can blame the Antipolistes - the whole opposition, the Civic Anti-Civilisation and the other parties as well - was that on the issue of pandemic they dominated their micro-party interest and destiny. In fact, I have asked for the possibility of a Minister of Health of mutual acceptance, and therefore a coordination of the parties, so that there is no room to question that this battle we must fight together. Mr. Mitsotakis denied it. I asked for it again at the beginning of January, with my visit to the President of the Republic, stressing the need to take an initiative at European level on the issue of vaccine patents, as we are now trapped, all of Europe, on the 'business plan' of two, three industries. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the President of the Radical Left coalition is ringing.]] In fact, I have asked for alternatives, if this is not possible, because this is obviously not in the hands of the Greek Prime Minister, to ensure that Greek citizens can be quickly vaccinated. At the moment other neighbouring countries - some of them in the European Union, some not - have the potential to have much more rate and number of vaccines and vaccines vaccinated than Greece. Why? Because here it has dominated, I mean across Europe and Greece, the idea that geopolitical reasons do not allow us to seek other vaccines. All we care about is where the vaccine comes out. The vaccine is a weapon, a tool, and we don't care where it's produced. We don't care where it's produced. I know that you are deeply in agreement with what I am saying, but of course you will not say so in public. In any case, I asked for a consultation and even a Council of Heads of State to see how we are going, but Mr Mitsotakis has taken responsibility, with the illusion that he is doing extremely well, completely and exclusively. So this responsibility is now to prove that you have it to the Greek people and to provide solutions, but not communications solutions. Every day that passes, they die forty, fifty, sixty people and yesterday we reach six thousand five hundred ninety-seven dead. Every dead man has value for us, every human life that could be saved and not saved is of value. And that responsibility must be taken seriously. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The most outrageous, however, is that instead of taking this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the government - perhaps in the second part of my speech, I am even more angry, though angry, we must be about the loss of human lives - you insist not only on communication management, but on dealing with pandemic and as an opportunity, in order to organise a massage - let me express the expression in public funds and an authoritarian framework and information, but also on the functioning of public administration, by shrinking the basic principles of the democratic process. The bill you bring today actually strengthens a regime, which we have seen in the past pandemic months, in the months of the pandemic, with an incredible contingency fabulous all over the state. In any case, it does not matter here whether you are being blamed for neoliberal or non-neoliberal. A framework is being developed here which, in order to survive, should have friendly relations with the government mechanism. The losers, if you wish, of this case are above all the concept of transparency and dignity. So you are now bringing a bill, where the limits of direct awards are increased to EUR 60,000. Up to the cost limit, which has not been made public, goes from 1,000 to 2,500 euros, while you have set up this whole fabric for over a year. This case is lost is common sense. Your bill brings individuals to project supervision. What you are doing, that is, is undertaking a public project, will hire someone to monitor the performance of the contract. Obviously, the remuneration of the hired person is included in the contract. You realise, in other words, that this does not stand in common sense, because the person who controls will be paid by the person controlled. You bring a bill that's lost in public administration. You give individuals the study and supervision, and you create the conditions for the knowledge of public administration to be lost. We risk in two, three years' time, that there is no possibility for a municipality to draw up study projects and carry out a project based on its services and to be forced to pay constantly privately. Also, bring in a bill that will once again lose the environment. Because at a time when, throughout Europe, governments are trying to find answers to the existential international issue of climate change and environmental protection, you are again acting as a government of habitats. The major ecological reactions for the NATURA regions are known. As if it were not enough, I read today that last night you have also brought in a rather extraordinary amendment to suspend all demolitions of illegal buildings in the sanctuary until the end of October this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if this amendment does not concern your intention to move to elections in the next few years, not wanting to displease some of your 'client', then it is an amendment which highlights how hypocritical you are. Not that it is bad if you did it for election reasons, but if you did not do it for election reasons, it proves how hypocritical you were, when after the catastrophic fire in Matti, where dozens of our fellow citizens were enclaved because of this unregulated construction in the region, you said: "Go ahead and tear down the arbitrary ones." We have also made progress on this. You know that, unfortunately, this is not because of bureaucracy in the country from one day to the next. Well, then, you were hypocrites. Because you are now coming and for what must be demolished and demolished because it is illegal in front of the cavalry, you are suspending their demolition. Why are you doing this? I would like an honest answer. No, I would not like you to answer instead of the Prime Minister whether he intends to go to an escaping election from the tsunami, which he is coming and who he has created, but I want an honest answer to what has to do with the substance of the matter. Tell me, if possible, in a favoured state - and you, in fact, defend the sovereignty and continuity of the state to come in the most vulgar way of making services against the natural environment and common sense. But that's not all. I would like you to give me five minutes to substantiate what I say many times, by addressing the Step here - and not just - that the New Democracy Government has taken advantage of this pandemic crisis as an opportunity to create a prey to public money and to create a regime of absolute media sovereignty. By means of legislative acts, you have given the opportunity to conclude public contracts of all kinds, in derogating from fixed provisions. Without exaggeration, a tsunami of direct awards or pretext procedures exists across the whole of the public administration without compliance with minimum rules of transparency and objectivity. It's not just the big fish you had to catch, since we caught them in time, get them back. I am referring to the case of Mr Brutsi, who may have therefore categorised from the top benches, the case of the great scandal of the "vouchers" who were also laughing at the Internet, because they entered Google Translate's translation with the "Greek Symbols". That was 80 million euros. However, I am not even referring to the most famous case of the 6th Health Protocol, which you have taken back. I refer to scandals that exist, which you did not get back. I would like you to give me the opportunity to refer to them as well. For example, these scandals will be the case, and I have no doubt that too many government-sponsored executives are doing this work. I would, however, like to refer to some who do so in a provocative way. One of them is Mrs Nicholas, the Secretary-General for Crime Policy, the face of news in these days. So Mrs Nikolau has caused the public a sense of law with a body of direct awards to companies which were either suddenly founded at the last minute or had nothing to do with this subject. He gave 500,000 euros for cleaning services with a company, which has been involved in organising conferences over time, but "absolutely random", one day just before the assignment, her involvement in GEMI was registered. It was registered only one day before its involvement with the disinfection sector. I'll testify for the Minutes. Mrs Nicholas gave a delegation of EUR 232,000 for the purchase of personal protective equipment to a company set up on 29 March 2020, offers a bid on 30 March 2020 and undertakes immediately the following day to provide Greek State for 232,000 euros. Mrs Nikolaos gave 300,000 euros for the same reason and to meet the needs of the country's detention stores to a company that trades food and drink. Of course, alcohol may also have something to do with antiseptics. Mrs Nikolaos provided 47,000 euros directly for the supply of sanitary equipment to meet needs of all booking stores in a company that manufactures automotive ammotizers. I shall also present it for the Minutes. Mrs Nicholas gave 229,000 euros to a business that trades seasonal household decorations, carnival uniforms. All right, they were making carnival masks. They'll make the next day and the bug-protection masks! Mrs Nicholas also gave EUR 147,000 for the supply of nitrile gloves for the needs of detention stores, at a unit price of EUR 17,5, at the same time as other Services of the Ministry of Civil Protection were supplied with the same product as EUR 8,85. With EUR 8,85 other Services, the direct assignment of Mrs Nikolaos EUR 17,50. To the suckers! You're going to put a brake on this lady? You've eaten the knobs now! That's not a situation! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Don't take "have" personally! I make specific complaints. It was a rhetorical report. After this oracle of provocative assignments, you bring a bill that raises the limit. So, what's going to happen? Let's go down. Indicatively, ELTA is entrusted by direct delegation to a company set up last day with a total amount of EUR 250,000 for e-market construction. In the middle of a quarantine, Mr. Metarakis and even before he comes out of his appointment, he appoints as the postmaster of the Technical Service at the Ministry of Migration Policy. That was a creation of the state of staff. We never had a postmortem director. He, a party official of the New Democracy, Mr Matiatos - if I am not mistaken, a secretary of the ACP-EEC Committee of Engineering earlier - begins the work on the construction of refugees in Malakasa, of EUR 4.5 million without a notice and with the negotiating method. We're talking about 4.5 million euros. With express procedures, the Ministry of Immigration again awarded a total of EUR 6.2 million to provide advisory services for structures construction contracts. In other words, a private company will advise the private poster you've put to the Ministry instead of permanent civil servants and take EUR 6.2 million for advice. This has never been done in the state before! Now let's go to Mr. Patoulis, who, if one tenth of them had made another district manager, would have been hanged in the gypsies. Because I want, Minister, to be all right with you, SCAI reveals these things, not "SYNEI". I don't think you can blame SCAI for having an anti-government policy. Therefore, SKAY reveals that the Attica Region is provided with a rapid test, a total budget of EUR 1 million at four times the market price. For the truth, I am presenting the documents here - the contracts - which prove that while Mr Patulis buys the rapid test at EUR 9,26 at the same time as another of your regional directors, Mr Djitzkosta, the same rapid test buys them at EUR 3,85. It's exactly the same. So, what's going on? In northern Greece are rapid test cheaper than in Attica? Is there a ‘stop’, ‘attachable’, and the value rises? The same entrepreneur is involved in all of this. He's the known businessman, Mr. Karapidis. I could mention many more examples. I would like to mention these, for example. But I would like to say that, in addition to all this, the most immoral, if you like, is what has been done with vaccinations. And you're responsible for not stopping it. I am not talking about the fact that you were vaccinated, it was not your responsibility, it was the government's fault. However, what continues to happen now is not the government's mistake, it is the choice of people underneath, in misery, I would say, because at the moment there are vulnerable groups, our fellow citizens, who need the vaccine. It doesn't matter how old she is. It was an excellent initiative taken by the Change Movement to prioritise vulnerable groups. They're going to the zuca-blank, it doesn't matter - the New Democracy and they're being vaccinated. Analogous incidents have been reported to the CSD, Attican Hospital, in the hospitals of Crete, at the University Hospital of Ioannina. At the beginning of January, the workers at the “Salvation” reported that friends and well-known entrepreneurs and families of the state of New Democracy preceded the hospital staff. Also, this is the case at Corfu Health Center. Look here, well-known on the island, journalist and publisher, friend, as he says, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Mamalos, is being vaccinated off-line. I'll testify to the Minutes. The South Aegean Region commander, Mr. Hatzimarkos, is on his way to Halki, because he learned that there were dose evacuations and hastens to be vaccinated. For this man, there's no announcement from your party. He's a district officer. Excuse me, if the district manager does this, then what will the others do? Why shouldn't they continue to do that little thing? In Kallithea, three vice mayors of the New Democracy were vaccinated out of priority on the day of the snow. He admits out of order vaccination the "Blue" mayor of the Old Faliro. I'll testify to that, too. Top of course, it was a scandal of all the scandals that took place at the Welfare Centre in Thessaloniki, where party officials of the New Democracy took the place of children with disabilities. And that's a disgrace! Of course, that's where the mayor rushed them off. But that shows a culture. When this nomenclara of your party officers goes and they take the order of vaccination by children with disabilities, it reveals a culture. This reveals a culture of poetry, a culture of arrogance, a culture of cynicism, a culture of immorality. I would therefore like to say this, ladies and gentlemen, by closing down. Don't have the impression that the Greek people don't see them. You have obviously made a mess of funding, with EUR 20 million in the first phase, another EUR 18.5 million now for the provision of advertising expenditure, for advertising that the media are obliged to promote, on the basis of the law, free of charge. If you'd like to strengthen the media, we'd like to join you. Not in this way, however, not by relying on and censoring their attitude by opaque procedures. Another EUR 18.5 million is now available for vaccination, which does not go any further. What do you mean, advertise? But don't think that the Greek people don't get that shit. But don't think that the Greek people aren't watching you. He's watching you. You know what? It is one thing to fail because it is another to make mistakes in the effort, but it is another to demonstrate this kind of immorality. And that is why you will be judged very soon. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u144	Mr President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, you started your speech and spent about twenty-five minutes - rightly - on the issues of how Greece is going to pandemic, and you said that we have messed up. You had the courage to compare us with other European countries - namely Spain and Belgium - in terms of the quarantine period and how these countries have managed to go into the pandemic. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Because politics, ladies and gentlemen, is applied art and we are all judged by the result, I am reading what is happening today as long as Mr Tsipras spoke - in relation to each European country and the pandemic. Greece, six hundred thirty-five deaths per million. Inoculations per 100 thousand inhabitants: 9.18 and not 4 as said by Mr. Tsipras. All this in restrictive measures since November 2020, with local lockdown and not general measures throughout the territory, that is to say, we are opening up elsewhere, we are closing down. Germany, eight hundred and fifty-four deaths per million, i.e. two hundred over Greece per million. Inoculations per 100 000 inhabitants: 7.88, that is, under Greece, Germany. Restrictive measures from the beginning of November, Lockdown from the beginning of December and an extension of Lockdown until 28 March. Austria, nine hundred and fifty-four deaths per million. Vaccinations: seven hundred forty-four. Slovakia, a thousand three hundred seventy one deaths per million. Vaccination: 8,39. I am going to Spain, for example by Mr Tsipras: a thousand five hundred deaths per million. In Greece six hundred thirty-five. We are under half the deaths per million from Spain, which Mr Tsipras has brought as a good example. Vaccines in Spain: 8.36 per 100 thousand people. In Greece, I repeat, 9.18. We're over Spain in vaccinations. Belgium, the other country read by Mr Tsipras: a thousand nine hundred five deaths per million. I repeat, in Greece six hundred thirty-five. And so on, not to read all the countries, because it's gonna be tiring. The Greek people should know that while respecting their labors, sacrifices, tiredness, anger, anger and money, in this global pandemic that has affected all mankind, our country has been held up and, in the World Health Organization, is one of the countries' standards for the effective management of the pandemic. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a success for Mr Mitsotakis or the Government. This is a collective national success which Mr Tsipras wants for reasons of micro-partial feasibility to cancel, he will not be able to cancel the success of the Greek people. Yes, Greece stands up and stands much better than countries extremely much more organized than us. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I was particularly surprised that Mr Tsipras completely ignores the measures for the pandemic. He said why we don't prescribe the tests. Do you not know that the electronic platform has been operating for weeks, where any citizen can give his name and take the test free of charge from the Greek state? He did not know and exposed him, the one who wrote his word. So it is impressive that he came and did not have a word to say to the Chief of Response, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps his biggest mistake in all criticism of Mr Mitsotakis. When, for the first time in Europe, the Prime Minister of Greece, first and foremost, asked for the certificate of vaccination, for travels to be easy, Mr. Tsipras, instead of saying: I will also put my backs on it and I will take as many foreigners as I can in Europe to support this proposal - a proposal that aims to save the Greek tourist season for this year - has come out and ironed out to the Prime Minister that this is a ridiculous proposal. Now that Mr Mitsotakis' proposal, after a lot of trouble by Greece and the Government, became the official position of the European Union, he did not have a word to say, because what he described as a ridiculous proposal a month ago, Mitsotakis managed to do so by the European Commission. That's what the Greek people see and they leave from SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras. I must, however, address two or three other issues which he has raised and I will leave the crucial political issue, Mr Dritsa, for the end. First of all, demolition. Ladies and gentlemen, great tears have been shed by Mr. Tsipras to lie to us because we do not go any further, he says, in demolition and destroy the environment. Excuse me, he was five years Prime Minister. The demolition protocols were issued. Why didn't you destroy them, gentlemen of SYRIZA, five years in power? As you know, all that we are discussing has been built twenty-five years ago and thirty years ago. Why, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, after you have been so hard on the environment and so sad about one year of extension, you 'good left', the 'friends of the environment', five years that you have ruled did not break down one? Because you're hypocrites and liars. That's the answer. I challenge your parliamentary representative, until the end of the sitting, to state whether the official position of the SYRIZA is to proceed with demolition tomorrow. If SYRIZA's position is to proceed with demolition tomorrow, we will re-examine our position on the matter. But know those who will be demolished by the bulldozers tomorrow, that Tsipras and the mayor are tearing them down. Well, I challenge you, until the end of the meeting, to state whether SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras want this amendment not to pass through and to go bulldozers and tear down tomorrow morning. We will see if you do not say so, whether or not I withdraw the order. So the world knows tomorrow that will tear him down, that Tsipras, who came here to sell love for the environment, fake. Why are we going to postpone one year? We have said, Mr President, that pandemic is going some things back. It is clear that the reasons for the pandemic do not allow too many people to make it this year under these conditions to legalise or regulate the various loose ends they have. So by putting it into our calculation that we are living in an extraordinary treaty, that is why we give them a few months' extension, so that they can regulate. But, I repeat, until the end of the sitting if the parliamentary representative rises and says 'We want the bulldozers to go down', I will see if I can rethink my position. But I want to hear SYRIZA say it to the House that 'we want them to be demolished' tomorrow, to see why you did not do it five years. You came here to shed with Mr. Tsipras fake crocodile tears. I am now going to the whole scandal, which Mr Tsipras was given, although I remember, Mr President, and on personal grounds, that Mr Tsipras was careful with me, if you notice, perhaps from remorse of conscience as much suffering he put on me and my family with the "NOVARTIS". Scandalism didn't go very well last time. He spent fifteen minutes in such a serious bill, but it is the reform of public procurement, fifteen minutes to talk to us about Mrs Nicholas's alleged scandal. But I am sure that you have all noticed - there is no need for anyone to be very observant of this - that while 15 minutes spoke of Mrs Nicholas and described her as a person of the days, the words 'Kofontina' and 'hunger' did not come out of her other lips. Why? He obviously saw Mr. Dritsa back there and thought that it was not a good time for him to report to the Chamber the issue of Kufontina. Because he couldn't talk about Kufondina, he started hitting Nicholas. That's what this is about. Because even Tsipras has understood how much political damage SYRIZA suffers from the sudden support of an unjust request, a convicted terrorist. However, the bitter glass of Mr. Tsipras will drink it to the end, because the Greek society has now understood, especially in the last few days, what role do those who download the world on the streets holding banners "I was born November 17th" or who call slogans "When the rebels enter Athens, the Syntagma Square will be called Koufantina Square". That's why Tsipras didn't even say the word "Koufontina" here today and hit Nicholas. I am not hiding you, Mr President, on personal grounds because I have also seen the former Deputy Minister, Mr Sfakia. Mr. Tsipras looked all over the state to find direct assignments and to blame the various ministers and secretary-general for cultivating a climate of Scandalology. If there was anything ruthless, he would go to the National Transparency Authority, to the prosecutor, he would have had his MPs ask questions to the House. That's all about the impressions. But for us in the Ministry of Development, he didn't find a word, either about our bill in fact or about any of it. Why? Because Mr. Tsipras knows who to fuck with. To close this whole debate, therefore, I am pleased that the important bill we are debating today has not been dealt with until only minimally, as a syllable leaf, has been criticised by Mr Tsipras. I'm glad Mr. Tsipras didn't say a word about Koufantina, the hunger strike. I consider it a significant change of attitude of SYRIZA on this subject and, if you like, a progress for the Greek society that this party has been left by the terrorist-friendly positions that have been expressed in recent times. Of course, I am pleased that Mr Tsipras seems to understand, despite what he said, that the exit from the pandemic is close, the vaccinations are on the move. In addressing the Greek people, I would just like to say one thing: we are all tired. You're all tired, but we're one step before the end of this nightmare. Just a few weeks of patience, and it'll all go a lot better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u145	Good evening to you and me. Happy birthday to our Prime Minister, many years to Mr Kouvella, who have had their birthday today. First Mr. Voutsis will take the floor and then Mr. Hetas will speak for a minute. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u146	Have you said many years? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u147	Yes, and our Prime Minister and Mr. Kouvella.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u148	I'm celebrating today, that's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u149	Whatever you wish, through my heart!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u150	Seventeen after Mr. Mitsotakis! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a quarter, Mr Georgiadis has been given the floor to regain what he thought, on the basis of which he would create a fog to cover all the essentials that the Chief of Staff has referred to. I am extremely surprised that he did not feel the need himself, perhaps protecting himself, because he is now an experienced politician, to refer to three categories of very important issues which have been raised in Parliament on several occasions with parliamentary scrutiny, which have come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which the parties in this House have already dealt with and, of course, have dealt with public dialogue. Mr Georgiadis said nothing about the vaccination issues of New Democracy officials throughout the territory, outside any protocol and outside any moral protocol, rather than waiting for their order. No, I mentioned it. They have been tabled in the Minutes, Mr President. It is unacceptable what is happening. It seems that it is about dozens of executives, who, of course, not on a central line of the New Democracy, did not imply that, and Mr Tsipras did not say so, but betray a culture of arrogance, a culture of deception to the Greek people at the most critical moment that we really need to be like ourselves. I, too, will expect, as will all of us, Mr. Georgiades, our series, regardless of age, of subjective illnesses, when the Greek state calls us. You know that and that is why you have not mentioned it. Secondly, you know very well that for Mrs Nicholas all the things that have been mentioned have remained unanswered. One does not feel the need for journalists, either from the part of what Mr Tsipras said, namely the poorly manipulated by the present government, to ask her in her successive presentations on television. Nor, of course, do you realise that, because it is a person who has been in the first row - and not because of Kufontina - for months now, since the bill had come, since you set up a special ministry with a hundred and fifty people, rather than the Ministry of Civil Protection, to exercise anti-criminist politics, by taking the penitentiary from the Ministry of Justice. That is why Mr Chiaras has been silent about everything that has been happening in justice over the past few months. So, in such privileged treatment, a top executive, as it turns out, of the government responsible for dealing with various cases, amounts, companies, objects for which are open to explain and there is no reason - I repeat, self-protected - to say something about these issues. Of course, the Chief of Officer's Vice-President has submitted a third category of documents which proves that in time a pandemic of regional directors and officials of the Ministry and elsewhere, on 'holy' objects relating to the pandemic - the masks - on other issues relating to the treatment of pandemic, are directly commissioned. He directly connected it to the fact that you are making sixty - five - and twenty - five - and the sarah. So while you know that, Mr Georgiadis, it has come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, it has come to plenary, it has been discussed, you are not answering. It's an incredible arrogance you're displaying. It is, let me say, an incredible confession of guilt that those and others that we do not know are obviously happening in these very difficult times. It is indeed a moral political signal for this government, which proves the need for the political system, as you have stressed at the outset, to appear and be clear in all areas. It is clear, then, that the diversion you have attempted at the end of your speech to do, in the hearing and in the world that he hears us, namely that the Chief of Officerial Opposition should not refer to them, but has referred to them, so as not to mention - to what? - what you mentioned in relation to the hunger strikeer, it is completely meteorious and does not betray an equal treatment of a major issue of equivalency, to which many people are calling you, and your party and your broader understanding. Because Mr. Tsipras - you know very well - the Chief of Staff of the Hellenic Society, from the Step of the House, like other Heads of State, spoke about it, they also raised top issues about the bill - you know very well - and that is why this issue concerns the entire Greek society, in all his statements within the House, outside the House, in the public space, in all ways. Voicing SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and I also believe on the Left, has left neither a granule nor a mark to mean what you as a government, as a party, targeting the Left, bring and bring back, to create the clumsy, under which you want to hide all the above things, and you also want to divide Greek society. It won't pass. It is not in this trap that a democratic citizen, left-wing Member of Parliament, should fall out of Parliament. You're gonna take the snake out of the hole. To you, it's the hot potato. You will make your decisions before the law, but also before history. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u153	Minister, please, can you keep notes on what Mr Hetas will say and on what Mr Scandalidis will say and answer later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u154	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Heta, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, thank you very much. Obviously, the political system, the New Democracy and SYRIZA, is of interest to them, it suits them, it serves them to discuss a topic, such as the Koufantina case. Because we have said that these topics have chosen them to assemble their party audience. However, as a political party you will allow us to deal with the great and important issues. Because, Mr Georgiadis, the time goes by and we are still waiting for an answer. We therefore have to come back to a specific subject. You are a Minister of Development and you are a Vice-President of the New Democracy. What do we have here as a given, Mr. Georgiadis? And from the outset, and now as a government, the New Democracy - you were blaming SYRIZA - what you have done here today - Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis - who were both here today on these benches, because then they were ruling this country, that a lot of billions of euros were lost, money from the Greek people. Eighty, sixty, ninety? A hundred million yelling for election. That's all you said they were lost. You were saying a hundred million. And? When one accuses someone else of disposing of public money, or of losing this money or stealing that money, or that somehow this money has disappeared, the Greek people's money, but does not go on finding the guilty, what is the only word that comes to your mind, gentlemen of the government and Mr. Georgiadis? It's one word for us: cover-up. Does the New Democracy cover SYRIZA? So why not set up a committee of inquiry? Why, while blaming them - it is oxymomile - that in the first half of the year our country, the Greek people, their pensions, eighty, 100 billion euros and we say that - where the money went - you are not going to show the guilty? You're covering them. Question: Does the New Democracy cover SYRIZA on this matter? There's a cover-up. That's the only truth. Unless you cover them, why are you preparing too beautiful and sweet the ground for coexistence. If you don't do that, you can answer that you don't do it for that, nor that the goal is coexistence. We will believe you, but answer. Mr President, because I told you that the New Democracy and SYRIZA are very small in the big issues that concern society, but large in the small ones, we will not follow their game in the case of Koufontina. We'll go back to the importants. What's the big deal? We are truly happy that every day in here, a stone - a stone, we build a dignity unbelievable, with honesty to the Greek people. I shall refer to another Greek case-law. Who's that? I read the communication from the Commission, Mr President-in-Office. The Communion, not the Greek Solution. What does the Commission say a while ago? That the governments of the Member States, and hence the Greek Government, can negotiate autonomously for the vaccines of their countries, without intervention from Europe, and, of course, also for the Russian and Chinese vaccines. The Commission's announcement a little while ago. So at the same time that the Prime Minister of our country - and we regret that - characterises Greece as a small country, which cannot negotiate vaccines on its own, comes the Community and says that the Member States can do so. So the obsession of the New Democracy really - and I am closing with it - with its PFIZER vaccine is now creating suspicions of dependence, not to say anything else. We call for answers to both these issues and, above all, for the question of the committee of inquiry of 80, 100 billion lost in the first half of the year. If you don't, you cover them politically. That's what it's called a cover-up. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I still - I have become one in this Chamber - not to understand these days the political climate of acidification, which is fuelled on the one hand and on the other hand, that is to say, by the Government and by the Civic Opposition. It is fed with such intensity and with such polarization that it really causes, not only embarrassment, but grief and grief to the Greek people for the moments that it passes. The Minister spoke of a model of pandemic management. Each party, Minister, has its own assessment of how standard the management of the pandemic you are doing. Mrs Gennimata has chosen a ton of ton on the substance of this, in our view, last failed effort in both the second and third waves of pandemic. She had it, too, through the questions of the Members of the Change Movement, to say about various issues that have the smell of scandal. He had to talk about a lot of mismanagement issues. He didn't choose to do it right now. She criticised, said her proposals, because what is important is a positive response to the current problem of Greek society. Mr. Chief of Officer Response, who made his choice to raise issues. You are either obliged to respond to these questions or to initiate procedures for the settlement of these issues. He chose Mr. Tsipras to make the specific complaints of the name that there is a question of mismanagement or odor, I would say, of mismanagement, not to go to a final decision. But you should also have an answer beyond Koufontina on these matters, in my view. It is clear that it is no coincidence that you both throw oil on the fire. So far, I've seen you use the topics and events for micropolitical and electoral exploitation. This, to a certain extent, is acceptable. But, unfortunately, the game is being upgraded and upgraded dangerously because you create divisive events unexplained for the intelligence of the vast majority of the Greek people. It is unthinkable today that, for any statement such as this statement made by Mr Dritsa - which I disagree vertically and obviously still try to understand what he wanted to say, because I never imagined that such an old-fashioned strain in the political life of the place to mean this ideological identity - is being debated again two days ago with this tension, by entering into settling out, by entering into a process, into a controversy that has no meaning whatsoever. This has no value and simply poisons the political life of the place, public life and society itself and society. I invite you to wake up from this process and from this dream that we are currently living in the Greek Parliament, where we are living for the fights of Prime Minister and Chief of Officerial Response with riots personal for the journey of everyone, who are living rivalry and pilgrimages, who have nothing to do with the problems the country faces. I am making a last call to change this climate. Find the way to give solutions to the problems. It's your government, your case to solve them. We too need to restrain ourselves a little and, if possible, help to address and solve the major problems that we are facing at the moment. It is dramatic and one regrets to feel, as a responsible member of the National Representation, that at the moment Parliament is not standing up to the circumstances of democracy and the country's progress. It's dramatic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Minister, we hear you, me and the whole world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u160	Mr Voutsi, first of all, thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer something I forgot to say before. The Government unequivocally condemns any behaviour of any of its members, whether or not, trying to overcome the vaccination order and to be vaccinated as a priority in the order of someone else. It's over and out. Where this was known, there have also been party disciplinary sanctions and public convictions. So what Mr Tsipras said and you said too, they do not express us. It's over. Everyone's gonna wait for their turn. Vaccination is going very well. We've been in at a very high speed now. Today we have over one million vaccinations. As I said, on the basis of the data I mentioned earlier, Greece is far above the European average. If I remember correctly, today we are the fourth country at the speed of vaccination in the European Union, much more than many other important and more capable countries than us. We don't have to meditate about it, either. Secondly, you did not understand the substance of my argument before, or rather you do not want to understand it. Isn't it stiff and contradictory as far as a political issue, for which your youth is protesting every day, Members talk to you on all channels every day, announcements take your party out every day, became the story with Mr. Dritsa - will I refer to - with such intensity and with Mr. Tsipras, speaking forty-six minutes, did he not find the opportunity to say a word? Obviously, that's not something that happens randomly. It's done on purpose. He didn't want to report. Why didn't he want to report? Because he also realised, as I have said, that there is now a great deal of political damage to SYRIZA from all of this, which has been going on in recent days. As to the Government's position on the issue of his strike, I say this again very calmly to make it clear to you and the Greek people. We do not distinguish Greek citizens from people who have a divine right to take the lead of others. As I unequivocally condemned anyone who goes beyond the order of vaccination, because all Greeks are equal to the law, in the same way we say that Koufantinas, if he considers that he has been wronged by an act of administration, can appeal to Greek justice and ask for its opinion and decision, as can any Greek citizen, who considers that it is wrong. The idea that Koufantinas, who reiterated that in 2015 he had a hunger strike over your days, so that he would not go to Korydalos and in 2021 he would have a hunger strike on our own days to go to Korydalos, that for some particular reason the Greek state would have to deal with him as an exceptional case, is wrong. I say it calmly, understandable. I believe that today, Mr Tsipras, with his attitude, took away his youth and took a great step in the right direction, because he did not refer to Koufantina. We all understand that only on purpose can it make this important political move. I'm going to Mr. Dragon. I have mentioned his name many times, mainly to give him the opportunity to ask for the floor on staff. I knew he'd take the floor and talk. But he didn't talk in the end. Apparently, you withdrew him so he wouldn't talk. But here's the National Representation, and here's what Mr. Dritsa has to explain about all the terrible things he's said. I say his name to ask for the floor on staff and finally speak here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u162	It's about acidic, all the political forces convict Dritsa and Dricas to watch so long a mute. So, to collect it, SYRIZA has caused damage in the country in recent years with the issue of Koufontina big. The loss of politics itself is secondary and indifferent to me. But the fact that every night thousands of people are protesting with the shameful slogans I have previously put forward - I imagine you are also condemning - endangering people's health - because, of course, when they demonstrate so many times on each other, they are speeding up the spread of pandemic - to discriminate against a murderer is going too much! Mr Heta, the issue of the committee of inquiry on what happened in the first half of 2015 is always open. Creon at the closure of the tragedy of Sophocleus "The Oedipus Tyrannos" - I will say a little bit about the ancient Greeks, who like Mr. Scandalides, we share this love - he says: "What is nice that is when it is done on time." This is what the Greek word 'good' comes from. The nice guy is the mature, that is to say, the right time. Neo-Greeks today we call this "timing"! In the right time, it's going to happen. New Democracy never said it wouldn't happen. Amid pandemic, quarantine and lockdown is not the time. In any case, these criminal cases have long been filed. So we're not bound by time. Mr Scandalidis, I very much respect your intervention for mild political reasons and, in general, so far, a mild political reason that we have here. We didn't have any terrible conflicts to be fair. All right, Mr. Tsipras was petty, all right, Mr. Voutsis didn't mention the subject of demolition. Maybe it's not his business. I expect the parliamentary representative to state, by the end of the sitting, whether the SYRIZA proposal is to be broken down tomorrow. They have sent me and I see in my mobile amendment to SYRIZA, in 2018, the Ministry of the Environment, which extended the demolitions in Microlimano. But it's okay. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u163	They've been executed! Sunio, Marathon, rope!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u164	Calm down! Don't interrupt. We've been so nice so far. Don't interrupt. I wait until the end of the meeting or now, when I'm done, say, 'yes, we want the bulldozers to go down' - I want you to hear that this is your position - and we will see what we are going to do. I, you know, I'm a little curious. I withdraw it and let the bulldozers go and write "Chipras" on the claws tomorrow. Then go with them when you tear them down at the time of the pandemic. But if you dare, do it. Here we are counting, because I'm too much, too much I don't get up! So calm down. We're in a pandemic. The postponement has taken place for the reasons of the pandemic alone. You all realize it's reasonable in the middle of a pandemic to give people some time to adjust. It won't ruin the environment if something that exists thirty-five years, remains thirty-five years and eight months. But because I don't like hypocrisy much, this is where we're counting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u166	Mr Tsakalotos, I will give the floor first to Mr Dritsa, who has asked for the floor on staff, and then I will give the floor to you. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm just gonna need a second. Mr Georgiadis, I have been here since the morning, as most of the time I am in Parliament. My turn will come and I'll take the floor, as I'm on the list. I'm not asking for special treatment. My turn changed, for reasons that had to do with colleagues' needs. I shall take the floor from the Step of Parliament to address Parliament and the Greek people, not to respond to your challenges, which are of arson, provocative, puppet, puppet, unacceptable and insulting to both Parliament and everyone. Everything will come in turn, precisely in the time that all the serious issues require. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, Mr. Georgiadis has again been wronged by Mr. Dritsa. Explain he's on the list. We all know. All Members are suffering, waiting for him to be the next speaker and then two - three ministers and Parliamentary representatives are coming. So, it wasn't right what he said. Mr. Georgiadis knows about SYRIZA's youth and how close it is to rights and how these slogans and banners had nothing to do with youth. But we repeat it, because something remains. It is not a way to continue this debate. I hear what Mr Scandalidis says, but Mr. Georgiadis decided to put the matter on the table. Mr. Georgiadis has another strategy, which is stuck with his Chief, Mr. Mitsotakis, to keep saying that Mr. Tsipras does not know about the regime. The last example was that for some time now, we have had a free prescription test. It's not like that. Look at the shape. You fill out the form and then, with a random variable, you might have a test. Uh, I think that's far from prescribing a free test, whoever wants it. I think you understand that. It's another thing that anyone who comes in may have a chance of taking tests if the algorithm takes them off and another that they have a free test. So don't accuse the Chief of Officer Response when you don't know your own context. Alexis Tsipras knows it better than you do. As far as demolition is concerned, it is not, first of all, true what he said. There were demolitions both in Sounio and the rope and in many other places. What did Mr. Georgiadis reply to Mr. Tsipras' note? He said Alexis Tsipras "I hope you do it for electoral reasons, because it is more serious if you do not do it for electoral reasons". Mr Georgiadis replied that, because of the political cost of this thing, you would like to sign up so as not to delay it. Isn't that what he told us? I don't think I'm wrong. Isn't that what you told us? Come on, you too, so I can tell my mayors that I don't want it, SYRIZA wants it. Is this really the policy of the New Democracy, of democracy, of transparency, of ecology, of tackling climate change, of demolition? Do you really support this? Mr Tsipras also spoke, the former President of Parliament spoke about scandals and you said nothing. You told us to go to the Transparency Authority, to which your friend responsible there is, but you did not vote together to go to the Court of Auditors. You didn't say anything to Mr. Voutsi. As if the former President of Parliament hadn't spoken. It doesn't sound good. I don't think that sounded good to the Greek people. To conclude, Mr President, with regard to the pandemic and all Mr Tsipras said, we can all play with the figures, who is worse, when it was the first phase, the second phase, the third phase. But I got one. There is nothing New Democracy has done wrong with pandemic, and there is nothing the world should worry about! While we have been told for two weeks Lockdown, we have continued and listened, 'family for another two weeks'. It is not that government's fault, and they should not have answered whether our hospitals should be better prepared, if anything could be done about education, to open schools on other terms, with preparation, with other rooms! It is not the government's fault for transport! Everything went well! As Breech said about the elites of that time: "Their peace looks like their war like the wind with the storm" and to you success looks like failure, like the wind with the storm. I actually expected yesterday and today - my last proposal - a talk of self-criticism on any matter, either about ecology and what you are doing, about the bill, or about pandemic, but about scandals. I was expecting a word of self-criticism. It seems that this does not exist in either the state or the rule of sovereignty and the excellence. In fact, I regret this exchange of views, where you continue not to answer key issues and throw the ball on the platform. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Brutsi, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, following this House, its lively dialogue, the discussions between Members of Parliament and Ministers is really very interesting, because it has surprises. A moment ago, the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, replied to the Chief of Officerial Opposition on the major issue he raised, which he considered to be a major scandal, the issue of demolitions. It is an issue to which the Government has placed itself, that this is not a final decision, but a withdrawal of the measure for only eight months, for reasons described by Mr Georgiadis and the Government. What did Mr. Georgiadis say? He said to you, Mr Tsakalotos, if and if you are placed and say 'take back this provision', he will agree with you. Mr Tsakalotos takes the floor, and to everyone's surprise - where I was expecting SYRIZA's environmentalists in the direction and line of Mr Tsipras, who raised the issue of demolition - instead of being placed and saying 'take back the arrangement' - he did what they say, Mr Tsakalotos,'strong through the engagement'! You have answered other than others, in fact you have agreed with the government's order. That's what you did. You avoided the challenge...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u172	I realized you're going for elections. That's what I get. It was clear!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u173	I understand and the Greek people realised that what Mr Tsipras said here was air cut. Impressions and communication, that is what I understood, Mr Chakaloto. Now let's go to the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras went through the Step of the House a moment ago. I tried to collect his position and his speech and organize it in my mind, as to what he tried to say. Two words are the ones that characterise Mr. Tsipras' speech. Show a double face. Half the speech was Mr. Tsipras and the other anger Mr. Tsipras. That's kind of what he said. Behind these two words, there were two other words. To Mr Tsipras, in his description of the government during our pandemic period and our function, the word failure and behind the face of Mr. Tsipras corresponds to the word of Scandalology and scandals everywhere. This is the image and let's see them one by one. Ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive analysis has been carried out at all levels, from timely questions to the debate of the government's crisis management bills during the pandemic period, this unprecedented situation. No one ever said we were doing great. And I as Minister for eighteen months, having the Ministry of Labour's portfolio, doing things, which were unprecedented and unprecedented for the Ministry of Labour and legislating things that were not in the past, I always said "the enemy of good is the best," but we do what is possible and always in the context of the country's budgetary capacity. Today, on the first issue raised by Mr Tsipras, the issue of universal failure at all levels, the government is not talking, Mr Tsakalotos. I'm sorry to talk to you, it's rhetorical, because I see you on the side of SYRIZA. That is why the European Commission itself is talking about. Firstly, today together with the record of a million vaccines, the World Health Organisation congratulates Greece on managing the health crisis and on ranking third in Europe on the speed of vaccination. Is anyone ignoring that? What's that? Failure or success? Probably a success. Secondly, I shall refer to an issue, which is unfortunately bad, but it is macabre, and it is the reality, because these are the measurements made. We unfortunately or happily have the best performances, from softer performances across Europe. Is that a success or a failure? Thirdly, I will say this in my speech below on the issue of the bill - it is the question of the Recovery Fund. Yesterday, the European Commission congratulated the Greek Government, because what the Recovery Fund has included on a crucial issue, with 32 billion in the Recovery Fund basket, Greece takes its first place in all European countries for the proposals it has made. Is that a success or a failure? Success. Fourth issue is the credit we have received in managing the crisis in dealing with business, but, above all, maintaining jobs, from all the global organisations, from the European Commission to the World Bank and very large global economists. Is that a success or a failure? So I repeat, no one speaks of perfection. He's talking about managing an unprecedented crisis. In this crisis, however, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, Ministers, MPs, all of us together, and the Greek people, have fought a battle and we have a positive balance. ‘ Mr. Tsipras has come here to tarnish and level everything, invokeing the matter, which is the last time, which is a real event, that of increasing cases. So when Mr. Tsipras mentioned the increase in cases, I expected him to do the elementary thing, to do what they say and apologise a little, because 15 days ago the Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras, was in an interview at the ALPHA TV station, said the famous "I take the risk" of the gatherings and the education and all the gatherings that took place later. Did he take the risk? So he's not guilty of increasing cases lately? Is that what Mr. Tsipras took over? This took place because it stimulated youth, the world, the world of SYRIZA, the people it controls and can direct to gatherings and raise cases. Isn't that the risk Mr. Tsipras took? That's what he said on TV. In any case, that is the reality, undeniable, recorded. One cannot question that the government in the pandemic period, at all levels, had a positive mark with its weaknesses. I will repeat what Mr Georgiadis said, which I too consider to be very important, that the Government of New Democracy from Maximos to any of our classified officials has condemned and denounced any unacceptable behaviour of anyone - who says that it is also a New Democracy - who is vaccinated out of order. But we cannot control this, Mr Chakaloto. We control it, condemn it and take measures. What else can anyone say? Evidently we've taken action in cases where we've spotted a party property. We removed them from her next moment. That's the reality! Is Mr Tsipras coming here as number one and generalising the cases, mitigating in the palms of the two hands and making it a major issue, which we as a New Democracy have condemned and denounced in practice, if and if it is detected? Let's go to the second issue, to the angry Mr. Tsipras. So Mr. Tsipras began to describe a series of scandals that go through the government. I should like to refer to my own, because I think it is very important that it should be repeated many times and that I do not have the opportunity to make a stand with him. He's talking about the possibility of something going on. I had come here to the House and said that in politics it is called political bravery if, when you find something, the next moment you find it, you withdraw it. This was then done at the Ministry of Labour. Nothing ever happened. Incorrect computer procedures were carried out in some programs. This was spotted and pulled back. It keeps saying that it will be 'be done'. This is a petty and political manhood of Mr. Tsipras. A political manhood for something that has not been done, to invoke it as something that has been done. Secondly, she has now raised the issue of Mrs Nicholas with dozens of topics, for Mrs Nicholas one, for Mrs Nicholas two, for Mrs Nicholas three. I say the following simple: I know that one and one are two. After presenting all these big facts about Mrs Nikolau - the arbitrary, illegal, irregular - why doesn't any of your people go to the prosecutors to testify to them? That's the simple explanation in politics. We do not come from a step of the House to denounce scandals and simply to be written in the texts of Mr Tsipras, who came to read them in the House. Let her take it to the prosecutor, and if it's illegal, the responsibilities will be attributed to Mrs. Nicholas. Be careful, however, not with the hooded process, such as 'NOVARTIS', which had to say to Mr Georgiadis and he did not ask for an apology. Not with the hoodmen, Mr. Chakaloto! With honest conduct, with open papers, with pure faces, "This is scandal, I take it to the prosecutor." Why doesn't he? He comes here and shines a number of issues, which he calls them scandal and is scandalous and hides behind the possibility that the Stepma will not have an equivalent? Take it to the D.A. So we'll wait. If you do not, then another issue, like the first one for demolitions for Mr. Tsipras. He's already going to the D.A. today. We're waiting! I have to make a little reference to Mr Spirtzi's question and his position. In this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, there are some principles which are inviolable. The principles are that we must respect institutions. The institutions cannot be just a cartoon for Parliament. This bill for me is intersection and a great reform, because I come from one region and attract my origins from two islands, Naxos and Amorgos, and I am a member of the Cyclades, a very difficult county, to the development of projects. But also throughout the island of Greece with the peculiarities of this bill will be a great help to the development process, as will the area of Mr. Boukoros, Magnesia. Because where there are technical weaknesses this bill comes to answer and give solutions to the self-government that needs it. But we cannot have the institutions, like the mayors, have them a card. When all the mayors, their representatives - who were present in the committee - came and placed all the institutions and Mr Michalos from the Chamber of Industry and all the institutions of the social partners - came and were placed positively, you cannot distort reality. So we have an image that the institutional social partners have come and said 'bravo' about the bill and we have Mr. Tsipras and the SYRIZA side to make a card to place the institutional partners and deny it and even to denounce it in an unacceptable manner and to make a sign to the mayors and to speak about right-wing mayors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is disgraceful because the self-government authorities, those elected, are not elected by flag. New Democracy has given Greece nowhere. Everyone may have his political identity, but in the self-government elections the New Democracy has not given a nost, they have been forbidden for years for the New Democracy. We respect the independence, autonomy of local government. Of course, people who have a great deal of scope in local communities are being elected and today Mr. Spirtzis has come to put the sign on their right and has prejudged that they will also make scandals with the 60,000 euros that enable them to make locations, choices in projects. These are unacceptable and I think the people who listen to us will agree with us. Ladies and gentlemen, within this time, which I have for my position on the bill, I, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, will tell you that opportunities are being given to policy on convergence. The New Democracy has demonstrated over time that it respects and moves in this direction. It has also proved this through this bill, not what it brings today as a government, as an opposition. SYRIZA brought Law 4412 in 2016, the law we are discussing today. What did New Democracy do? If you take the Practicals of that period, we together, those responsible for managing the law brought by SYRIZA, had a lot of remarks. But we weighed them as a New Democracy and said that in the scale we say that Law 4412/2016 has a positive mark for that period. And we voted, Mr. Chakaloto. This means political responsibility and not party feasibility, as you are doing today, not you, your party that refuses to vote on the bill. What happened between then and today? Since then, Mr Tsakaloto - it has been five years since - has proved to be unsuccessful, in the sense that it has not worked effectively on the needs of self-just development in society, there have been three hundred five changes in these five years since your own government, and today our government, respecting what it has received, has been able to maintain several provisions of the Treaty. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work and the proposal for a Council Directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work (COM(86) 412 final) and where it found that there is a problem of intervention. Indeed, we have today a law that will be passed in the evening, which comes to respond to the challenges, to the issues, to bureaucracy, to the erroneous development of all the things that have prevented us from doing so - including Law 4412/2016 - the prospect of our country's development. It comes with clarity, with efficiency, with honesty, because in fact the issues you have raised, and you said that at the moment they are coming and you called them and scandals, that private engineers, for example, are entering in to control, were a problem. I'll take you to the area of mine. How is an island such as Anafis, such as Therasia, such as Sikinos, which do not have technical services and all the many islands of the country, which are weak municipalities, which do not have technical services, that cannot absorb the money of the NSRF, because of this weakness, will they? So today they will! From everywhere I get credit for the government, for the three ministers who made this position specifically with this bill. It was a weakness of your law, and today it is resolved. So here's a matter. Or the second, which is an extension of your own law concerning discounts. In the discounts, don't we all know for years that a game has been playing, that one was in consultation with the other contractors and gave a 50%, 60% discount? Did everyone take the project and then raise the budget to the same level? This game wasn't playing? It became a badge, and we had a public money leak. That was the reality. Here, engineers, people, MPs who know it were placed in it. Well, that's in the positive direction, Mr. Chakaloto! The concrete measure taken by the New Democracy is right. We are talking about a bill that has been passed through the suffering of the whole dialogue, the one called 'parliamentary procedure' and the committees and in dialogue - this planned - have dealt with it and the mechanical and legal world. Five hundred pages have been recorded as observations, and a large part of them have been incorporated into the bill by the government, the three ministers bringing this bill. I think that the vote on this bill is really a big step, which will help the development of our country tomorrow, which will reduce bureaucracy, which will keep transparency, will increase it - I would say - in many things and solve many bureaucratic issues, which have prevented the speed and development of the public works that we need so much. We all know what happened in the country. I believe that this is also the quintourism of the issue that we are discussing today. So political bravery, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is to say 'yes, there is a law that we are debating in the House right now. It brings him another government, it's not us government. However, we recognise that it is in the positive direction and we vote for it." What you're doing, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is called micropsy, micro-party perception of things and irresponsibility. What he did from here, from this Step today, your Chief Tsipras, is that he came to describe everything black, to speak of government failure and to put issues of scandalology that are not there. They are condemned there in Anti-Population, and the Greek people see you and evaluate you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u176	Here, Mr Chakaloto, you have the floor for a minute. Although the Minister will want after the speech, I know what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u177	Well, Mr. Brutsi, if we're petty, we're not alone. All opposition parties are voting against, so it must be micropsy in general disease. This isn't about it, you know. We have specific policies, we have made specific criticisms, you have heard them, you do not agree, that is another. I didn't take the floor for that, because I promised to speak for just a minute, but for the scandals you told us to go to the prosecutor. Did you hear what I said to Mr. Georgiadis? That this is a matter of the Court of Auditors and you're blocking it. From this, it looks like who's dirty in the nest and who doesn't have it. There is one procedure, which I have answered to Mr Georgiadis, but Mr Georgiadis has not spoken, and you are blocking these matters to the Court of Auditors, which is the authority responsible for contracts, on such matters. Now I will not talk about the Transparency Authority and how it has become your'magaz', which gives advisors 200,000 euros a year to say that we are doing the 'final' state. I'm talking about the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u179	Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please be as brief as you can, and I know that you have this capacity to proceed with the procedure, because we have left behind and have voted today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u180	I shall try, Mr President, to be very brief, but some things must not be suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u181	I understood it, and I said it ahead of you, Mr. Georgiadis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u182	First of all, Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, the Court of Auditors does not control emergency expenditure, because if they go through the Court of Auditors' procedure they lose their urgency. Until the check is done, the need has passed. So when you deal with urgent situations, there is necessarily no control of the Court of Auditors. The fact that there is no control of the Court of Auditors does not deny the power of Greek justice to control expenditure. But I am sure you understand that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So what you have done for the second time - I said the first time not to answer, so that we do not lose time - is a distortion of reality on purpose, and indeed, after noon. The dome is to hover a veil of Scandalology again. So Greek justice obviously has the power to control. You filed the complaints. So any prosecutor who wants to check can do it. Secondly, the Transparency Authority checks. Now, as far as you are concerned, that it is our'magazine', the Transparency Authority, I would like you to hear the following: You had created a General Public Administration Inspector, the predecessor of the Transparency Authority, who was Mrs Papaspyrou, the second "mother" of Mr Janakopoulos. You remember very well that Mrs Papaspyrou on purpose, by system and constantly she was only concerned with complaints concerning New Democracy and never with complaints against anyone from SYRIZA. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The honourable Member has left the House, because I had said again not to reply, but since you are causing me, I cannot do so. He accused us of being arrogant, telling us a complaint and we do not respond, which shows how arrogant we are. Yes, sir. You were just talking to Mr. Polakis. When I submitted to the Committee of Inquiry into Health that Mr. Paulakis unlawfully assigned 8 million directly to a security company in CEDEFOP - and this is written in our statement as my own statement and in the service paper that the money was provided illegally - and Mr. Voutsis received my conclusion, you never initiated any procedure and never did Mrs. Papaspyrous did any control. As you know now and we read in the press, the Greek justice has come and obviously the file will be here shortly, because it is extremely convicted and says that the 8 million were unlawfully given. So, I was right when I was shouting that the 8 million were unlawfully given. So when you had the authority and learned about the 8 million - which is a member of the committee - you did not say that your own man, Mrs Papaspyrous, buried it under the drawer at all times and controlled by the SYRIZA and Paulakis government. To come and tell us how arrogant we are, because we don't answer Mrs. Nicholas, you understand it's "top rivers"! What Mrs Nicholas has done or anyone who is now ruling out a hundred thousand times! That's the answer! We have nothing to hide at all! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the complaints of the Chief of Representation just before the House are enough for any prosecutor to ask for his own file. So justice has not been deprived of any authority to control it. So don't say it for the fourth time, 'cause you're just lying. In order to avoid forgetting it - and with this I am closing, Mr President - I have caused you to say, 'I want the bulldozers to go down tomorrow'. I have told you that if I hear you say so, I will think about withdrawing the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u183	I think I've answered that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u184	You said a lot of nice, you said, "Shush-mesh-" but you didn't say to go down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u185	You announced elections and you don't want to miss votes! Everything else...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u186	All right, we're in touch!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Chakaloto, you weren't interrupted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u188	Elections will take place in July 2023! So don't worry. Elections in 2020 do not exist! Therefore, the commitment is not of an electoral nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u189	We're in 2021!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u190	Yeah, 2021. There are no elections either in 2021 or in 2022. The elections will take place in July 2023. So, to end this debate, I am confusing it for environmental organisations and for the articles that are being written. I said that if SYRIZA says "I want the bulldozers to go down" tomorrow, I'll think of withdrawing it. There was no such statement, so the rest of it is 'to have to say'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to read you a'seal'. 'Mr President, On the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members who sign this request shall request a roll-call vote on Article 219 of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: “In order to modernise, simplify and reform the regulatory framework of public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions on development and infrastructure”. I don't have to read the names of the signatories.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u192	Now I will give the floor to Mr Constantinidis from New Democracy, then to Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25, and then the Minister of National Defence Mr Panayotopoulos will speak. Here, Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has dealt with public procurement has probably understood the bureaucratic obstacles that the private contestant has to overcome, the procedural difficulties that the civil servant, the complex national and Union legislative framework that the judge has to implement, and finally, the often conflicting objectives of speed, quality and efficiency that the administration must combine, in order to produce a job that will serve the needs of society. Finally, all this has an impact on the citizen, since he is the payer and as a rule the user of public procurement, services and works. In public contracts, the award criterion is the most advantageous tender, based on the best price and quality ratio. Accordingly, best legislation is the introduction of a qualitative and transparent process, which will be implemented as quickly as possible. This objective is intended to satisfy this draft law, and it is trying to reform the various stages of public procurement, providing for rapid and flexible procedures and ensuring the necessary institutional guarantees. Speed as a target we meet it in many bills. In particular, however, it is inherent in the public interest. In practice, we see too many competitions being delayed so that once they are completed, they are finally obsolete, studies of inappropriate and outdated technology. As it turns out, Revision N.4412 established time-consuming and rigid procedures. However, this legislative initiative seeks to reform the existing framework by adopting modern methods and electronic means. With regard to the specific matters, it is indeed a matter of the first time for the application of a single legal aid for an application for suspension of enforcement and the application for annulment against the decisions of the Proceedings Review Authority, which, along with the shortening of the time limits in the procedural acts and the adoption of the decision, aims to drastically reduce the time required for the adoption of a final judgment. We all know how important this is in procedures and investments. In addition, it is foreseen to issue a provisional order on a summary basis and to regulate the refund of the paradigm to the applicant who succeeds in the annulment of a decision of the GDP. There, of course, the paradox can reach EUR 15 000, but there can also be a proliferation of costs in clearly unacceptable and unfounded applications. However, the draft law does not sacrifice guarantees and rights to the altar of acceleration. Thus, on the other hand, it extends the responsibility of the GSP to tender for supplies and services of more than EUR 30 000, compared with the EUR 60,000, which has been the case so far. It also introduces the possibility of hearing before the authority, and provides for the obligation to post the construction study for projects of more than EUR 1 million for a sufficient period prior to the tender. Furthermore, it enhances publicity, stimulates competition and encourages the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises by introducing the concept of public contracts of de minimis value, i.e. up to EUR 2,500, for which it provides for accelerated award procedures, by extending the mandatory use of electronic tools to contracts of more than EUR 30 000, with the possibility of allowing small contracting authorities to judge whether they have technical competence, together with the possibility of supervision by certified bodies, allowing them to publish and carry out works without problems, while allowing them to conclude programme contracts and be supported by the National Central Market Authority. In relation to public works, there are many innovative interventions being undertaken. For example, the quickest start of the tender of works with a lower degree of maturity and of the responsibility of the contractor, as well as of the projects of particular importance for the economy of the country, such as motorways, the possibility of private works and studies, the submission of the measurements, by the contractor, with its consequent responsibility, the possibility of arbitrary resolution of any difference from the performance of the contract, the additional remuneration for the timely execution of the project, the provision that tenders with more than 10 percentage points apart from the acceptable discounts are substantiated as low and must therefore be justified, in order to avoid excessive discounts, which normally lead to the inability to carry out the works, but also to low, as a procedural one, the abolition of the drawbacks for the award of tenders from various services, as it has so far been, which has caused many people to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the administration ever needs flexibility so that the country can quickly and correctly absorb the funds of the new programming period 2021-2027 and the recovery and resilience mechanism, so that our economy can find the necessary impetus. In this respect, the provisions of the draft law, which seek to remove distortions and simplify procedures, will significantly facilitate the implementation of small and large projects in the country. But particularly in my place, in western Macedonia, which has to carry out a multitude of development work and has to absorb additional funds from the Fair Transit Fund, the flexibility given to development agencies and local authorities is overvaluable. Pending, Mr Minister, the special support for operations in western Macedonia, which have been closed for a long time, because of the pandemic, I would like to congratulate you and all the co-rapporteurs on this very important project, for this very important legislative work, which will really give the impetus required for the implementation of important projects in our country, in the context of the next post-COVID era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u194	We are also grateful, Mr Constantinidis, for the time being. I would ask the speakers very much, because we are already too late for the time being. Of course, the cause is not speakers. It's another one, but what do we do? Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou is called in Step 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today, which actually brings about fifty points of amendment to the Public Procurement Act, by Law 4412/2016. Along with the three hundred and ninety-nine changes you mentioned, Minister, that they have taken place in the five years, a total of five hundred and fifty changes, that is, four hundred plus fifty. A hundred changes per year exist this law. This is a glimpse of legislation, a glimpse of legal certainty and, of course, a responsibility also lies with the SYRIZA government, because you are taking this law, you are working on it just to increase your cohorts. So we are asking you to put an end to this bar of constant amendments, to put an end to this legislative model of roller, which you have been applying since you were elected, as well as to put an end to your toxic policies, to this regular mistributory that you are implementing. What do I mean? That you are constantly implementing, concurrently toxic policies and expecting that the Greek people, despair or indifference, will at some point become accustomed to this poison, acquire immunity, acquire what we call the immunity of the herd and consider all this anomaly that you have imposed as normality. Of course, the term ‘immunity of the herd’, applied by the New Democracy, is normally incorrect. He is borrowed from English, so to be more precise, to talk about "immunion of the herd", just like English, because unscrupulous wolves are organized in herds. In other words, your government is the ruthless wolves and what you expect is herds of obedient lambs! So you have closed these lambs, which are your voters, from the first wave of pandemic, together with the rest of the Greek people, who have not voted for you and blamed you for nothing, within their homes, such as sheep in the mantle and you have unleashed around - around various guinea pigs of repression and misinformation, just to be ravaged with your "love" friends, night literally, the warm money of the Greek taxpayer. We know very well what has happened with the acts of the legal content of the pandemic. You have worked on the pandemic, to make an exception, to freeze the Public Contracts Act and to impose direct awards at all times, by way of derogation from the Public Contracts Act and thus to share the public money to your chosen ones. Suffice a walk to "DIAGY" so the Greek people can understand what we're talking about. With regard to the bill, you have increased the limits of supplies and projects, in order to make direct awards and to limit public tenders. What else have you done? You've reduced the threshold for contracts. In fact, you have set the limit of EUR 2,500 and below that limit, so that there is no publicity of these contracts, that there is no publicity in the "GENERAL". You violate every sense of transparency, every concept of good administration, and you do what we say a share. It literally becomes the railing and the feast, not only to prevent any of your people from complaining and to share the pie in more and more pieces, but also not to publish your sub-projects. We come to the most scandalous arrangement. It is the provision that the supervision and control of the project will not be undertaken by the contracting authority and the contracting authority, but essentially the control will be carried out by several private contractors who are supposed to have specialised knowledge. You have also enabled contractors to make a subsidiary of a relevant object and they will choose the company that oversees the project, which will make a project measurement, and even they will direct the way in which the project will be implemented. In short, a contractor buys, a contractor drinks! In addition, with regard to the conditions of environmental licensing, they do not substantially alter the object of the project, while as far as the so-called mild utilization of the NATURA 2000 areas is concerned, in fact, this means welded cement, which will limit natural lungs. And that's because you're a cementing government, you're a contractor's government, following exactly the legacy that your founder inherited you. What else are you doing? With a single-twin provision you legalize the enormous arbitraryness of the commercial center “The Mall”, with the extradition of a urban license, which will also have a retroactive effect of twenty years. With regard to the suspension and revocation of demolition protocols, Minister, you have invoked health reasons. I ask you, will these health reasons become a basis for freezing the auctions respectively in order to freeze the evictions respectively, or will you obey blindly what the Commission has dictated to you? Of course - I am finishing with this provision - the provision - which you are giving to the Ministry of Civil Protection could not be missed. It is a provision - a gift of opacity, even against the constant disagreements of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. What are you doing? You call urgent reasons for public order and public security for direct assignments from the back door, without any publicity, without any negotiation, without any transparency, from an inactive mechanism so far, the crisis management and risk management mechanism. How much longer will the Greek taxpayer's money be wasted to create parasitic properties? I conclude by getting exactly a statement from a daily newspaper, which features that you have made the contractors of your political system, you have made them essentially those who manipulate your legislative work. Bring them here to become literally Members, rename the Ministry of Development and Investment to a Ministry of Contractors, Suppliers and Direct Awards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos is called in Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have just heard, among other things, a quite toxic reason, intense and burdened, by the fact that I have just come to my attention, you will allow me two comments, one related to what has been heard and heard these days in the public speech. The first comment is that the Armed Forces again give the presence, next to the other state bodies, to the support and assistance of the tested local society in the wider region of Elassona, which is tested and suffers, of course, and experiences the impact, in its daily life, of the great earthquake yesterday. And this is because always, in a time of peace, the Armed Forces are at the side of society in the difficult, with acts, with works, with a great support activity. The second point is that, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the country should finally go ahead 'to move forward', as the poet says. The virus is on the rise and the relaxation of a part of the population in respect of compliance with the measures leads to further elevation. Therefore, further exacerbation leads to the need to impose new measures. The need to impose new measures not only delays the termination of the alarm, not only moves backwards the finish line, but also leads to even more irritation, fatigue, fatigue and anger. The nerves are tense, there's fatigue, there's insecurity, because of the great economic uncertainty. Balances are thin. In these circumstances, the last thing it takes right now, public life is more poison, more toxic. I will not talk about public, recent, outrageous statements by Mr Dritsa, a great deal has been said about them, and I think he himself has moved to reconstruct the initial impression. A great deal has been said, but I will only say this: such statements and reproduction of them are causing unnecessary poison in public life, diverting discussion from major national challenges, taking the country back, and the country must go forward. To go ahead, ladies and gentlemen, public life needs - let me say this - less Lingnadis, less Kufundina and more James Tsunni. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am referring to the Greek vulture, who was awarded by the President of the Republic days ago. Earlier, a few months ago, the Ministry of National Defence had also given him the rank of general at the price for his overall offer to strengthen the Armed Forces, the man who, by a decision included in his public covenant, made all his property available to the Armed Forces, in addition to all others, who so far have done with regard to the material strengthening of the Armed Forces. It is a great, bright example of eminent patriots, like what we need more than ever, like people who do not every day count their lives, considering and wondering what the country can do for them, but what can they do for their homeland. That's what we need. On this basis, therefore, what we can do for our homeland, allow me to raise in proportion to our own, of course, lesser case. Reform interventions, which are accelerating by the Ministry in the area of defence equipment supplies, are not insignificant. They are a great and useful one, I would say, an improvement in the institutional framework, to the limits of what is permitted. The right here is the limit of the European directive, from which we cannot move away, but we can make some specific, targeted improvements. For a long time we have seen the need for all of us, intergrouping, for these reforms for many years, but we have not done anything about them for many years. So we come here today and do something. The draft legislation currently under discussion incorporates and completes the necessary interventions in the critical area of public procurement in general. The aim is to optimise and accelerate the procedures for the planning, execution and conclusion of public contracts, as well as to consolidate legal certainty. Of course, the ultimate objective is to achieve the long-standing combination of speed, efficiency and transparency. The need to improve the institutional framework for public procurement in the field of defence has been expressed many and varied, both within the Armed Forces, particularly with regard to those involved in the process of concluding and implementing military equipment contracts, that is to say, the people who are experiencing each day, their everyday lives, their difficulty, and the complexity, and the arteriosclerosis in the rapid processing of these contracts, as well as in the context of the House, by the colleagues of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and the Committee on Armed Conducts. The government's strategic planning to strengthen the deterrent power of the Armed Forces is based on the timely implementation of the armament programme, as approved at all times by the established institutions of the Armed Forces and the Parliament. A key tool for the implementation of this programme is a modern, coherent and effective regulatory framework for public procurement. The proposed reform of the legislation governing the planning, conclusion and execution of public procurement in the field of defence is therefore moving towards the long-term strengthening of the availability and effectiveness of the country's weapons systems. If we ensure this possibility in our Armed Forces, then we will provide the necessary guarantees to support the human potential of the Armed Forces in the execution of their mission, but also the possibility of an effective deterrent management strategy in the country. The second part of the draft law, therefore, includes the reform changes to public procurement contracts for supply, services and works in the defence sector that we have chosen as direct and necessary. In order to develop the new institutional framework, account has been taken of the views and proposals of the relevant bodies of the Ministry, as well as of the need to support the domestic defence industry to a greater extent than was the case so far, under the conditions and possibilities of fair competition provided by national and Union law. In any event, particular importance and importance shall be attached to the fulfilment of the requirements for control, transparency and efficiency in the administrative process for the implementation of military equipment contracts. We have analysed these extensively during the two-day debate in the committee, and we have taken note of comments and interventions by colleagues. I think it was a constructive process, because in principle everyone accepted the need for the reform, they were drawn up positively in this respect and they contributed from their own perspective and with their own remarks, many of which were taken into account, to the final result of this legislative intervention. A targeted amendment is therefore made to the provisions of the existing institutional framework for public procurement. Known to restore a balance between the requirements of the contracting authority and modern market conditions and public administration. Three thematic sections are the main structure of this part. They correspond to the phase of supplying military equipment. The first relates to the planning of this process in the first articles, it concerns the procedures for determining their requirements and integrating them into a single programming, operational and financial, until the decision to implement the procurement. The second relates to the conclusion of the contract relating to the competitive procedures, which lead to the selection of the contractor's economic operators and, of course, to the conclusion of the contract concerned. The third relates to the implementation stage of the contract and concerns the monitoring and control procedures for the smooth implementation of the contract until its completion. The existing legislative framework, what we are coming to improve for defence contracts, has certainly contributed to a fairly satisfactory degree, but not entirely satisfactory, to the effective fulfilment of the needs of the Armed Forces. In the application of the provisions of the legislation, however, weaknesses and delays have been identified, gaps and inconsistencies in the modern market conditions, which have banned what we are doing today, the promoted reform intervention. I will not go so far as to say that the existing legal framework is, as some people say, a non-procurement law, because it is done and done many times if the need and the current circumstances so require. They have made some provisions, except for the existing regulatory framework. We did, but from there on, an enemy of good is the best, and I think there is a lot of room for improvement. As regards the planning of the supply of defence equipment, the existing forecasts for the preparation of the long-term and rolling programme were not applied to a certain extent, because of conceptual ambiguities in scope or funding, inter alia, leading to individual activated programmes with a repetition of approval cycles, thus adding administrative and bureaucratic costs to each programme separately. Apart from the fragmentary nature of the interventions, in other words, when we considered that we should go ahead with the adoption of a specific sub-programme, this was not in the context of a broader planning, as the long-term defence armaments programme extended. Law 3978/2011, which incorporated the European directive into the national legal order and regulates issues of competitive procedure and the conclusion of contracts, provided for certain excessive requirements and actions by economic operators in excess of the European Union's forecasts, with the result that what should be observed? Reduced attendance of economic operators in the competitive processes and inability to smooth and efficiently process tenders for equipment. Given that this process is mainly defined by the European Union directive, there has been no scope for wide change in the provisions, but the proposed interventions concern arrangements for the special legislator and, above all, for those who act negatively in attracting economic operators, both Greek small and medium-sized enterprises and foreign companies. In order not to get far, because there is no time, I repeat the structure and four - five key elements of our interventions. Part II. Article 143 to 199 First chapter. Article 143 to 146. Planning issues of public procurement in defence. Part two. Article 147 to 166. Issues concerning the conclusion of public contracts in defence. Part three. Article 167 to 176. Issues concerning the execution of public procurement in defence and the last chapter with transitional provisions. You understand the need for legal certainty and the unification of law to include these provisions in the Ministry of Development's large bill on public procurement and you understand, if you like, the sequence between planning and planning, until the end of the public procurement contract in defence. Significant changes. With regard to the planning and activation of contracts, Articles 143 to 146. Detailed description of the parts of the medium-term defence armaments programme and the rolling programme. Refers to the sources of funding for the equipment programmes, to a reduction in the ceiling for major economic value contracts to EUR 30 million, for reasons of transparency, while speeding up the procedures for all the others, with a half-yearly briefing of the House - important - instead of the procedure for the introduction of the issue of decision-making by the JRC and the drafting of a competent parliamentary committee. By separating the contracts entered for approval, depending on the financial limit, we therefore speed up the process by once submitting it to Parliament, together with the long-term programme of defence equipment, so that we do not bring in fragmentary sub-programmes here and there, with what this means in a delay. Other layout. Potential use of framework agreements as subsequent support contracts, where the conditions cannot be agreed in advance in advance, which is the case in practice continuously, with the description of essential terms and the subsequent specificity of the terms by means of the contract of implementation, which follow the framework agreement. We did this last year, with special legislative provision in the subsequent support of 'Mirage -2005' and we passed it by special law. Now, as you can see, this can be done automatically since this reform now contains it, so the existing legislative framework. Another important introduction of the single European contract: a competitive procedure under Article 160. This noteworthy amendment is made with the provision for the use of the single European contract document and also with the use of the standard form of a responsible declaration. With European standards, as you can see, a great deal of time is being saved, which was spent up to now on bureaucratic procedures, administrative burdens, since each individual company, each economic operator, compiled certificates, used different types of documents for these contracts. Now there is a single type of document, also provided for in Union law in Europe. From there on, there is an important provision for the guarantee letters and amendments to contracts and framework agreements during the course of them. Here we are moving towards a reduction in the amount of the guarantee letters in terms of the share guarantee from 5% to 2%, in terms of guaranteeing good execution from 10% to 5%, and the reason is that this will make it easier to issue the guarantees from the financial institutions to which the economic operators are subject, the companies will also be easier to provide guarantee letters, so that competition will also be more easily involved in the process. Competition is therefore also becoming more economical for more economic operators to come forward and participate. I would like to make another comment on Article 159, which is the addition of conditions and proceedings to Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon. What Article 3 paragraph says. 46? Member States, exceptionally from what is defined in European law for supplies in the defence sector, may, if they consider that this is the case, make their own planning and planning for defence supplies. To date, this was provided for in the existing institutional framework, but there was legal uncertainty, namely, that the recourse to this exception was never applied to the level of decision invoking the relevant exemption, that is to say, it could be difficult, since the framework was unclear to say that 'Okay, we go to exemption 3.46 of the Treaty of Lisbon and we draw up this convention in derogation from the current framework'. Now, it is explicitly foreseen here that the decision to exclude a military equipment contract from the rules of the Union market is taken by the CSCE, after agreement of the Hellenic Parliament's Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Contracts. The European Commission can exercise the powers described in Article 3.48 of the Treaty of Lisbon, having the opportunity to appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union against a Member State for the abusive application of this Article precisely. As you can see, in times of crisis and tension, this possibility is now particularly important for the overall planning of the Armed Forces in armaments. It is a right, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek Armed Forces play a very crucial and demanding role in safeguarding the independence and territorial integrity of our country. The fulfilment of the operational and logistical requirements of the Armed Forces requires an appropriate system of public procurement, which on the one hand provides the necessary flexibility and speed in procurement procedures, but on the other hand also save time and administrative and bureaucratic costs and improve the services provided, a question of balance between speed, efficiency and transparency. Moreover, ensuring operational readiness of the Armed Forces allows the Ministry of National Defence to carry out the medium-term planning for the next day of the National Defence with sober, confident and confident that the Armed Forces are at all times available, reliable, dissuasive and finally powerful at national, regional, European and international level. I believe that this bill and the provisions introduced by the Ministry of National Defence to improve the framework for public procurement in the field of defence are an important - perhaps more important than we think - step by step in order to achieve these objectives for stronger - in the time that we must and should - Armed Forces. I really thank the groups who come to support the need for this important reform to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u199	If I may, Mr. President? Because Mr Kegeroglu has tabled an amendment, so that I do not take the floor after that, to place myself on it for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u200	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, in principle the amendment is in the right direction, but it has been laid down by ministerial decisions. It is the amendment with a general number 784 and a special 53. He was presented today by Members of the Change Movement on the topic: 'Use the GFCM and the Defence Research, Technology and Industry Council', the so-called 'SATTB', to which I would point out the following: The proposed competence of the SAETB, the Defence Research, Technology and Industry Council, is considered to be legally covered both by Article 13(1) of Law No 2919/2001, according to which the Council recommends the main options in the planning of the government's defence and technology policy, as well as in the defence industry sector in the context of the national defence and industrial strategy and paragraph 2 of that Article. The existing legal framework therefore covers what is rightly proposed. In addition, the convening of the Defence Research, Technology and Industry Council twice a year, as well as in exceptional cases, is also foreseen. It has already been laid down in Article 3 of the ministerial decision from 16-10 to 2000, not to mention the other figures. It's our ministerial decision. Furthermore, the provision of the Council’s convening in another way, i.e. at the suggestion of one of the representatives of the domestic defence industry, must be based on that Ministerial Decision. If appropriate, this Council may be convened. You are right to ask for this to be done more consistently, with periodicity and frequency, because this advisory body adds to the planning possibilities, especially in the area of the domestic defence industry, but this has already been envisaged and already exists in the general regulatory framework, both at the level of law and at ministerial level. Therefore, the amendment is welcome, but it is not acceptable, because this possibility is already provided for in the Treaties. In any case, however, we agree at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA. Elected in the B1 North Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that, after the general outcry, the Minister previously deplored the 'blue' authors who were vaccinated by a derogation from the series. I would like to believe that this disapproval and the political condemnation and the reluctance of the country's political world will put a brake on this situation, even today, because we had heard the same at the end of December, when 'blue' strains were trampled over on who will enter and who will be vaccinated again at the end of December. Unfortunately, it is a concept that must be stopped, which the state sees as a spoil. When such things happen, we cannot respond as an organised and coordinate state, as a public health system for transplanters, cancer patients, chemotherapists, radiotherapists, immunocompromised patients, severe heart disease or people with pulmonary disease, kidney patients, diabetics with severe impairment, those who have liver impairment and have not yet come to age, because there was no prevention that these groups should get into a more rapid situation to be vaccinated. This is not like the pandemic that came and hit us unexpectedly or the British and African executives, which are harder. This is something that we knew since the pandemic came, that when the vaccine comes, there should be a care for them too. They were unfortunately in the final design of this government and were unseen and invisible. There must be care, even now, for these categories, which are vulnerable, to be able to take a order of priority and to stop the blue trick in vaccines. Now for the bill, we are faced today with a bill, which actually wants to bring the environment and public spaces to private interests. This is a dangerous and bad legacy. It is a disaster that both the citizens and the environment will come out. Instead of helping to simplify and speed up procedures and bureaucracy, you will unfortunately achieve exactly the opposite. You said SYRIZA's public procurement law in 2010 was problematic. No one denies that there were issues in its implementation, but the draft law that Mr Georgiadis brings today will create issues of transparency and corruption. I am of course referring to the assignment of the supervision of public procurement and works to private individuals. Say it clearly: Bring a bill to serve specific interests. You are supposed to solve the problem of subscribing the technical services of the government, which your government is constantly depreciating and degrading. They are technical services with specialised and experienced staff. Why do you not implement the three-year recruitment programme of a thousand five hundred scientists to strengthen the technical services launched by SYRIZA? In the case of public work, it must be the public, not private, training, incentives and experience. Over the past decades, too many major public works, such as dams, streets, schools, hospitals, public buildings, even Olympic works, have been successfully completed under the supervision of public diplomats. We must finally stop the unrestricted transfer of public competences to public limited companies operating outside public control under a special preferential regime. Where supervision is entrusted to individuals, an additional substantial cost is incurred as a remuneration to the total budget of the project, which is borne by the citizens. They are of course private, directly or indirectly dependent on large construction companies. You are not actually telling us whether the project auditor will be at the same time as the audited one. The Single Independent Public Procurement Authority itself criticises the alleged innovation introduced by the Government on the supervision of works by private individuals. So you hand over the supervision and execution of public works, studies, the preparation of large groups. The result will be zero control on public works by the State. As if not all of this were enough, Mrs. Keramou comes and equates the professional rights of graduates of colleges and graduates of five-year-olds of engineering, thus degrading the Greek public know-how in order to hamper private interests. At a time when the need to implement projects and tenders and to directly absorb the resources of the Recovery Fund and the NRP is imperative, public administration is at risk of being paralysed on your own responsibility. The proposed provisions increase the limit of direct awards from EUR 20,000, which is currently EUR 30,000 for supplies and services and EUR 60,000 for projects. Also, increase the threshold for contracts for which data are collected and published in the Central Public Procurement Register from EUR 1,000 to EUR 2,500. These provisions will surely create further issues of transparency and corruption. If you consider us excessive, at least listen to those responsible. Listen to what Mr Joseph Abramides said, a member of the board of directors of the "International Transparency Greece". Why are you doing all this? In any case, for a year now, you have served in a tsunami of direct assignments, in derogation from the fixed provisions, in a tsunami of opacity and customer relations. You want to create further opacity fields. A major issue concerns the provisions on the environment and the protected areas of NATURA. You know, the NATURA regions are not the choice of each country in the European Union. It's a Community obligation. You actually want to dismantle the protected areas. You are humiliating the country and putting it out of a European context. It is revealed how hypocritical and communication are the so - called environmental profiles of Mr. Mitsotakis. This is the 'green' government of Mr Mitsotakis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You want to create holes - if I may have a minute, Mr President - within NATURA regions, characterizing them as subregions within protected areas for mild activities. Generalities and arbitrary practices, without clarification. Leave open all potential, good evil. That's never happened before. Environmental protection must be done in a non-interrupted and intact manner. In the altar of private interests, you sacrifice habitats and habitats. Already dozens of environmental organisations have made a joint announcement. So far, thousands of citizens have signed against the provisions of rape in the NATURA and the environment in general. You are fully ignoring the specific environmental studies that must have been completed by the end of 2021. What's the rush? Didn't you ever want them to be completed? Your persistence and your persistence will lead the country to accounting and will be damaged by dozens of EU fines for violating environmental regulations. Then, these will be imposed by Greek taxpayers. Create photographic devices to serve specific investors privilegedly. You are interested in concluding some agreements for the few. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We - I am closing with this, Mr President - as a SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, with a sense of responsibility towards the Greeks and Greeks, are calling on the government, even now, to change direction. The bill will be detrimental to citizens, the environment, the technical world. If you know this and despite all the reactions of society and the political world you continue, then prove that you are the slaves of great private interests. You are not interested in the country, but only in the service of these interests. Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u204	Be well. Let's go for a walk to the Peloponnese and specifically to Elias Prefecture. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy. On 17.15 the Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos will speak. And at around 17:30, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport will speak, Mr Karamanlis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has launched an important reform project since the beginning of its term of office, implementing its election commitments and continuing to do so at a difficult time. This draft law is another reform that serves our development policy. This is a draft law by the Ministry of Development with important and urgent provisions concerning responsibilities and other ministries. It is essentially about reforming the regulatory framework for public procurement, public works, but also about a number of other critical development issues with key objectives of speed, simplification of procedures, transparency and red tape. We must start with a basic admission: SYRIZA in 2016 voted for Law 4412, making three hundred and eighty-nine changes in the legislative framework. It has failed to achieve all the above objectives. We all remember SYRIZA, who said that it would table a change in the legislation on national defence. He didn't do it. I guess he didn't catch up with that either. Law 4412 requires immediate and substantial changes. And the delaying of radical changes in public procurement and public works, the hampering of our development policy. Considering the suffocating consequences that pandemic has caused in the economy and the great challenge for the country to absorb 72 billion from the Recovery Fund in the years to come, the need to change the institutional framework of Law 4412 becomes imperative, I would say historically. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many provisions which are of great importance and we could refer to them. It is particularly important for red tape to reduce the provision for compulsory use of electronic tools in all procurement procedures with a value of more than EUR 30 000. It is important for transparency that the compulsory suspension of contract data for more than EUR 2,500 is in the Central Electronic Register. It is important for speed to allow a competitive procedure for the award of a project design and construction contract and before the completion of environmental authorisations. In this way, failures and inappropriate solutions are being addressed, due to poor, often geotechnical research, which lead to long delays in the implementation of a project. With the strengthening of the design system - construction, the contractor assumes part of the responsibility, since final studies are also signed by him. It is also very important to regulate the problem of unusually low tenders, which has remained unsuccessful to Law 4412, since not only are they considered to be unusually low tenders, but the justification for the reduction is now part of the contract that binds the contractor contractually. Finally, for the speed of implementation the provision for project supervision beyond the technical service responsible and a certified private supervisory body is particularly important. Of course, it is of the utmost national importance that forecasts of the conventions on the defence of our country, which make a significant contribution, not only to the great issue of speed, but also to credibility and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus particularly on an important point concerning my country, the Ilias Prefecture, a prefecture with great natural beauty and protected areas of NATURA and also residential control zones. Half the prefecture, in fact, on its southern side, in the Cyprassian Gulf has been condemned to be marred by the c.c. Regulation (EC) No 391/2018. No growth of any kind, not even mild in form, is possible in an area that is even 30 km away from the coast. The SYRIZA government did absolutely nothing. Convict this area. In a unique beauty it did not bring about the slightest investment, as, of course, we did not invest in the rest of Greece. For years, we have been waiting for studies to regulate the use of these regions, while always respecting the environment. Unfortunately, this process is delaying, as is the case with the development of the region. That is why, because I represent an area that pays the price of inertia, I am dealing with the regulation of 219 as a key factor in speeding up developments either as a lever of pressure on the road of studies and achieving a definitive solution or in promoting investment projects until a definitive solution is reached. This provision, in fact, regulates the process of design and control in areas of protection for projects of public interest within a transitional framework until the completion of the adoption of specific environmental studies. This opens the way for a new special project that will protect the natural environment, since there are institutional security controls and at the same time strengthen the economy of the country. Here, once again, we find the strong reaction of SYRIZA, but also of Mera25 and of the JRC. It is the same reaction to any investment that can bring growth and create jobs. This time, the problem is not only the hostility towards private initiative, but also the so-called sensitivity to the protection of protected areas of NATURA. Ladies and gentlemen, your problem is not just that you have not brought any investment in your years of governance. Your problem was that you did not do anything four and a half years for the NATURA regions. It is really hypocrisy today to talk about protecting these regions. Everyone is aware of the European Commission's decision, which condemns our country for infringements of environmental legislation concerning these protected areas. I am reading a quote from a communication from the European Commission on 25 July 2019: ‘The Commission has repeatedly asked Greece to fulfil these obligations. In February 2015, a letter of formal notice was sent, followed by a reasoned opinion in February 2016 and an additional reasoned opinion was sent in March 2018. To date, Greece has not notified the timetable for the completion of the process. The Commission therefore decided to refer the case back to the Court of Justice of the European Union.’ Then came the conviction. Despite repeated complaints by the European Commission, you have done nothing to protect these regions. I am tabling the relevant press release of the European Commission and the Court of Justice. [[At this point Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not to talk about the rest of your environmental achievements, which we do not have time to list here, such as infringements in the application of rules on reducing carbon dioxide from fuels, waste management over your days, zero progress in recycling, the European Union's policy warning letters, in relation to energy upgrades and much more. I am tabling the European Commission's Practical Press Releases. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Remember, too, your reactions to the policy of liberating the Government of New Democracy and to selective permits on your day in NATURA areas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our reform work. We remain faithful to our commitments, against the voices of hypocrisy and backwardness. With speed, flexibility and transparency, with respect to the environment, we are creating the conditions for the next day from the pandemic, to address the challenges of the era and to re-enter our country into a path of growth and creation. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Nicolakopoulou. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, things would have been better, at least in trying to deal with the critical situation, if the Government and Civic Opposition were also at the height of the circumstances. The Government could say that it is a government of end-failing failures and exceptional operation, whether it relates to works or to supplies, even to vaccinations, exceptionally even to legislation. This is the first time since 1974 that an amendment has been tabled and accepted by the Minister - I am talking about number 772 - without any provision. It accepts the amendment only with the rapporteur's report and I submit it in the Minutes as a monument to good legislation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have also referred to Criminal Opposition, because in fact a credible rather than challenging Criminal Opposition could have pushed the government on a better footing. But that is not possible, unfortunately. I'm not just talking about the Dritsa press statements or anything else. I am referring to bilingualism, which exists with SYRIZA in the House and Mr Tsipras denounces the suspension of demolitions and SYRIZA in Halkidiki, to be the first to not be demolished. I am tabling the SYRIZA MP's announcements in Halkidiki to see that this bilingualism is not random, but it is a conscious turbulence to say what the local society wants to hear, but all that will make us to be with the environment and the other basic principles, which really should not be violated. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we have a position on that that is a problem that needs to be addressed. Unfortunately, they left it and it was incited. It must be addressed, but it also needs consultation and proper moves to do this. Since I've caught the Qualified Opposition to finish with it to catch up with the government then. I heard Mr. Spirtzi talking this morning. I begin with honouring him, since in addition to being well known as the modern generosity of the party that highlighted him, he is also the leader of the deadly bodies of technological education in Greece. Mr. Gabroglou, as you know, abolished higher education and left hundreds of thousands of graduates of the TEIs on the air, without even matching their degrees. The project continued by Mrs Kerameou, who restored secondary technical education with a low level of training. Of course, Mrs. Kerameos also mocks diplomats and graduate engineers, because she brought a provision on the back door for the recognition of all kinds of colleges. The Minister announced that he would amend Article 195. It is in the right direction, but both 200 and 204 relating to disciplinary matters must be amended. He's right. You also have to correct, Mr Ministers, and the issue with GEMM. It is not possible for GEME, the single register of entrepreneurship, to become tracks and every piece to give it to a guild. That is, the geoponets at GEOTE, the engineers at the TEI, the economists at the Chamber of Economics. In the end, only non-graduate OHS entrepreneurs, OHS, etc. will be left in the business chambers and GHS. What are these things? Either there is a single GEME or there is no GEME. Is that the seriousness you're dealing with? We're at a pandemic time, a pandemic that told us we need to be serious. That's what the pandemic told us. In addition to the dangers that have brought us and we must face up to it, he tells us that you are refocusing his policy on man and his environment. Bring systems, which have to do with global cooperation, democratic governance systems with rules, transparency and efficiency, using modern technology. Not what you bring here and you legislate. We need to rethink the way in which we produce, develop and live. These are the messages of the pandemic. We have proposed a comprehensive plan for you. Through our perspective, with our small powers, we say that growth and social cohesion can be achieved by making use of all the wealthy sources that the country has at its disposal from the Recovery Fund, the NSRF, the CFP and all the other resources, the rich production sources. We have a bill - which we are discussing - on public procurement and, unfortunately, there has not been an evaluation of its operation so far, a weighting that really needs to be changed, improved. I'll say it's not three hundred or five hundred corrections. Along with today's amendments are a total of eight hundred. That means a new institutional framework. So, with substantial consultation, a new institutional framework had to be established, looking at the relevant European directive from the outset. There is no social dimension in this bill. There is no provision for social reference contracts, for corporate social responsibility. They have issues of effectiveness. One hundred or so regulatory acts to be adopted. While there are reductions in transparency and rules. There is no such efficacy. It is not that you have effectiveness and therefore a discount on transparency is justified. Not one or the other! Of course, you have the system of exceptional awards. You will not apply Law 4412. You will apply the exceptional law, the "bouquet" procedure, which you have found and which most of the procedures are done on the basis of the exceptional procedure, as I told you at the beginning. Can this continue after the blow we have received from the pandemic? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, I have no time to analyse all the issues I would like to see. I conclude by saying that institutional guarantees, rules and everything that would give us the opportunity to really simplify procedures to make a reprisal law, there are no instruments as guarantees. That could be there. Specific issues - our rapporteur mentioned them - both for disabled people and for matters relating to the system that the Minister and yesterday told us is introducing with the private sector. The private sector can be introduced, but under rules that ensure the public interest. No, "Yiannis is buying, Yannis drinks it again." See, at least at the last minute, the differentiation in relation to who he chooses. Who pays is another matter. The project actually pays. The contractor's not paying. Of course, the public interest must be guaranteed. For the provisions of the Ministry of Defence, we agree in the general context. There are comments that we have made in individual articles. But we are voting for these amendments, changes - they are not reforms said by the Minister - which are becoming an institutional framework that we created in 2011. A serious assessment has been made and amendments to the 2011 legislative framework can help, although the juncture may have allowed and imposed more significant changes, which have not taken place. The amendment we tabled considers that it can be replaced by ministerial decisions. We want institutional guarantees and laws and we insist on it. I refer also to the last amendment, which relates to the incompatibility, tax-free and incompatibility of aid, which will be paid by regional programmes. Mr Adonis Georgiadis told us yesterday that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and that is why he cannot accept it. This morning, I am very surprised to hear Mr Christos Stakouras saying that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Development. Finally, make it clear what responsibility is. What's of interest to us in any case, is that they're incomprehensible and that the bugs aren't grabbing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. The speaker now has the floor of the New Democracy MP Christoforos Boutsikakis and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are creating a modern institutional framework for accelerating public works and dealing with chronic pathogens. Today we are doing another election commitment from the New Democracy. The 2016 Public Procurement Act, although passed with good intentions and wider cross-party consensus, practically presented very serious weaknesses. SYRIZA, as a government, changed the law, not one, not ten, but more than three hundred eighty times - the Minister mentioned it in detail before - ensuring an appropriate ground for maintaining bureaucracy, inefficiency, endless procedures, delays in the implementation of projects and thus low quality in public investment. It is high time, then, that we put an end to the inadequacy and the fragmentary arrangements with an overall reform, a reform which, in order to be implemented, needs half of the regulatory acts provided for by the SYRIZA Act. We're changing the landscape to public procurement. We are simplifying and speeding up procedures. We are expanding the use of electronic tools. We are increasing the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises. In this way, we have been carrying out projects that have been bogged for years. We improve the quality of public goods, services and works. We guarantee integrity and transparency. We put the country on a real growth orbit. The increase in efficiency will strengthen the Greek public's potential in the realisation of public investment. In addition, it will contribute to the faster absorption and utilisation of European funds and financial facilities. This is an extremely important point in view of the upcoming programming period for the ESRB and, of course, the use of the Recovery Fund. In particular, public contracts relating to the infrastructure and construction industry are expected to have a leading role in the mitigation of the recession, the creation of many new jobs and, of course, the recovery of the Greek economy and Brain-gain. The construction industry is closely linked to the investments. It could be said that there are areas such as tourism, industry and commerce, housing development and environmental protection. Modernising, simplifying and overall reforming the institutional framework for public procurement is now of the utmost importance in the post-war period. The implementation of the new arrangements is a prerequisite for the adequacy and effective implementation of the projects and programmes concerned. For all these reasons, we have ensured that projects of particular importance to the economy of the country are quickly auctioned, executed and delivered quickly. We are facing the causes that have led to the difficulty or even to the failure to complete these projects. We are making use of the private sector's capabilities to provide expertise. We are simplifying, digging the procedures and exempting services from unnecessary bureaucracy. We are dealing with delays from the involvement with the justice system. We are creating a flexible framework as a whole, which will make a significant contribution to the promotion of investment. But we don't just live in them. We support small and medium-sized enterprises with the 'e-Retail' programme in order to adapt to the new market conditions because of the pandemic. We are finally strengthening the accessibility of our fellow citizens with disabilities to public buildings. Ladies and gentlemen, this flagship, I will call it, a bill with a thousand seven hundred pages, is the result of a long, painful and much study and hard process work. There was cooperation with the whole range of authorities and economic operators who either participated in the public consultation or submitted statements and proposals directly to the Ministries. At the same time, there was also international consultation with both the European Commission and the World Bank. Positive comments, positive evaluations from everywhere, from all stakeholders, other than opposition. Producers, enterprises and stakeholders welcome this legislation. A direct start of tendering of projects and investments is required. Do not lose the gold chance of the Recovery Fund. I therefore call on all political forces and all of you Members to support this effort to modernise public procurement, to make effective use of European funds and to develop the country's economic development. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a reference to the political speech of the last few days on the statement by my fellow citizen and MP and former Minister of SYRIZA, Dritsa, at the 'Canali One' of Piraeus. Speaking after me, I would like to apologise to the families of the victims, from all democratic spirits, to all democratic citizens for this statement, which really makes us and we are ashamed of being said by a Member! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u210	Thank you too, Mr Butsikaki. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Really, what projects are we talking about? Who determines the construction priorities or not of a project? Two topical questions will help in answering. The first issue is pandemic. How much has the primary care been shielded, the hospitals, the ICUs, the National Health System with personnel, with machinery, with all the necessary equipment that can be in line with the requirements of the twentieth century? However, on the contrary, health marketing in our country and elsewhere has led to this limit state of the health system, that is to say it is a national system of a disease, only COVID. The second example is the earthquake, which took place in the region of Elassona. Is this an unprecedented phenomenon? Is this the first time in Greece? Should there be a teacher's sacrifice to save the children from school in Damasy? How many schools in Greece are in the same, similar or worse situation? How many schools in Greece do not comply with the earthquake regulation because they have been built before by the earthquake regulation? We are only talking about schools and not about the rest of the buildings, public or private. Why has no government so far, nor has SYRIZA, taken any specific measures of earthquake control and anti-Semitism shielding of buildings? It is very simple: because they are not eligible by the European Union, they are not eligible by the business groups for their profit. That is why these works were not carried out by any government. So we say it clearly, the priorities for the projects that need to be done are not defined by the needs of the people and their satisfaction, but the needs of business groups for the reproduction of capital, for their own interests, for their capitalist profits in the final analysis. This is precisely the logic behind the European Union's cost-benefit policy. To build a project, he says, there must be the corresponding benefit for the man who makes it and operates it. The benefit is not measured by human lives, it is measured by profit in capitalism. Second matter. You talk and close to all falls and the government, but also the Civic Opposition and the Change Movement and other parties, about how to deal with issues of transparency, resource savings. But this is the shortest joke heard in conditions of capitalist sovereignty. Do you not know that the ironic law of this system is inalienable, that the state buys very expensive and sells obediently? Why is this urban state doing this? It does so again, to ensure an even greater profit rate for business groups. On this very basis, all the "flowers" of intertwined and corruption are blooming. We had an unmistakable segregation between the President of Officer Tsipras, and Mr Georgiadis on corruption in the public sector, as if what is happening today is an unprecedented fact. Thirdly, the draft law follows on from the previous governments. What's he doing today? Why do these changes come today? Because the government - the bourgeoisie of our country - wants to speed up and overcome the minimum safeguards left over from all the previous changes and which make it difficult for business groups to act inconsistently, so that the funds can be absorbed more quickly from the European Union. In this way, extensive electronic procedures, broadening of limits, accelerating the concentration of projects, speeding up the PPPs, generalising the method of designing construction, which in essence lead to a concentration in the construction sector, substantially facilitates the action of major business groups in construction. It extends the institution of arbitration for large projects, so that is to say the State's resignation from judicial assistance and protection. It proceeds to extensive privatise and project control procedures, such as the manufacturer's measurement. Really, is that something unprecedented? Haven't you seen it privatize the functions before? Is it not the government of SYRIZA that launched private planning for the strategic investments made by the investor itself in breach of and derogating from the conditions of spatial planning and town planning and the corresponding plans? Now why do you think it's strange that the government is taking control of private individuals? Because this is how a further step is taken on the road of the strategic digital state, with a shrinking and deterioration of public services and functions. This is precisely the basis of the changes in the TEI that you are even more entrepreneurial in its operation. Its supervisory and disciplinary role is strengthened in order to relieve the bourgeois state, but also the employer's responsibilities which are observing their rules and transferring them to engineers. In substance, therefore, the priorities, terms and specifications are defined by the manufacturer and these terms and specifications are determined on the basis of the manufacturer’s profit maximisation. In other words, you have done nothing different as a government than all the previous governments, for example, on the major roads that the SYRIZA government celebrates over them. Didn't the Greek people pay them? Didn't they officially go to the construction groups? And did you not make such lion contracts that are compensated by manufacturers who manage roads in case the movement is less than the one provided for in the contracts or in matters of force majeure? Here, the government, instead of making sure manufacturers are open the roads, closed the highway for five points of snow, as the government does to all. Instead of making sure that the roads are open, you are subsidising them and above because of force majeure. Fourth issue. A great deal of talk about environmental protection with the provisions on protected areas and the amendment that has been tabled. You allow Article 219 within NATURA areas to have special zones with specific environmental studies to support investment projects. It is hypocrisy for all of you who are shouting about environmental protection and you have been in the government, because the profit hunt is what destroys the environment, be it green investments and green energy, or other forms of investment. Or the profit hunt itself adjusts the environment to needs. For example, tourist investments. So the protection of the environment cannot be taken into account in the logic of involvement between the different conflicting business interests. Either you're with hydrocarbons and mining, or you're with aquaculture or tourism development. Well, it's not like that. In both cases the environment is destroyed, precisely because of capitalist profits. The amendment brought about by the government to freeze demolition on seas, lakes and rivers, came after strong pressure from hotel and businessmen, who are active in the tourism sector, and it is known that such structures are banned. What are they protecting on the substance? They protect by this arrangement the illegal buildings, which exist in the cavalry and which serve specific business interests. Environmental protection conflicts with business interests. You're in conflict with the bourgeois state itself, if you want to protect the environment. Why is there any protection that we can talk about, even in protected areas and in NATURA areas, when there is no necessary infrastructure for the necessary personnel or services to protect it? The lack of, for example, anti-nuclear zones in such areas leads to fire damage. So, in the opinion of the JRC, it is common to fight for the protection of human life by protecting the environment and the fight to satisfy the modern needs of the working class and our people with the same protection and upgrading of the environment. The result of all this: the design of major projects at the expense of the people's needs and the satisfaction of, for example, projects such as road axes, at the expense of workers in the construction and engineering sector, at the expense of protecting the environment in order to serve the designs and priorities of urban order. That is precisely what defence spending and supplies are all about. What are the changes you bring to today's bill? They adapt the policy of supply and armaments in such a way that it can go hand in hand with the upgrading of the geostrategic role of the bourgeoisie in our country, in the region, by upgrading and greater involvement in American imperialist designs. This is, of course, at the expense of our country's sovereign rights and the security of the region and of the peoples in these areas. Why? Because this is how NATO and the United States are being supported, which are a factor of destabilisation in the region, which do not recognise borders and sovereign rights. After all, the realisation in these days of the 'Defender Europe 2021' exercise is nothing but a rehearsal of war involving the Greek Armed Forces. It is, in other words, a test of aggressive US and NATO plans at the expense of Russia. And from this point of view, the government has delivered the port of Alexandroupolis, the road and rail network to the process of this war rehearsal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u212	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u213	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much. Besides, Mr. Koutsubas had not given up time, so I too have two more thoughts. As long as, ladies and gentlemen, supplies and the production of large projects and infrastructures are made on the basis of profit, then this cannot make the conditions so that constructions, state markets are carried out in order to satisfy people's needs. The latter's coverage is a radically different development path. We say this clearly: it requires the way of the working people's power to socialise the means of production in industry, energy, water, telecommunications, public transport construction, wholesale and retail trade, concentrated tourist and food infrastructures, and capitalist farms. Concentrated production will be operated by scientific central planning and by labour control according to popular needs. Only under these circumstances can they guarantee both the balanced development of construction to meet the people's needs, whether they are in housing, or they are in the protection of human life from floods, fires, earthquakes, the safeguarding of free spaces, but also at the same time the needs for infrastructure and projects to support agricultural production, industry and other services. In this way, the needs of the people are met and the position of the workers is upgraded, but the environment is also protected. In capitalism combined all these criteria cannot be met. On the other hand, it is a system which breaks down the fulfilment of these needs. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. You have no complaint, you have spoken more than your President. I will give Mr Georgios Tsipras the floor from SYRIZA and then to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis. Then there's Mr. Blucho, Mr. Spanakis, Mr. Dritsas, and there we'll have a big break, as far as I can imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Mostly, I will confine myself to the issues of defence supplies, to the more specific provisions. However, both arms - both general and special - for defence are indicative of the so-called state of service. In other words, instead of entering elementary order into whatever problems were in one and the other legislative frameworks, things have become much worse, much more complex and multi-educated. This is your final state. I shall, however, start with the issue of the rest of the environment. It is still an environmentally sound bill and has caused the reactions of dozens of ecological organizations. We have to stop this hypocrisy at some point. The New Democracy has not brought a bill that tightens environmental protection legislation, the regulatory framework, rather than deregulation the environmental framework to date. It has brought two bills of fireworks on climate change, but absolutely nothing on the environment. On the other hand, it constantly brings amendments or internal regulations to other bills, bills regulating the protection of the environment. Because love and cough are not hidden, what is the New Democracy program? The New Democracy programme says that it is our responsibility to protect the environment, which we do not attract - quickly - investments. Actually, she doesn't care to protect the environment. From international studies, it is known that environmental protection is not negative for investment. It is much less than 5% in how much it can play a role as a factor. What I want to say here - this is about hypocrisy - is that climate change is not environmental protection. Climate change is a global issue, it is not only about Greece. It is important to respect and enhance its commitments to the measures to be taken by each country, together with Greece, but it is not environmental policy. Environmental policy means protecting what we have inherited, which has already suffered very great catastrophes, mountains, forests, rivers, beaches, seas. To protect what we have inherited and to enhance both our terms of life and our children and the children of our children and go by saying. That's why nothing is going on at all. While in all the developed countries of the planet there is a direction of tightening up, here we are constantly going backwards. The disaster that has been so far, unfortunately, has not been the result of any climate change in our country. It's been precisely since unreasonable growth. I'm coming to the Department of Defense. While, in general, the direction is positive, many provisions also suffer in the chapter on defence supplies and first of all on the issue of pluralism. Whilst, in other words, there could be a methodical and organised preparation with reasonable consistency, with the distribution of procedures and the continuity of the forecasts for the implementation of procurement, not only continues legal disruption, but the government expands it so that it does not make any difference to the demonstrable connections between the relevant public procurement provisions between the various dispersal laws. This piece of legislation does not solve the relative distrust of Law 3978, the legal framework in force until now, which, instead of being scattered into three laws, will be scattered into four laws. The second and extremely important point is that no provision has been made at all for the State's responsibility - moreover it is also in the Prime Minister's announcements - for the development of the domestic defence industry, state and private. Mr. Mitsotakis reminded me that last September in Thessaloniki he announced a generous increase in the defence industry. All the steps that have been taken since then and the practical steps, but at legislation level alone, do not ensure. The question is whether you are going to reinforce or deceive and divest the defence industry, and I mean not only the public, but also the private defence industry. If legal commitments are not recorded in the existing draft law for an essentially defence industry support, it is like leading it to the executive extract. An undisputed and unambiguous argument about this position is the recent adoption of a law on the supply of the eighteen ‘Rafale’ with the corresponding equipment. A package of EUR 2 billion has not been given the minimum sub-strategic work of either one euro in the defence industry, when - as you well know - there are already know-how in the country, various components are being built, etc. It is one of the most serious - if not the most serious - political issue of the bill. The domestic defence industry is not mentioned anywhere. We must stop here the relevant secreto, which is in place in the relevant European directive. According to the European Union's own statistics following the incorporation of this directive more than 85% of defence supplies and services contracts are guaranteed within Member States. So, in order to say things in their name to the contract, we - or any contract - draw up by the Ministry of Defence, having, of course - as a primary aim of protecting the vital interests of the country and in another direction, of establishing a contract for the supplier and we simply ratify it, as has been done very recently. We have shown, as a government, the welfare and sensitivity of drawing up a national defence industrial strategy, which we have already formalised as an institutional text in the CSCE. From what we have seen, this text has no luck to date and has no luck in implementing it in the future, as we have seen in the case of Rafale. Let me remind you - just because it has been said by several ministers and it is wrong - that the provisions of the directive No 81/2009 allow the implementation of the supply where domestic industrial participation is linked to the requirement for a sub-work. The most economically advantageous tender is allowed, where industrial participation will be one of the evaluation criteria, provided that this criterion is not greater in the weighting of criteria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't have any more time, unfortunately. I want to close with two remarks. I had no more time to refer to the other provisions concerning the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure. But I want to say something about defence. Of all the great promises and announcements made by the Minister, nothing has come forward at all. One is the investment of the Greek. I should like to remind you of what was said in the election, but also immediately after the elections. The other is the investment in Scaramaga, and the third is the investment in Elefsina. Mr. Papathanases - I still remember - said in style in the summer of 2019: "Wait, Mr. Tsipras, and you'll see where Eleusina might be going." Approaching wherever it is the second summer in the summer 2021. Finally, as far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, we have fortunately not seen anything about the very big scandal that is going to take place in Kalamata and we hope that the government has brained and will not go ahead with what it was planning to do. Otherwise, what the Chief of Staff Response said about the hundreds of thousands of euros will be literally crustaceans in front of such a big 2 billion scandal, for something we can cover as a need for the country's defence with a few hundred million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u217	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u218	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u219	Mr Tsipras, what you said shows either total ignorance of what is happening or simply the usual happy mood of the SYRIZA to level everything out and humiliate reality. As for the Greek, the whole project is unlocked. The first day you read in the press about the bids by two giant foreign companies to "LAMDA" to buy the skyscrapers in Greek. To make offers by foreign companies, to have money to buy something that won't start, you know it's a little ridiculous of your business. The whole process is over. The casino contest's over. We are waiting for the Court of Auditors to be awarded and then the main task is to do so. In addition, during the previous months, the precursors, which completed the demolitions, were completed in order to make the excavations ready as soon as the shares were transferred. So the Greek is moving forward and moving forward and is within a timeframe. There was a delay, as at the beginning of the precursors, by one year because of the disagreement between the two companies, who indeed wanted a year in the courts to clear up the case. After all, that's why we got to Law 4412. However, the Greek is going on and in the next few days I think in the House we will also have the final arrangements from the Ministry of Finance. As far as the shipyards are concerned, what you are saying is farewell and wrong. Since Mr Papathanassis told you this - 'Don't wait', etc. - You know very well that the process has gone too far. We found the sponsor for EMU, the US investment bank 'DFC', took the shares, Mr. Xenokostas of the yard to become the due diligence, completed the due diligence by the company 'ERNST & YOUNG', surrendered the conclusion of the company 'ERNST & YOUNG'. As I have informed the House in a question by Mr Kegeroglou, unfortunately, the finding is very bad, because the debts that the shipyard has ultimately been a great deal greater than we have all calculated, at least 150 million more than the initially calculated debts. However, the negotiations with EMU and the 'DFC' are still progressing, and in the next few weeks we will also have the final proposals. Thus, neither has one sticked, which is in the final straight and goes ahead and the main work - the precursor work had already begun - nor the other has been stuck. It is simply more difficult, since the final debts that remain - I am simply saying this about the House to know the number - after the haircut is 300 million. Thanks where.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating many different issues today. But we also need to discuss a very important bill. You will allow me to say that I really feel sorry for the fact that we heard the Chief of Officership speak almost forty-five minutes and refer to the bill almost in titles. I do not think that this procedure honours parliamentarianism here. Mr Tsipras could talk about the current issues, but he could also take some time for a bill, which brings substantial changes in the area of public procurement. Obviously, Mr. Tsipras did this because he remembered his own bill of own government, Law 4412, who, although some accused us of making cheap criticism, was modified not once - not two, but three hundred eighty-five times. We are therefore bringing in a bill, which we say is and is a huge and necessary institutional reform. It is something that will create and give all the necessary tools to the ministries, regions and municipalities to implement their policies. What is ultimately of interest to Greek women and Greeks is to make the projects faster, more transparent and more effective. It's a hard equation. We never said that this is easy. We have also said at previous meetings, where I think a very serious dialogue has taken place, that the balance between transparency and efficiency is what is being called for. And that's what we're going to do. We talked about SYRIZA's Law 4412. Here you will allow me a very small political observation. We're the n. We voted for SYRIZA's 4412, ladies and gentlemen. We have voted against several articles. And then with the Vice-Presidents - Mr Metarakis, if I remember correctly, he was rapporteur, I was a parliamentary representative in the bill - we made a criticism. However, we voted in principle. You today don't do the same. You come here today and with the opposition of the misery that characterizes you - we now see it in all its appearances, when your members, and even your Chief, are going up to the Step of the House - you have decided to vote against this bill. You'll be judged by the citizens for that. Now we're going to change and what we want to do. What is our main argument? And to be honest, I didn't hear serious criticism. We say that projects will now become faster, more economical, more flexible and more transparent. The most critical change is that the manufacturing system and the auction can run alongside environmental licensing. This is very important. We don't make environmental discounts. However, we think that we need to implement quickly and quickly a series of procedures so that we can reduce contractual times. What else do we do? Introducing private supervision. I am going to go into detail next. We facilitate the process of accounts. We motivate an additional 5% remuneration for the delivery of projects earlier than their contractual deadline, since one of the biggest problems we have is that the projects go far beyond their timetables. We are establishing digitisation procedures, such as an electronic calendar. We are abolishing the draws for the election of committees, which in practice has never worked. Finally, we are able to settle disputes arbitraryly, because in Greece we all know that when the child of the appeals begins, we never end. But here we have two more major changes. The first change has to do with discounts, with what we say in the technical world: unusually low offers. Experience has shown that especially in the years of crisis, the higher the discount, the higher the cost of overheads, even the initial budget and timetables. We are trying to put an end to this, which led to excessively high discounts, which did not help to complete the projects or when they were completed, were completed with huge delays and great financial excesses. That was something that the European Commission has repeatedly pointed out to us. So what do we do? Practical things. We say that anyone who makes a reduction of 10 percentage points higher than the average of the discounts of the other bids must explain it, which I think the common sense dictates. If this justification is sufficient and the service is accepted - the state, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is the service that will ultimately decide on all serious issues - then it becomes part of the contract. The main thing is that this is binding. At the same time, we are establishing something, which is also important. We are turning - here have heard signs and monsters, you will allow me to say - the system of audits into a declaratory to facilitate the accounts. What is the case today, ladies and gentlemen? Today, when the measurements are drawn up, they are submitted by the contractor to the service, the municipality, the district, ministries and the service have forty-five days to check them. If he controls them and finds something wrong, then of course he doesn't pay for it, but there's no other impact on the contractor. While, if he fails to check them within the deadline, they are automatically deemed to be approved and thus paid. Anyone who has elementary contact with the subject knows that in most cases, especially when the service has limited capabilities - we are talking about services and contracting entities, which are small municipalities - there is no control, because it is simply not enough for employees to control all these accounts within forty-five days. What's next? The public pays, in many cases, more than it has to pay. In other words, the contractor knows that he will not be controlled, and when we know that we will not be controlled, we in fact charge more than we should. What are we changing? Measurements shall be drawn up and submitted by the contractor, who shall be obliged to certify them for their accuracy. They shall not automatically be considered as approved. I mean, there's no forgiveness. They can be checked at any time. If the services want to explore more, they can control it and everything as a whole. More important: While, to date, the contractor has submitted inaccurate measurements that were approved on his own, it has had no impact but only claims, it is now subject to strict sanctions that reach the discount. Therefore, we understand that a class goes into this matter. I ask: Are you suggesting that he pays the public and seeks his money years later, which he will never get? Do you think this provision is wrong? If so, then I think that, without you knowing it, you are against the public interest. The third major practical benefit we have with the bill is that we are creating greater flexibility. Here we are coming back to the big issue of private supervision, which has created quite substantial, I would say, and important controversy, which I personally have heard with great interest. What do many colleagues of the Opposition say? They say it's a mistake to measure private surveillance. Your government, however, and in our view rightly, had established something similar. And I'm explaining. The Government of Tsipras, with Minister Spiritzis, proceeded in 2019 to the adoption of Ms. 71/2019, which provided for the establishment of a register of enterprises, management advisers and project managers. I say it again: management and project management. SYRIZA therefore introduced the concept of entrustment and assistance from the private sector. In order not to play with words, not just in supervising the project - take care - but in managing the project. So you went out to the right on both the right, more liberal than the ones you blame us for neoliberals! But that's how you've always done it. That's how you created the superstition, so you'd tear the memorials. You were coming, you signed something you never believed, and you just didn't apply it. SYRIZA's constant tactic to remain in power. So our own regulation - because we do not throw it all out in the nuthouse - is that it does this: it applies the rules which you have adopted, and now you do not admit that you have adopted them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, please be indulgent. I have submitted to the Commission's minutes, the Presidential Decree, which if you have time to read it, leaves no doubt but there is no doubt that the first lesson in the management of the works by individuals was neither Mr Georgiadis nor Mr Mitsotakis nor groups, nor Mr Tsipras and Mr Spirtzis. This is because it is a good thing that things are said by their name. Let's clarify something. The management of the project has it, i.e. the public. Secondly, in parallel with the supervision of the project, the agency and the engineer, who is accountable to the service, is supervised by the agency. Thirdly, supervision - perhaps not enough - is only advisory and not decisive. Fourthly, private supervision is a possibility offered to the contractor. We don't force anyone in the Municipality of Sinticos, in Serres Law, who has two engineers in the technical service to oversee public works. We're giving it a chance. That means liberalism. I give you the choice, and you decide. I would also like to respond to the Change Movement, which I think has had a good stand on this matter. Mr Katrin, as Mr Kegeroglu said, we are talking about private engineer, accredited and approved in a special register, which will provide for transparent selection criteria, specific deadlines and strict sanctions. In reply to Mr Loverdos, I said that this idea, when we were opposition, and we discussed it with my dear colleague Mr Bukoro, came from your own reform, the building auditors. So you see, we're not dogmatic. We take the good things former governments do - little is the truth, not so much of the Change Movement, but of the SYRIZA - and try to implement them. We therefore place private individuals in the public service. We are not giving any public authority, but we are strengthening it. We strengthen the Head of Service by making assistants available, not only to his employees who, in many cases, do not have, but also to private engineers. Tell me honestly, is this a deterioration or upgrade? The management department is responsible for the checks up to now, the management department will also be responsible for the checks from now on. It will continue to monitor the course of implementation of the project, impose sanctions, take measures, except that we are strengthening its work. We're giving her another gun at her disposal. Let me say one more thing. Is that something new? Did we suddenly discover the wheel? No, of course not. The same procedure is followed in the supervision of PPP projects. And this kind of auctioning of works, you fought it, but after the big turn you made to SYRIZA in 2016 you adopted it. Didn't you mind there? The same people you say do well to the PPPs, but won't they do well in public works? Of course, the possibility of private supervision is not the only change we make. More generally, the new philosophy that we are adopting comes to hit the bureaucracy, comes to help and strengthen the speed and works in that direction. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - projects will now be carried out with greater transparency, greater efficiency, because transparency means the new declaratory system, which means that the contractor is being checked at any time. Transparency means making use of the private sector better and more controls. Transparency means explaining why you give a 60% discount. Transparency means entering a beginning, middle and end of the procedures I described you. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I do not share, but I understand some of the reactions that exist from SYRIZA to this bill. As I told you by opening up, it really would be a much braver attitude to vote in favour of it at first, as we did in 2016, and to vote against the articles on which you object. But we have another philosophy, and this is the big and serious conflict. We believe in the private sector and you blame us for being neoliberal. No, we're not neoliberal. Because at the same time, we are strengthening the supervisory role of the state. This is a reasoned practice used not only by centre-rights but also by social democratic parties across Europe. I therefore call on you to vote in favour, even at the last hour, at first instance, of this bill and to vote against the articles on which you object. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Constantine Bluchos has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mr. Vassilis Spanakis will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now after two Ministers, what could I possibly say? It is understood that it is not present, although in a sense everything has an ideal function, as the common denominator is the awkward opposition practice of a SYRIZA, which is engulfed by its diverse expression. Let me refer to Mr Tsipras's new ERASMUS a little bit obsolete and, on account of time, to his new ERASMUS. It described it as a revolution, a challenge to progressive governance, and of course, it is your values in practice. Well, in practice, we handed over a crashed RU, with no provision at all for the elementary, even for the individual during your governance. As in all, but especially in the field of welfare and health, you yourself claim the privilege of indivisible interconnection, such as, of course, democracy, progress, freedom and your agonizing effort to restrain developments and health, in the midst of a pandemic, have urged you to deposit the "new ESS". It is a proposal on the substance of the sloppy, disappointing, depressing. What did you propose? A new social contract with its employees, which you upgrade them to JSH colonies and brave funding of course, mass appointments, as if they were unqualified personnel. It is also a lack of expertise, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, you have proposed the legitimisation of his or her chronic diseases, which you or you ignore - I do not believe this because of the presence of people of the field, such as Mr Xanthos - but deliberately overtake them. By running insanely, apart from showing your panic, of course, you invest in plundering politics in the clear prospect that we are the ones with constant plundering. While you have now clearly demonstrated that you are dreaming of the ESS of pathogens and extremities, we are redefining its perspective, not based on contributory logic globes, but with sustainable alternatives, renovating its new dynamic and clear targeting. The new and revolutionary model for you is renovation and declining. A isotopic, impeccable, unreasonable, counterproductive model and, of course, - normally rather - non-quality. Finally, I should like to make a reference because the voices known about drugs and treatments have again been heard. I have to say that the special 'exploitation' of some people has also exceeded that limit of exaggeration. It is a Parliament, not a scientific forum, and some of us who have the relevant scientific knowledge, because of its relevance, we respect the space. Another scientific knowledge and documentation and other political unresolved chatter. Let's come to the present. To engage in four successive governments by building a municipal school in a capital city, where in the absence of a modern teaching instruction sooner or later there will be an absolute abandonment, or to engage in six governments by building a penitentiary store, which will function implying desolation, due to the prolonged and seductive unemployment of the inhabitants of the region, to seek the conditions for building a road connecting a Macedonian city and a bordering station with Ennaia, all of this often makes the operation of the Greek state, with due regard for non-productive and clearly inconsistent. These are all examples from my county. The current government was elected because it very soon with the election of its leader and current Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the party's leadership, it quickly captured our weaknesses. How are public works in Greece, not a painful story? Large projects are announced, ribbons are cut off and eventually, projects are implemented with delays in time, dramatic overruns of costs and sometimes with technical and other imperfections. I mean, awkwards. There are problems in contests, insufficient studies describing the projects, objections from candidate contractors who take years to resolve, problems with transparency, corruption and then limited supervision and control of how the project is being implemented. There are corresponding problems in both procurement and in whatever it takes to sign a contract between the State and a private body. I was born, as most of them here in the Chamber, without an airport "Eleftherios Venizelos", without Egnatia Street, without an integrated National Road of Athens-Thessaloniki without a Bridge of Rio-Antirio, without many works designed and carried out by political workers who breathed on the site, gave growth, practically made time perspectives. But what was it that led to a municipality’s commercial club appealing for decades to the Council of State not to carry out an approved study of an extension of the airport of Macedonia? Thessaloniki is the Greek example. Every major project of the co-chair is completed with such a slowdown, while the conditions for further update of the project have been created. We remind you of the rat chasing his tail as a country. How could this happen otherwise, when the application of public procurement law has to counteract the more general pathogens that characterise the Greek administrative system over time, such as the lack of long-term planning, bureaucracy and the undermining of many neuro-algal public services? All the ideological origins of our malfunctioning became clear in the discussions prior to the committee: Emmondial mythology about the capital contractor of a project, about the individual project supervisor and about ecological consciousness. Any private supervisor or contractor of a public project shall be an ex ante speculator. For the ideological origins of some, the wealth generated and the great monumental construction of public works are forbidden in whatever way their production is attempted. Any provision on the use of NATURA sites is a preamble to environmental crime! Concepts similar to the so-called economists of the regional Thessaloniki, who in the 1980s set their bodies in front of the Bulldoza, which would open the precious road. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I request your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. ‘Naphthalene’, ‘regression’ and ‘parentolagne’. Because it is not a proposal to sell ecological sensitivity in terms of a residential hut. Anything other than the cabin is, against some colleagues, a criminal cement. It's a conquest of maturity, freedom from illusions, if we ever collectively move on to it. A few good examples: Sprayers of great works, such as the diversion of Acheloos, such as Lake Kerkin, which is a barrier of Strimona, built on Venizelos, the Nestos lakes in the double dam in Drama. Hydrobiotopes were created from a river, which most of the time was unravelled. In other words, in the natural landscape, valuable and beneficial, in all respects, in contrast to the inertia and permanent denial, which is all but beneficial. Recent example of the disasters due to tree falling in the northern Athenian suburbs. The distorting picture with ecological consciousness planted the urban molotov, pine trees everywhere. Causes of an inconvenience in the summer, causes of falls and dissolution of the electrical network, as well as of properties in the gravitational system. Like there are no other trees. Any thought of cutting urban pine trees, however, can be a cause of war. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 law SYRIZA created and passed by us was not bad, it was incomplete, it was tested.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u224	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u225	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the present, signed by people who have worked closely, proposes changes necessary. With these changes, the legal framework can be made more effective and flexible and time-consuming procedures will get a way to unlock. However, there is something else, Mr Ministers. The major problem with human resources and culture in the administration structures of the state. The press, the lack of initiative, the climate of suspicion, the lack of expertise, evaluation and incentives in many services and bodies all have a direct impact on how public works are implemented in our country. No legislative framework can in itself override this barrier. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u226	Mr Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy, and then Mr Theodores Dritsas will be taken from SYRIZA. Immediately after Mr Dritsa I will give the floor to you, Mr Stylian, for the amendment. I would ask that the time be respected, because there are many colleagues still to speak. Mr. Spankee, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Development and Investment, a draft law which corresponds to the logic of the government. Because this New Democracy Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is the Government of works, it is the Government that comes to bring about reforms. Although we are in a period of serious health crisis, we do not stop legislating, we do not stop laying the foundations for Greece, which is worthy of our children. The draft law we are debating today attempts to reform the overall framework that we have received in relation to the public procurement procedure. Our aim, the government's aim, is to create an institutional framework of modern, efficient, free from endless bureaucracy, which prevents the completion of projects and, above all, attracting investment. An institutional framework for public works, whose main features will be efficiency, transparency and speed. After all, the institutions, the business world, professionals and chambers have also pointed out this. Everyone welcomed this effort by the Ministry of Development and Investment and they deserve congratulations to the Minister Adonis Georgiadis, and to the Deputy Minister Nikos Papathanassis. All operators stressed that the new law is flexible, functional, modernises the existing regulatory framework, clearly defines and transparent procedures and for all these reasons it will be effective and will bring about significant improvement. This draft law, which is divided into three parts, includes provisions on public procurement, procurement and works, provisions on public procurement in the fields of defence and security, as well as a series of arrangements of the Ministry of Development and Investment and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, including for the Competition Committee, the Technical Chamber, the Hellenic Development Bank and the Investment Bank, for building permits and much more. I shall refer to a few individual arrangements in Part Three, as they are notable, ladies and gentlemen. For example, the amendment of the Statute of the Greek Development Bank and the broadening of its purpose, making it the body implementing aid programmes through the enterprise subsidy. I have already heard a colleague from Opposition asking what the social dimension of this bill is, and I ask: does it not have a social dimension in a bill that has a programme to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises? We also have arrangements for the Chamber of Technical Chambers, which bring a clear framework for its organisation and operation, among them, the establishment of a GEMI service. We have arrangements for accessibility of disabled people to public buildings, while the Electronic Infrastructure Road Administration Agency is responsible for issuing a single pass card for disabled people from all toll stations. In addition, the obligation to digitalise the physical files of building permits shall be introduced no later than 31/12-2023 and to register them in the information system e-licensed by the competent authorities. An extension shall be granted to the suspension of auctions for natural and legal persons affected by the fires in July 2018. Under Article 223, small and medium-sized commercial enterprises are actually supported by the EIF's "e-Retail" programme and the duty-free, irrevocable and irreversible aid paid is introduced. With this programme, small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to operate electronically, which until now is quite difficult. For the basic body of the bill, which are the provisions on public procurement, I shall refer briefly to some important regulations that are introduced, because they are about 100 articles. What constitutes the substance of the legislation is a radical change in the landscape of public procurement and works, with a view to the effective development and completion of important projects within the planned timescales. I think that the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, who deserves congratulations on the incision he brings to the public procurement with regard to his ministry, gave detailed answers to what was set out by the Civic Opposition. This draft law upgrades the operation and electronic platform services of the National Electronic Procurement System and extends the obligation for contracting authorities and economic operators to use electronic tools in all procurement procedures with an estimated value of more than EUR 30,000, instead of over EUR 60,000, which is currently in place. It is necessary to maintain and update an electronic procurement file at the EIAD where the award procedure is carried out through the EIAD. The possibility of a competitive procedure for the award of a project and before the completion of the environmental authorisation necessary for the execution of the project is introduced, provided that, of course, the approved environmental conditions do not substantially alter the object of the project. This is important because in many cases, we have had great delays in the conclusion of contracts from environmental studies. Article 30 provides that the most economically advantageous tender at the discretion of the contracting authority is to be determined by means of a cost-effective approach, which also contributes to ensuring the quality of the project. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, for one minute your tolerance. Very important, too, is the issue of unusually low tenders, which is dealt with in today's bill, as it is precisely defined which are regarded as such and of course we are introducing the justification. The establishment of the register of supervised engineers for projects of EUR 60,000 and less than EUR 1 million and the possibility of supervision being exercised, except for the service and a certified private operator. Of course today, apart from the draft law, we also have ministerial amendments - very important amendments - such as the granting of AMCAs for vaccinations to older people or our fellow people suffering from chronic diseases. We also have arrangements for the elections in the chambers, which go until 15-12-2022. Mr President, I too have tabled an amendment entitled 'Evaluating the incentive to tax exemption on investment projects subject to the aid schemes of L.4399/2016'. Because the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, and the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Nikos Papathanases, are people on the market, they are people who listen to the market, people who want to put an end to malfunctioning and bureaucracy, I invite them to accept this amendment. Or, if they cannot accept this amendment, which I invite them to accept today, to commit that this provision will be accepted. What am I asking for with this amendment? I call for the tax exemption, the tax incentives also apply to those enterprises that, while they have submitted a certification request in 2020 and the certification by the competent body has not been completed by 31-12-2020, if it is completed within the six months, that is to say, until the sixth month of 2021, they may also have the tax incentives laid down in the relevant law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u228	Close, Mr. Spankee. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u229	I'm closing, Mr. President. Thus, the liquidity of companies that invest in Greece will be strengthened. We are sending out a message that if you invest in that country, the state rewards you, because that is the essence of a tax law that also involves tax incentives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, too. Mr Dritsa from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u232	If you want, you can take the mask off so you can sound better. When you're in Stepma, you can take the mask off if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u233	No, I'd rather have it. I always do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u234	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. Mr President, I was written to speak in this bill, which is very important for defence, and I have been here since this morning because I have been one of the first speakers. I have, however, asked for the floor, and because I want to talk about what has been made of me as a protagonist for a day and a day and I hope not a protagonist of other negative situations. I would like to refer to this, and I would therefore like you, Mr President, to take the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware of it and have experienced it from my youth that political competition is inexcusable with many - many blows under the table. I've resisted all my life in this human-food reality, and I have refused to give up. I've often paid it dearly. I'm not sorry. I'm not gonna change. That's how I was, so I'm gonna be while I'm still alive. With this starting point I come to my very special speech before the House and through the Step of the House, before the Greeks and Greek citizens, who are watching. I have to answer the literal meaning of the word and explain and restore. I will not go into this at all, except at this point, to the honourable Mrs Dora Bakoyannis. I am not going to mention either her article in 'News' or her morning presence in SCAI. Mrs Bakoyannis has wronged - not only Mrs Bakoyannis - and the President of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance and the Party as a whole, but, of course, I personally as a human, moral and political status. I am responsible for the fact that I did not have my word to be quite clear, as far as the circumstances were concerned, and that there would be no room for double and triple readings and interpretations. That responsibility, yes, I have it. I was more relaxed than I had to, with a confidence in our city radio station, to which I was invited to give the interview. I'm a Pieriot. We consider the channel as the Piraeusians in general and always come with good will and faith. I'm taking that responsibility. I have already taken her on from the first moment and for this reason, but not so much for that, but above all because I fully respect Mrs Bakoyannis for what she has experienced on her personal and political path and for what is important to her as a person, within this route. Because of this sincere respect, I will not confront her, I will raise other issues, and only myself and my dignity, I will also defend the true truth of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, all these days with the case of the barbecue hunger strike, the Kufundina prisoner, my political area, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, and I personally have come with two agony. One is that this human life should not be lost, such as every human life, and the second is that the political system should not be further poisoned on matters that are not crucial and that are not what needs to be resolved for the benefit of the entire Greek people. Political contradictions must emerge elsewhere and not there, and human life must be saved. I didn't just say it, SYRIZA didn't just say it. Everyone said so and in Parliament, most of the parties and intellectuals of international prestige and the Unions of Human Rights. The constitutionalist of the National Kapodistrian University, Mr. Spyros Vlachopoulou, has said so, speaking of the absolute right to protection of life, as a constitutional check, which prevails over any other argument. Mr. Kontiadis said so. Mr. Tasopoulos said it. Mr Javarras, Member of the New Democracy and eminent executive, said so very well. The law-abiding lawyer, Mr. Theme Sophie, told them. Too many people have said it all the time in the most serious and responsible way. The government does not hear - it is a wonder that he does not listen - in the name of the power of the state that is not blackmailed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely why, when I was asked last week by the publisher of the newspaper "TO ABOUT" Mr Kouris, to write an article of my own choice, I chose this. I have written in a brief note that the rule of law must now point to its existence. No true rule of law can claim to feel blackmailed by any request - claim. For every claim is made in the constitutional provisions of the rule of law. When the opposite happens, something is wrong with the state itself and with the government that runs it. A state that feels blackmail is not a democratic state. Below I say that no value of our culture can be made more prosperous than the value of human life. After all, the authenticity of the rule of law goes far beyond the concept of a just state. The rule of law is what limits itself and controls its inherent authoritarianism. I have written that the only solid and reliable basis for defending the rule of law and for the real content of liberal and fair political and social democracy is that. This is where human life is at stake. In this major risk he cannot infiltrate any yokes, as to the seriousness of the guilt and crime of the convicted. The guilt has been judged, lastingly and irrevocably. Another issue is now judged: life. I hope that it is a common place for political opposition - as if I had anticipated - and competition in our country that the highest democratic bravery of all of us is judged when it comes to opponents and enemies. For friends, it's an easy case and an inexpensive one. These are my views, ladies and gentlemen, and they are not present. They've been long since I was young. I have participated in hundreds of demonstrations, rallys, gatherings, many of these turbulent, several times in the front line. I didn't pick up a carpet ever to throw it and force it. This is the tradition of the Left that I served for years in various ways, both extra-parliamentary and institutional. This is my route. It's not an individual case. It's collective. I have never accepted, nor am I nor any of us, that one can entrust oneself, in the name of any idea to become a punisher and executioner of one or another. These are my principles. These are our principles. Is that really my agony not to be done again on the occasion of '17 November' what happened when she was in her fort and the political system was poisoning, even to the point of being accused of who? The President then of PASOK Andreas Papandreou, as leader of "17 November", and Pericles Korovesis, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u237	I shall finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u238	I understand the need to have some fun, but you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u239	I shall conclude, Mr President. Nowadays, there is a comment published in a newspaper, in a quote from Mr. Papachela's book about the life of Constantine Mitsotakis, where he appears to say - I have not seen it - "I am convinced that behind 17 November" was the hard PASOK." Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not put all these matters back in this story? It is precisely what I said in my interview, with these objectives, that I clearly said so with ambiguity, that I admit it. But that's what I said. That is what I wanted to say, and I said that no one has been terrified since 17 November. How was that translated? It was translated that “17 November” had not terrified anyone. I heard it in the ERT news report yesterday. I've heard it all day in the announcements of all parties. Is that the same? I said that terrorism in Greece did not pass. In Italy, ladies and gentlemen, it has reached the limits of the civil war. In Greece it didn't pass. That's what I said. Don't regenerate it. That was my answer through vacation, pressures and all that. And I made it that way. If one reads the whole and takes into consideration without prejudice what I'm saying to you, he'll very well understand what I said. Then the saliva broke out. I immediately made an announcement to rehabilitate immediately. He's gone missing. Last night, from morning to night, I was on five TV stations that called me. I have no relationships with myself to challenge my TV presentations. I went out on three radio stations. I explained it all. They've been ignored, too, absolutely. Are we going to get another one of these? That is why the announcement issued by the SYRIZA Press Office, which says that it was unfortunate - because it was unfortunate, I have explained it to you - and they do not express either SYRIZA or the one that I have said. That's right, it's cleared, no spins that we have nothing to do with all this. On the other hand, we are on the other side, not to heroize anyone, not to dramatize situations, not to plunder the climate. Respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u240	Finish, Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u241	I'm done, Mr. President. The moments are very critical. We cannot, in the name of political competition, go beyond the limits. Greek society has paid this too many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, too. The Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u243	Thank you. I want to be very honest, Mr President. Mr. Dritsas is a decent and noble colleague. Consequently, the strong political criticism we were obliged to make in his statements also had a form of regret for the person, for Mr Dricassas himself. What you said about Mrs Dora Bakoyannis and the way you dealt with her just now shows respect and honor. After all, today's article by Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Chakalote, also solves yesterday's disagreement on how you misinterpreted Mrs Bakoyannis. I have to tell you, however, my dear fellow Member, which is a political problem, whether now that these unfortunate, as you admitted, made statements that created all this tension, they also allowed SYRIZA to understand where he was wrong. I am also taking the SYRIZA President's stand today as a big step behind SYRIZA in this story. And that will be a victory for democracy. We have a barbecue, a convicted killer, a terrorist, who decides to make a hunger strike for a right, which he thinks has been imprisoned and imprisoned. We say from the first moment, that instead of having a hunger strike, Koufantinas could turn to Greek justice and examine his request. If he's right, he'll be right, if he's wrong, he won't be vindicated. What's the hunger strike for? He decided, through his lawyer, not to go to court, but to start this hunger strike and to start the whole group of friends of terrorism in Greece - I am referring to those who each night break shops, burn cars, go to the Painter's, check on cars, threaten policemen, all this extreme left group - for several days to destroy public and private property and directly threaten democracy with the known banners "We've been born November 17th". So, what's the Koufantinas doing? It says: if my request is not accepted as I want it, my army will burn Greece. That's what he says. And what does SYRIZA and part of the Change Movement say? The Change Movement, more carefully. But let's just stick to the point that matters. How's SYRIZA? He says that Kufontina's request should be accepted, even if it is illegal, even if he is trespassing the rule of law. That's what SYRIZA says. Why? It says that no human life is lost. Listen to the reasoning of the decision today by the court in Lamia, where he unanimously rejected his request to suspend the sentence. Listen, Mr. Comrade, Mr. Dritsa, what the court says, not Georgiadis or New Democracy: "The treatment of his serious illness can be done through medical assistance offered to him. It is the applicant who makes it conditional on the suspension of the validity of the sentence to receive medical assistance. The Court considers that his stay in the hospital is not an discrimination and unanimously rejects his claim.’ Now listen to the reason why Mrs Kurtovik said that the rule of law must back off the request of the spoiled Kufontina: 'For reasons of security of the state, of the country and of the public order. We have a major issue in public order. We will be in a situation of threat to social peace and cohesion." Look, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what Mrs Kurtovik tells us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u244	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u245	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u246	It is not Mrs Kurtovik's intention to save a human life, which you and the other tears have said, but which is directly threatening democracy! It says that if democracy does not retreat, we will have a major issue of social and national cohesion and order and everything else. I ask, frankly, Mr Dritsa: do you have been a Member of the Greek Parliament for so many years, any Kurtovic and any Kufontina who threatens Greek democracy in this way? In conclusion, Mr President, I shall say something so that I do not abuse time. You referred to Alexis Papachela's book and his late Constantine Mitsotakis, in order to fail the argument that, in the past, they blamed Andreas, now blame us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u247	I've lived through them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u248	They're locations. None of you interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u249	Listen, Mr. Dritsa. And now with what I'm about to say again, I'm going to be sad, but I can't help it. You have co-existed with Panos Kammenos. Panos Kammenos named in his book as a member of "17 November" Tasia Christododoulopoulos, your symphony. Didn't you feel for four and a half years the need to get up and leave the man who was thus exulting your family? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now you remember Constantine Mitsotakis and Alexis Papachela? It's late for tears, Mr. Dritsa, since you colluded with Panos Kammenos. It's too late, that's what you had to think about before. So leave the hypocrisy. None of us, Mr President, wants Koufontinas to die, and none of us want to die. It's just that we don't want him to die, but to accept that every Kufontina will blackmail us. Today is Koufantinas, tomorrow Michaloliakos, the day after tomorrow, Rubaias, anticipate the Xiros, and I don't know who else. Anyone in Greece who thinks that his rights are being violated will go like all Greek citizens in Greek justice and accept her decision, as we all accept it. The times that Dimitris Koufantinis was favorably treated and changed the laws of the state - along with Mr Lambros, your political committee, according to the complaints made by the former Minister of Public Order of SYRIZA Mr Panousis - gentlemen, have passed. Now we have rule of law and equality. I wish Kufontina would go to court if he is right to be justified and if he is wrong not to be vindicated. So the rule of law will prevail, not the whim of a spoiled terrorist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u252	Wait a minute. Mr. Dritsas made an explanation for some of the things he said, a statement of soul, if you would like. The Minister answered, not in a personal tone, but in saying his own views. I think we should stop the debate here. It's the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u253	My family spoke by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u254	Please, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Kegeroglu, I cannot give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u257	As a parliamentary representative, I ask why and you do not give me any reason? I have time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u258	But you're not a parliamentary representative. It's Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u259	You're wrong. Keep it up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u260	I don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u261	You're wrong. Keep it up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u262	I see here that Mr Scandalides is a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. The spokesman for the Change Movement has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u263	So I say to you that 15 minutes ago I replaced Mr Scandalidis, because I sign it as a secretary. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u264	Wait a minute, Mr Kegeroglu, let us clarify this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, if this is not on personal grounds, then what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u267	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u268	Wait a minute. Mr. Dritsa, this conversation won't stop. I think you've been modestly talking about it. It may be the voice of the Minister a little loud, but he has not exceeded the measure in order to hurt anyone. It's just his voice's style, but I think it was clear and modest. I think it's wrong to continue such conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u269	He's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u270	Wait a minute, Mr. Brutsi. We don't have official papers for Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u271	I make the statement and you tell me I'm not? If your telework doesn't work, it's not my fault. I, as a secretary, tell you by living.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Kegeroglu, please listen to me. I have no reason to question you, although the Bureau has not been informed. I'll give you the floor for two minutes to make an intervention. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, there is the process of electronic replacement. If the system doesn't work, we can fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Kegeroglu, I know you're a straight man and a honest man. I'm not questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u275	But I'm the replacement. No one else does it. So it is done by reason too. I want to tell you one more thing. In any case, a statement is made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u276	I told you you had the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u277	I think that when a debate is held after an unfortunate or wrong statement has been taken, we should not interfere with other issues that have been historically decided. Historically it has been decided that slander Kammenos, infrequent from the right-wing incense, embraced brother-in-law of the Left and Syriza, was a slander for Andreas Papandreou and for Andriko Papandreou for CDS. Recently convicted of that. So it is neither elegant nor morally permissible to withdraw historically hidden cases, to justify our own mistakes. I recognise that a change has taken place from Mr. Dritsa to the unacceptable completely inadmissible statement as presented by the clarifications he has given. So that's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u278	Well, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u279	Well, it's unacceptable. How do we do it? That doesn't change. I said 'as presented'. It's your thing. Send a lawsuit to those who presented it like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u280	It's not her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u281	As it is unacceptable to confuse in an indirect way - the Minister for Development is well aware of the communication - our own clear position on the issue with the blurredness of SYRIZA. No relationship. He's not really responding. He's good at communication and propaganda in the sense of communication, but not to us. It's not working, Dear Minister of Development. Clearly I say that our position is that democracy is not blackmailed. It has all institutional functions to solve issues. The position is clear. Whether or not the Secretary's excuse was said that because of a coronary he was not taking him was more than unfortunate - that if he was - it does not change, it is a reality. You have to admit it. Others what the law said and what Mrs Nicholas did. Please admit, then, that your handling has also put his hand in having footprints to speak. But the institutional processes of democracy exist, and on that basis the state, and justice, and of course the prisoner, must function. The prisoner who does not change his status as a convicted and heinous terrorist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u283	For two minutes, the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has been speaking. Mr. Dritsa, I'll give you the floor right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u284	After Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall be brief, as I am sure it is, in order to restore the truth, Mr President, to you - as the Minister has again tended to be brutally offended by Mr Georgiadis. Because we haven't eaten lotus, I have to tell him a few things, which I imagine you know best than me, Minister. You say that he blackmails your government by committing suicide, while your government is being murdered, and you argue that it does not go, as all of us do, on the legal path. Because your government has banned him from doing so since no decision has ever been notified to him, as Mrs Kurtovik has denounced for ten days. No decision notified to him, no decision. And as you know, if you don't have a decision that is sealed by justice, you can't appeal to any court. In fact, this prisoner had no opportunity to bring an action against the injustices suffered. I repeat to avoid misunderstandings, I would claim the same thing, any other prisoner, whether or not he was in the position of Mr Koufontina. Do you have anything to say about that, Minister? I'm lying? Isn't that right? Did you give him the possibility of having a case in court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor. I would ask you for two minutes to clarify what you have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. What I have to say is that, once again, the Minister, and by representing the government, does not want to hear and prefer the tension and the creation of a large conflict climate. Let them take their responsibilities. The second is that Panos Kammenos wrote and said what he said at the time, as a prominent member of the then New Democracy, and he did not just say so. Of course, neither is Mrs Christodoulopoulos to be accused of anything nor anyone, because she did not just say that name, she said too much. The question is, will you now embrace these teratologies that Panos Kammenos said against SYRIZA? Because that's what this is about. I shall conclude, Mr President. I had a great flaw in my accountability, and I have to fill it out. Do me a favor. I was accused of insulting the dead, saying they were right. Mr President, I do not think - for years, not now, of insulting all the dead. Evidently, Paul Bakoyannis, Axarlian is a separate case, but I'm talking about everyone because I explained what my relationship with human life is and how I honor it and I don't negotiate it for anyone. But I said nothing more than what Mr Mitsotakis, the ministers, yesterday Mr Brutsis, said many times all the members of the New Democracy say: 'our prolongation has paid a heavy blood tax since November 17'. That is why I said to explain that I accept and acknowledge, and respect, rage, hatred, indignation, even a feeling of revenge from relatives, friends, partition itself, but not such feelings and behaviour by the state and the government. That was my position, Mr President. Is this an insult to the victims of 17 November? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u288	You've become clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u290	The Minister has the floor. Please in low tones, as before, with moderateness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u291	Thank you for your suggestions, Mr President. It's interesting to talk about styles. Mr Dritsa, my style was, as has been pointed out by the Chair, extremely modest and with great respect for you personally - I am sorry you did not understand - even though your statement, in order not to be misunderstood, was outrageous. But you have given your explanations - I do not want to be a judge - and these are judged by the Greek people. My reference to Panos Kammenos and his book did not make it because I accept what Panos Kammenos writes in his book. Obviously, I don't accept them. My report was made for two reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u292	But you hate them. You copy them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u293	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u294	Don't interrupt me. I said I won't accept it. But I mentioned it for two reasons. Listen, don't get upset. The first reason is why you referred to books of the past. If you want to find books of the past on this subject, you can't pull them out selectively. You're gonna pull it all out, and then Kammenos comes in. Secondly, precisely because I consider you a decent man, I want to be honest with you. The fact that you agreed to sit on the same cabinet with a man who called your wife a 'terrorist', I admit that it was something that always knew me very much. I wouldn't sit down. Now with regard to Mr Gregoriadis: Listen, Mr Gregoryiadis, to want to swallow Kufantina's argument without any examination, to play philanthropist and radical is his right. To come to the Greek Parliament, however, and to show that it is completely ignorant of how our judiciary works, it is almost embarrassing. Why, what did you say? What did Mrs. Kurtovik say at the beginning, when she's not saying it anymore? That he was allegedly denied the right of Kufontina to go to court because he had not been served by the documents, which should have been insulted by him, although Mrs Nicholas has demonstrated that he had been served by him since the beginning of January. I accept a priori that she had not given it to him, that Mrs Kurtovik is right. You'll ask a simple lawyer - you're an actor and you don't know - that if he doesn't give you a service, a document that you need to exercise your legitimate rights, go to a prosecutor, get an attorney's order in the same minute - he doesn't make over seven - eight minutes to write it to you - and go with the prosecutor's order and get it. Because if that's not the case, it's a self-righteous criminal offence. Therefore, the excuse "didn't give me the papers" is to believe only Claus Gregoriadis, no one else in Greece. It is, in other words, a heavenless nonsense, the second one which is heard today in the Chamber after Yiannis' morning with a 'n'. So please do not trespass any sense of reason. Mrs Kurtovik did not resort to justice for the reasons I was saying yesterday and I read from her announcement, because they wanted to blackmail the state and revolutionary gymnastics. Now they see the government is unresolved. Now they realize that the Greek public is unresolved. Now they realize that the only ones left are the assholes that break and burn. Especially today - to say this - I imagine they would see SYRIZA's naughty retreat and an absolute SYRIZA turn on this issue, a pleasant turn, a pleasant retreat, welcomed by us. It's good that SYRIZA ceases to support Koufantina in the House. That means that they will go to justice, as they have already done, from what I read, at Lamia Court, and that will judge whether everything he says is true or false. I'm not involved in the decision. I'll tell the court.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u296	Please. We're not doing that now. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u298	He talked badly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u299	It can't be done. We have a bill to finish. It clarifies, it's not an attack. Let it finish. Please. I don't see any personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u300	But I'm not done. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u301	Come on, let's get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Kegeroglu, so we don't have any misunderstandings between us. I'm the last person in the Chamber who would match the PASOK, the Change Movement today, and the last person who would match you with SYRIZA. We've been together in the same government. I also consider you as a good minister to the government we have been. We have played together to stay Greece in the euro. I don't think you're the same as SYRIZA. I'll make it clear. However, if you want a reliable opinion, you should have shown faster reflexes here. Some of your executives, like Mr. Loverdos...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u303	The coroner's pseudology?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u304	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u305	...or like Mr. Katrinis - so as not to blame - they showed faster reflexes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u306	Will you say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Kegeroglu, is that what we're going to do now? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u308	Coronary pseudology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u309	But I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u310	He didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u311	I demand that you give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u312	There's no staff, Mr. Gregoriadis. He gave some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u313	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u314	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u315	I'm not accepting a friend's provocative...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u316	Come on, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Gregriadis, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u319	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u320	I demand it. It's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u321	Wait a minute. Tell us what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u322	It's not personal. It's abusive. I've been devoured by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u323	What did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u324	He said I said skyshit. Does that sound good to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u325	How'd he put it out?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u326	He said that I'm the only person on the ground who believes what Mrs. Kurtovic says. On the contrary, I assure you he's out of the morning five to six thousand, who also believe it. We'll be here, Mr. Georgiadis. For the legality that you want to catalyse, you will find us permanently in front of you whether it is Rupaiki or Koufantina, whether it is Kashiri or Michaloliakos. You will have democracy, you want - you do not want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u327	If Mr Georgiadis has said the word 'bourdes', we will erase it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u328	... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u329	If you said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u330	Also, Mr. Georgiadis, you accused me before...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u331	He didn't tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u332	He blamed me. You weren't here before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u333	I did not understand that, Mr Gregoryides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u334	He accused me of allegedly covering Mr. Lignade. I would like to say to you, Mr. Georgiades, that a man on your side with his last name Georgiadis cannot blame anyone else for covering up the issue of paedophilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Gregoriadis, since he didn't say that word, why do you insist? Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u336	The last name of Georgiadis is very much on your side. Remember that. It's a sign, but you have another Georgiade. You cover up and not us. I wasn't a minister. I didn't put Lignade in the National. You put him in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u337	Well, to end this, we must not forget that Constantine Karamanlis restored democracy in the country and we must all serve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u338	The people restored it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u339	You must not forget that in the rule of law, when the law conflicts with politics, the law always wins. We're on. Mr Stylis has the floor for three minutes to develop the amendment under a general number 785 and a special 54. Come on, Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to refer to an amendment that we have tabled, which concerns people from our country's fellow citizens, citizens who are in our home country, but who do not have AMCAs or who do not have PAYPAs, the Temporary Health Care Insurance Number for Allanders. So why does this amendment come for this category? For, while they are entitled, according to the National Committee for Vaccines, to make the vaccine in the country, they do not have the AMKA or PAYPA, and that is why they cannot participate in the vaccination process. Therefore, in order to close this category of fellow people on a date and obtain the certificate of vaccination, we take the legislative initiative to establish a temporary AMDDA, which they will use with the sole aim of making the vaccine and at the end of their confirmation. The application for AMKA staff will be made from the public portal, the well known e - gov.gr. Identifying is done through interoperability with the files that have public bodies in our country, such as the Police file on IDs or the IDU by the IDU or a number of other public bodies from their bases. And this identification is achieved through interoperability, made by the Centre for the Interoperability of the General Secretariat of Information Systems and Public Administration, in accordance with Article 84 of the Act. Regulation (EEC) No 4727/2020. For those who cannot, in this case, receive the temporary MMF, they are given the opportunity to submit a summary report, where they will be applicants. A Committee of the Ministry of Health, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 57 of Law 4764/2020 or a subcommittee of the Ministry of Health will examine whether they fulfil the conditions for receiving AMCA and may then, at the request of the JEPs, establish the vaccine. Finally, the Ministers for Labour and Social Security, Health, Migration and the Minister for Digital Governance are authorised, for certain categories of citizens, which we cannot include in this regulation, to allow them to apply, to participate in vaccination. This concerns this amendment, and we call for it to be supported by the whole of Parliament's parties, in order to achieve the immunity that we all want in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Mr Rapti, for three minutes, on the amendment. Then, Minister, prepare for legislative improvements. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u342	It concerns, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 of the Amendment No 785/54 to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and, in particular, the regulation is the framework for national vaccination campaigns within which, on the basis of the relevant recommendation of the National Committee for Vaccines, there is a prioritisation of the population groups to be vaccinated. Vaccination is normally carried out but to achieve this objective, the replacement of Article 58 of Law 4764/2020 is required to provide for the vaccination of all structures and treatment facilities which have long been suffering and vulnerable population groups. In other words, there is a need for a legislative provision providing for the EGE's competence to go ahead with the vaccination of supervised bodies and structures within the framework of the national vaccination campaign, namely the structures and the healing of ills, the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the mental health units referred to in Articles 4 and 11 of Law 2716/1999. As far as population groups are concerned, the regulation concerns those resident on the one hand in the above structures, the medical and other personnel of the mental health establishments and the medical staff of the EGE. It is therefore necessary to add this addition to the immediate effect of the EGE on such vaccinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Georgiadis, please, legal improvements, and if you want to develop some, or we'll take a photocopy of them and split them out for an economy of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u344	They have no special reason to develop them. It is more grammaral improvements, but - I say it to colleagues - that the recasting of Articles 189 and 190 should be noticed. The recast has been made as to how we agreed on them between the Chambers and the Technical Chamber. As you recall, there had been a disagreement between the institutions on this matter. We have come to a wording, which is a common consensus, so that there is no concern. So I'm going to testify to them to read them. I would like to inform the House that I will accept the amendment in general, pursuant to Rule 786 and Article 55 4.3.2021 tabled by Mr Bukouros on the subject: 'Reforming and amending paragraph 1 of No 4067/2012'. This amendment, Mr President, is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u345	So it's from the parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no. I'll report them again. I have accepted, firstly, the amendment with a general number of 772 and a specialist No 41/1-32021 by Mr Simos Kedicoglou. She's accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u347	Minister in here, I didn't order. I've been looking for her. He only has a explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u348	No, he's got the device right underneath. I'll get it for you now. I have accepted the parliamentary amendment No 779/3-2021 by Mr Athanasios Pleri 'Liberation of Chambers'. We are now accepting the amendment by a general number of 786 and a specialist from Mr Bukokouros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u349	I mean, Minister, so that there are no mistakes, three amendments, right? The 772 numbers, the 779 and the 786?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u350	Yes, Mr President, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much. We're entering the chatter circle via webex. The first is Mr. George Karasmanis from New Democracy and then prepare Mr. Dionyssis Kalamatianos from SYRIZA. Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a reform bill, which offers solutions to chronic problems in the award and construction of public works, as well as to public procurement and procurement. In other words, it is an investment bill and certainly a development plan, in fact an unprecedented pandemic, which inevitably creates a recession. It will therefore make a decisive contribution to boosting the economy. I attended the meetings of the committees where a genuine democratic dialogue took place. The heads of the co-legislative ministries have listened to all the views and suggestions of both the parliamentarians and the thirty involved, of which many have been heard and brought many legislative improvements, even with the withdrawal of articles. In particular, it was particularly positive that a consensus was reached on the part of the bill on the supplies of the Armed Forces and armaments and expenditure, which our Government targeted four times, in support of the country's defence shield. The Minister of National Defence has developed this issue in detail and I do not need to be extended. I consider it very important that they agreed to extend the publications in the regional and local press by the end of 2023, a proposal which the rapporteur and I strongly supported in the committees with the work that is being proclaimed and carried out. In view of the special role played by regional bodies in public control, the fight against arbitrary behaviour and, of course, in informing the citizen, who is the real owner of public works. There was a strong disagreement from the point of view of Officer Responsibility on environmental issues, with which colleagues show a certain interest and a selective memory. Because they are forgetting that the revision of the Constitution did not vote on the proposal by Mr Mitsotakis for the revision of Article 24, for the protection of the dramatic consequences of climate change, that is, the greatest threat facing our country and the whole world in the medium term. As other serious proposals have not been passed as additions to more general and more effective environmental protection. Nor should they forget that, as a government, they had four and a half years to manage Community programmes of EUR 226 million for actions to shield and improve our forest wealth and by extension of the environment. They began to sprinkle in Brussels, and our own government had to come to launch them. Ladies and gentlemen, a very important innovation for public works is the study - construction system, which will speed up the procedures for the development of projects. As I have pointed out to the committee, the preparation of studies and the competitive procedures need a longer period of time than the implementation of the project. The contractor will therefore also have part of the responsibility by the end of the final studies. I also consider it very important that the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure accepted the proposal of the President of the Chamber of Geographical Affairs, which I, from the first moment, have supported to the committee the auditors of engineers including geotechnics, geotechnologists, forestry scientists as well as participating in the project committees. This is how the brakes go into intentions and outrageous methods, which, with the current problematic legislative framework, have led to situations such as the ones we have experienced for projects that began with the first ESDP. And we're in third. A clear example of such situations is the Almopei dam in Pella, a project of enormous importance for the whole of central Macedonia and multiple utility for the economy in general. Here's the kitten of prolongations and postponements has gone beyond any precedent. The decision to approve environmental... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...it came to us after 15 years that another study should have been carried out... (it does not sound because of a bad connection)... a few hundred meters, thus not including the project in the decision of the twenty-nine dams that were included before the 2019 elections and, above, an extension of the designer until the end of September 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to demonstrate, beyond doubt, its pitifulness to date, and to understand all the misery that this system has suffered, I should like to refer to another clear case again in my own prefecture. The road...(it doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...Yannitson - Edessa, a project for which then Minister George Soufflias had officially committed himself to starting in 2010, as his successors at the Ministry talked about the maturity of the project, but on the stay of the 2012 elections, just so that there is no room for a copy, the successors of Mr Soufflias, 2010-2012, who committed to the Parliament on the maturity of the project... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection).... 120 million of its funding in the Western Region of Thessaloniki. While for four and a half years of the previous government in 2015-2019 the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure was hiding and not answering questions... (it doesn't sound because of a bad connection)... our government and the current Minister Kostas Karamanlis again had to come to Parliament to characterise the work of special importance for the country's economy and integrate it... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)... of the Force Expropriations Code so that it can be put into effect. Furthermore, the bill introduces the institution of private supervision of studies and projects, which will help the subordinated municipalities and other bodies, to be able to use from an approved register certified private engineers for supervision at transparent selection criteria. There are remarkable scientists in the market, in the Greek society that can accomplish this work perfectly. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the bill we are to vote on puts an end to all this vicious method of manipulation, which was under the previous legislative framework, to date. Amongst this new, transparent framework, which is pushing the whole country forward, we in our aesthetic prefecture can now hope and hope to take the road to the implementation of the two projects I mentioned as examples, the Almopeaus Dam and the Giannitsas Road Axis, given that the Prime Minister himself has described them as the first priority. Thank you, Mr President, for the time and thank you to everyone who has listened to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr. Karasmani. SYRIZA has the floor now, Mr. Dionissis Kalamatianos, and then Mr. Athanasios Davakis from New Democracy is prepared. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking for the second day of the bill on public procurement, and the whole country is now in the red and deep red pandemic. The ESS is in critical condition, the intensive treatment units in Attica are in completeness, almost 100%. Yesterday's reports on stricter measures show once again that the government has a huge failure in the management of the health crisis. Continue imposing lockdown within the lockdown for four months. You consider it a smart measure to limit travel to up to two kilometers, but you had described the money as lost for more intensive treatment units. Your policy proves to be stones and bricks and woods and horns steadfastly sprinkled. Before I refer to the main points of the bill, I will make a brief reference to what the SYRIZA government has done, because there have been some reports before. Under Law 4412/2016, an integrated legislative framework was established for all types of contracts, works, studies, services and supplies, and the European rules were incorporated. This is how pluralism, systematic divisions and legal insecurity have been addressed. Electronic means of public procurement have been promoted and procedures have been simplified, competition has been strengthened, participation by small and medium-sized enterprises has been facilitated. For the first time, the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts has been implemented and used as a unique system of disclosure of data. All this has led to a reduction in expenditure since 2017 of 19%, in relation to the amounts allocated, for all public tenders worth over EUR 60,000. The bill we are debating today is allegedly an attempt to speed up the implementation of public works. In fact, however, it is persevered by the Government's obsessions of conferring powers on private individuals. With your proposals, Minister, you do not strengthen public administration, but you lead it to paralysis. You create conditions of opacity and dispersal of public money. You do this while the recovery fund and the new NSRF is being managed. For a year now, under conditions of pandemic, you have been served on a recital by direct awards. Everyone knows that this process is not characterised by ensuring maximum transparency and dealing with corruption. This procedure should be derogated from it. But you've consolidated it as normality. Now you come and legislate the brave increase in the sums that can be given in this way. In particular, you increase the limits of direct awards from 20,000 to 60,000 euros for works contracts. So over-increase the amounts, without putting additional security controls in order to avoid abuse. At the same time, you are increasing the threshold for which there is no need to make public contracts from EUR 1 000 to EUR 2,500. Do you really think that in such a way you are protecting the public interest against cases of corruption and the destruction of public funds? I don't think so. While you are creating such conditions with your bill, you are privatising part of the area of the management of public works in the country. You are transferring the supervision of public works to private individuals. You know that by such arrangements you reduce the public's ability to control the final deliverable. At the same time, you do not guarantee transparency and you do nothing to avoid a conflict of interest. Without the systematic presence of public engineers in the audited projects, no control over the private auditor will be exercised. It is also obvious that issues arise when the individual overseeing the project, it will be rewarded by the contract, the execution of which it supervises. You know that when a flat-rate fee is paid there is a risk that the private will adopt a reasonable minor effort. You know that if the remuneration is given on the basis of the progress of the project, there is a risk that the private person will close the project in a rough way to get paid. You know that if all of this happens, the consequences for the quality of the project may be disastrous. Nevertheless, you are progressing unsuccessful in your plan. The answer to subsistence of public services cannot be amputation. In nineteen months you've hired over two and a half thousand special guards. But you do not want to hire doctors, nurses, teachers and workers in technical services. These public functions you want to give them to individuals. It is clear what you are pursuing and what you are doing. At the same time, with all this, you facilitate large construction companies, reintroduce the provision for the construction consortium. In essence, you allow strong economic operators in the construction sector to co-operate in order to complete a project that has already been entrusted to one of them. What transparency, then, and what equal treatment does this ensure? Do you not understand that you are strengthening the risk of co-existence and agreement, under the table between the major companies? Do you not understand that you are distorting competition and undermining the public interest with a loss of state money? You obviously understand all this, but you still don't care. In addition, I cannot comment on the provisions relating to labour violations. At every opportunity, remove provisions that protect workers. Remove provisions restricting the immunity of employers. So here you are going to abolish the compulsory exclusion from the public contracts of companies that violate labour law with high and very serious acts, for which fines have been imposed by the Labour Inspectorate. You are closing your eyes, that is, once again, to the offenders of labour legislation and labour rights. You do not care that with such gifts you distort competition between legal and illegal employers. You do not care that you are once again giving the slogan of violating labour rights. You are all doing this at a time when unemployment is mocking again and workers need protection. From the first day of your governance you are reducing workers' rights and serving interests against the environment. You continue to legislate against the environment and you do not care that our country has been convicted and paid for such violations. We seek to reduce bureaucracy and simplify the competitive procedures of the public procurement system. We are, however, linking these objectives and assessing them on the basis of strengthening transparency and safeguarding public money. Our knowledge is to facilitate reform efforts, but also to strengthen the participation of all and small and medium-sized enterprises and protect the environment. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress that public procurement is linked to our democracy. The faith of citizens in democracy, in its institutions, in the integrity and honesty of the state institutions is essential. Do you really think that by the law you're going to vote on, you're protecting transparency and the protection of public money from corruption phenomena? Do you really think you are strengthening control procedures and combating distortion of competition? Apparently, no. So you return with quick steps in the past, this catastrophic past, which led us to bankruptcy in 2009. The majority of the people who voted in 2019 may have trusted you again, believing that you may have changed. But he understands what roads you drive and he will once again reply to you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u355	Thank you too, Mr. Kalamatiano. Athanasios Davakis from New Democracy has the floor and then Mrs Constantina Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is an important intervention, an innovation in the process and the way the defence procurement system operates - for which I am going to speak - and it employs the second chapter of this legislation. For its details, however, I have been detailed in my two speeches during the debate in the Committees. Today, I would like to focus on just one issue, which concerns our involvement, of the representatives of the Greek people, who are the one who, at the end of the day, finances the case called armaments programmes in defence planning from his misery. Ladies and gentlemen, the present institutional armament and planning process has been set up on the basis of a balance between the defence needs of the international security environment we live in, the developments in the field of military technology and the constraints imposed by the economic and budgetary reality, which has been going through our country for a decade. That is why the Minister for National Defence is involved in it as a representative of the strategic priorities and guidelines of the Government, the General Staff as the specialised end-users of military equipment and, of course, the National Representation, all of us as representatives of the citizens, guaranteeing transparency and responsible for the final adoption of the state budget. But Parliament's involvement in defence planning serves another equally important priority. The long-term horizon for the implementation of the armaments programmes, more than four years, means that most of them go beyond the scope of an election cycle, i.e. the formal government service. This makes it all the more important to achieve a broad political consensus and a continuity strategy in the critical area of defence procurement. As it seems, therefore, in Article 148 of this bill, the Committee on Equipment and Contracts, in which I have the honour of chairing for over a year, is the parliamentary area for the exercise of the supervision of citizens and for the formulation of the political consensus and strategic continuity in the field of defence procurement. Despite these important tasks of our committee, the legal framework has so far not clearly defined the type and content of the information to be obtained from the Ministry of National Defence by each of the Members involved in this committee. The result of this legal vacuum is that the relevant information notes differ considerably in content and utility, with many of them focusing more on a balance of the institutional course of the respective armaments programme, that is to say, a history rather than presentation and documentation in a visible, detailed manner of the defensive feasibility of the related selection criteria and estimates of the total cost of the life cycle of each defence system, of each platform. At this point, I would like to point out that, with the take-up of tasks by this political leadership, we are seeing a marked improvement in the quality and content of the information notes that the committee receives. But our experience has shown that things are not always like that. So in order to cover this legal void and the treatment of its institutional consequences, I would like to present to the House today - and I believe I will be listened to on the part of the Minister of National Defence - a package of proposals that can be added to the existing Article 2 of Law 3978/2011, of the famous non-procurement law, as he says, for the purpose of upgrading the Committee on Military Programmes. Firstly, provision should be made for the submission to the members of our committee, the copies of the forces structure, the long-term programming of defence equipment and the rolling programming of military equipment contracts. Secondly, to provide for the submission to the members of the committee, of a classified report, which will contain the following information on each long-term programme: firstly, the description of the defence problem, namely what is our defence problem, the selection criteria, the alternatives available on the domestic and international market along with the estimated cost of their life cycle, a detailed recommendation on the proposed armament solution based on the above criteria, a proposal on the desired level of security of supply, namely the follow-up and a presentation of compatibility with the national defence industrial strategy. Thirdly, provision should be made for the submission of the following classified documents to the members of the committee on an annual basis. In other words, a report on the progress of all military equipment programmes, for which the committee has consulted. Also, a report on the military threats to the security and interests of the country. And a detailed chart of planned expenses for military equipment for the whole year. Finally, it is possible to allow members of the Equipment Programmes Committee to request assistance from the relevant departments of the Ministry of National Defence on the management and protection of classified documents. These proposals, ladies and gentlemen, do not burden the Ministry of National Defence with additional work, since the above information is already, for the majority of them, available in its relevant internal procedural documents and in its institutional texts nor will it cause delays in the process of approving and enforcing the armaments programmes. The Equipment Programmes Committee has never been a brake on the defensive planning process and the conclusion of contracts in the field of defence and security. On the contrary, it always responds directly and consistently, even on the most urgent calls for a meeting. In particular, our colleagues, the officials of the House in the committee concerned, have good experience to tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, my proposals, which are also in the good practices of other states, will improve I believe the contribution of the Committee on Military Programmes to defence planning, enrich its institutional memory, strengthen transparency, contribute to the essential public dialogue and contribute to the development of a continuity and political consensus strategy on the crucial issue of armaments expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr Davaki. Mrs. Konstantina Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement and then Mr. Evangelos Apostolos from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a statement before entering the substance of the bill. At a time when our homeland, like all of the planet, is being tested by the pandemic and the economic crisis that comes from it, but also from Turkish aggression, some are trying to turn public debate into a hunger strike by the murderer of eleven people. We all respect human life. That is why I do not understand the distinction that is being made between sensitive and unaltered and, at the same time, the attack and questioning of democracy and the rule of law in Greece by those who do not respect human life, democracy, the rule of law, and these days they are making their presence clear by attack everywhere, even in police departments. I have noted that we all want Dimitris Koufantinis to live, and that is why there is one way to appeal to justice. And I'm glad that the defense of Dimitris Koufontina is changing the line of cruising. Let us all be clear and agree on the whole political world. Democracy is not blackmailed, subjected to political games or threatened. Those who threatened it, whether called "17 November" or "Golden Dawn, were isolated democratically and are in prison, with decisions of Greek justice. It is a problem and a pan-European originality if you want, to talk about terrorism, to see the banner 'We were born 17 November', which hold protesters in favour of Mr Koufantina, supposedly defenders of some human rights, such as the alleged right to choose prison sentences. So let's put an end to all this. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now entering the current draft law on modernising and simplifying the regulatory framework of public procurement and other provisions. According to the explanatory statement, the changes you bring seek to strengthen the Greek State’s capacity to make public investments, but also to more rapid absorption and utilisation of European Union funds and financial facilities, in particular with a view to the 2021-2027 programming period and the use of the possibilities of the Recovery Fund. The vital importance of any reform in these areas, ladies and gentlemen, is easily perceived by all of us in the face of the criticality of the days that we are going through and especially the days that will come. Our economy at the moment and the decisions to be taken in support of it require the establishment of an institutional framework which ensures that the country is re-launched at a rapid pace, but in no way allows for a reduction in transparency and public control. Unfortunately, however, the study of the bill and the views of both the opposition parties and the bodies demonstrate exactly the opposite. What I am about to mention, Minister, is not utopian theories, but they were actually implemented during the PASOK governance period in 2011. Law 4013/2011 established the National Public Contract Database and the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts. These reforms have been innovations in the development and economy of public procurement, but have always been a cornerstone of transparency. The truth is that, by legislating these reforms, they can be derived from these bodies which are usable elements for the multitude and budget of public procurement contracts for services and works, as well as for contracts that fall within the area of defence. The government with this bill chooses to follow the SYRIZA government's tactics, the results of which have now been clearly failed and inadequate. The three hundred and sixty-six amendments introduced by SYRIZA come to be added within a year and a half to eighteen more amendments by the current Government of New Democracy. The argument that by adopting this draft law, the need to remove public contracts from bureaucratic clashes, on the one hand, Minister, can be very easily dismantled, on the other hand, conceal serious adverse consequences for the transparent way of administration and, of course, for what is envisaged for the environment. Do you really, Minister, raise the financial limit from EUR 20,000 to EUR 30,000 for general service procurement and EUR 60,000 for works contracts and social services contracts, where direct award is allowed, do you think that it aims solely at speeding up development? I wonder if the designation of contracts as a de minimis value, that is to say, those whose estimated value is equal to or less than EUR 2 1/2 000 and given that it does not ensure compliance with the principles governing public procurement, serves solely to simplify and rationalise the daimed legal framework. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, our remarks during the debate on the bill were not heard. For example, the introduction of private supervision in public works with the private investor is chosen and paid by the contractor and the provision for the return of the paradigm to the applicants in the exclusive 10-day period before they even take note of the views of the reporting authority are some small but passive points of the bill, which clearly opposes the core of transparency and sound management of public resources, even though you are trying to convince us that they are supposedly reforms. Any legislation or amendment to the framework regulating the development of our country is imperative in such a way that it is a successful model that gives a solution to the problems of poverty and unemployment, which we will be called upon to address in the near future, but which, at the same time, provides for the means of transparency and public control, in order to avoid the bad texts of the recent past. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, your multi-page bill is not one of these two features. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u359	And I, Mrs Giannakopoulou, thank you and especially for keeping time. Mr. Evangelos Apostles from SYRIZA has the floor. Then Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the Government, you claim that you are attempting to regulate relations between the State and the private sector in the field of public procurement and procurement. But you've already done it with the direct assignments that have even been gigantic. But with the bill being discussed, you are creating conditions of complete delivery of public service function in private hands. The private sector will not only oversee, testify and execute, but will also provide the public with the green light to pay the private designer, to prejudge and define the need for additional work, unforeseen work. All of this is because the New Democracy has declared development, while neglecting social, environmental, criteria for satisfying people's needs, such as flooding, civil protection and infrastructure, which our country needs to tackle natural disasters. Is it possible to entrust private individuals with the key points in defining the technical specifications, prices, materials and works, i.e. the cost of the projects? We therefore have a characteristic example of how the government continues to weaken the public sector both institutionally and functionally by addressing it as an obstacle to the implementation of its neoliberal policies. At the same time, of course, Mr Minister, you also extend the anti-environmental practice of the New Democracy through the opening up of another window for the development of business activities in protected areas, but also by the opening of competitions for projects prior to the completion of relevant environmental studies. All this will, of course, find its implementation in the management and absorption of the recovery fund and all the financial instruments that are running. At the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments announced that it approved a new EUR 489 million investment in the installation of eight wind parks with a total of four hundred megawatts. The four will be placed in north-central Evia and the other four in southern Evia. What has, of course, become clearer in this communication is that the mountain peaks of Evia have been and are still a landscape of conflict of specific interests. The main protagonist in this development was the Energy Regulatory Authority. Questions are a lot. Is the RAE aware of the proposal from the Green Fund to exclude investment in an area that includes 58% of the country, while leaving the remaining 42% for the installation of wind parks that will go beyond the national target in 2030 by one and a half times? Why does RAE meet all the requests related to the location of new wind farms without having assessed the capacity of the establishment areas based on the previous spatial planning when it accepts that it has been overhauled? Why does it allow for the installation of new wind-power ammunological tissues? Looks like he's promised more permits. The inhabitants of Kadi Konistros did not allow this yesterday and the new investors and RAE to know that there will be reactions then. Has RAE considered the question of the ownership and use of the forest character of land, which you propose to settle for particular wind parks? Has RAE followed the great battle to control the company's share capital, which appear to have received the relevant approvals? Did RAE know that behind these companies was a specific Dutch company, which, in the communication of our Interministerial Committee, emerged from Portuguese? What everyone knows is that right now there's a fund with a lot of money. It is the Recovery Fund with 32 billion available, mainly for the development of renewable energy sources. If we take away the 5 billion that goes to the Fair Transmission Fund for defoliation, the rest want to share it from now, even using the licenses they have in their hands? Urgent processes, ladies and gentlemen, especially for investments over 100 million, such as those in question, have already been implemented by submitting a request for accession to strategic investments. It now remains in regional government a margin of only thirty days from the submission of the file on its opinion on environmental conditions. That's where another question comes in. How will the regional council be consulted without having an assessment of the region's own capacity based on the existing specific spatial planning? If this deadline is extended, then the dossier is automatically adopted. If you are connecting it, gentlemen of the government, with the defence of the environment, we are telling you that you are linking it to defending certain interests. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr Apostle, for keeping time. Mrs Lykoulis from the Change Movement and then Mrs Adamou Konstantina from Mera25. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a little while ago I arrived at my home after a two-day tour in my region, my constituency, the Larisa Prefecture, in the region of Elassona and Tyrnavos, in the villages of Damasi, Domenikos and Mesochori, where we have great damage to the catastrophic earthquake of more than 6, which unfortunately left a great wound once more in our region after Janos and after Medeia. This earthquake, unfortunately, has left hundreds of families on the ground right now in military tents. These people have lost their homes, their lives in fact, and indeed in a pandemic crisis, with the danger that health bombs will always be created in the area. That is why we are all trying together, the whole political system, the local authorities, all people to give our strength to the front line to avoid the worst. Minister - one of the first-class government ministers - certainly 80% for repairing houses is not enough, and 600 euros are not enough. We need very important and serious solutions to these issues, and we need them immediately. The project to protect the prefecture exists, it is already ready from Samos and you can implement it here and now and now and immediately. It would really be a victory for the political system and modern democracy, if people didn't spend a second night on the field and military scenes. They should have already been transferred to hotels. All of them should have been transferred, not just the elderly. This is to be labelled. At our request, there is a step in the EGE to avoid, as I said at the outset, the worst, but we do not have commitments at the moment for now and tomorrow and how these people will dawn. I want through the Step of Parliament to thank warmly - because it is not all black in this place - some exemplary teachers. They saved, ladies and gentlemen, sixty-three children who managed through the ruins of an old stone school in Damasi to carry one - one and take them out. Sixty-three children were saved. But I want to acknowledge that after an earthquake of 6.1 towers in my area, no public or private buildings fell, except old buildings, which means that engineers, architects and, in general, personnel who do technical work are often worth a great deal of talk about conscientiousness, with which it works, about the way and the consistency that they face public and private works in our country. Today and now we need all of you, ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not forget once again a place which, unfortunately, has passed too much, a productive place based on the rural economy, the backbone of the national economy, and which, unfortunately, has been unbelievably plagued lately. We need help, we need strength from your strength and courage from your courage. Minister, in the days that we were all two thousand people together on the field, we were not vaccinated, either personally or most of us, and we went there in the crowd, with the masks, of course, with the health measures that we could observe. But we had to stand by and meet with people. I don't know if there was any need for local agents, all these people, the personnel who were there for vaccination more than some of your paradox strains, which were vaccinated by violation of priority. I have been thinking about it, you know, very strongly these days and I have come to the conclusion that it was neither fair nor moral nor you are right to condemn it, but at the same time you must stop it. That's right. You don't agree. At the same time, however, you must find ways to deal with it. As far as we are concerned, Mr Minister, it is not just those who come out in the light of publicity that there are many others. So when the calamity comes and we see in the first shot what's going on, it's good to think about these things more. One comment, because I heard the dialogue you had with Mr. Dritsa. Extremely interesting political dialogue. As far as we are concerned as observers and as far as we are concerned, I have heard you at some point, Mr Minister, say - after which you have explained, by addressing Mr Kegeroglu - that 'we will not deal with it, we do not care what PASOK and the Change Movement says'. You should be interested, though. You should be interested in being a democracy. In democracy, you know, Minister, all views are heard and in real democracy, opinions are respected, opinions are understood, political world shares its views. Many times they change positions, you know, parties. Many times the parties as pillars of democracy and political bodies of ideology and rights embrace good views from other parties. Besides, I believe that the 11-11-2011, the date of your ministries, Mr Minister, was a date that you remember. You have participated in a government that has also been 'blocked' by other parties. So now, because 'they deprive the first', as they say in my parts, I imagine that you, too, understand the spirit with which I speak, always in the context of democracy. So today, to say two words about the bill you are bringing here and which I have seen with great interest, we will, in fact, disagree again. What can we tell you? For public consultation? PASOK brought it back years ago, brought public consultation, we instituted this very large reform. You couldn't understand her, you couldn't understand her, you couldn't embrace her. Forty-eight articles, without consulting, you brought them into the bill, with hundreds of problems. The main thing I would like to say is that you have brought a law through a reformist breath and said that you would change things. The law of SYRIZA, which has indeed had many gaps and has indeed created many problems, you said that you will incorporate it into a new legislation and you will now manage to overthrow the scenery. But at the level of transparency you are really being controlled. Unfortunately, once again, you have not only been conducting reform, but only in procedural terms. The previous speakers have referred to these. I had more time to say about the region. But in any case, you are mocking the ears of your own, your good children again. You put bricks with various articles of this bill, but you cannot hide your great joy. Your pleasure for the big party, which you're preparing for, can't be hidden. And it is not panacea in any way what you are trying to complete with these regulations, which you bring. You told us about the agencies. Which bodies did you really hear, Minister? Have you heard, for example, the local government, or is BSE with us rather than with you? Did you hear the comments made by the HSY, the WTO TTA CEDEFOP? Did you hear what they told you in the consultation? Of course, you will allow me to say that after twenty-five years of thorough involvement with self-government, I can see behind words and behind fine letters. So I say to you that all of this, which you have been taking care of before, for the crazy party I was saying, is not very easy to get through because there are resistances to society now and they are understood at first glance. Unfortunately, with regard to what you are actually doing with direct awards - an issue that has been debated very much in Parliament today, I have been following it - there are huge concerns. From a self-government point of view direct commissions may be a relatively useful tool for the operation and rapid restoration of problems, especially with small municipalities, but you enter the logic of white - black and always choose black, opacity. You do not confuse and you do not choose for the process that we must finally put into a new institutional framework. That is the key, and that is our view, that there should be a wide-ranging dialogue within a consensus - not a confederation that we are seeing, which our Parliamentary representative has also pointed out today - an institutional reunification of the powers of local government, with the state being a brother, Minister, and trying to resolve the major and chronic issues, which, unfortunately, you have not succeeded in fulfilling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u363	Please, Mrs. Litikoli, finish. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u364	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, you have to be a verifier and control over the very same person, the very same body. You know, democracy can't handle this. I think the system won't last very soon, you'll be back to review. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u366	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u367	I still have a piece of legislation to testify, Mr President. In Article 108(3), I read it because it is of some importance - an sixth subparagraph is added as follows: ‘In cases of conclusion or execution of public contracts, the contracting authority may designate as a member of the advisory bodies of committees or working parties an externally qualified scientist, who shall have the necessary expertise to fulfil the provisions of paragraph 1’. The fourth subparagraph of Article 10(1) is replaced by the following: ‘Scientificists shall maintain independence vis-à-vis the Competition Committee. Furthermore, they are subject to a duty of confidentiality and are obliged to conclude relevant clauses or confidentiality contracts.’ I put it in the Minutes that you can read it and compare it. It is to be able to have qualified staff in the advisory committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u368	Good. To be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs, please. Mrs Brysidou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Haris) Mamoulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the long-term situation in our country with the economic crisis, as well as the economic crisis that has arisen from the coronary, has caused enormous problems and there is a great need to legislate directly to help to restore the economy, to develop and to combat unemployment. It is commonly accepted by everyone that growth results from small and large projects which must be done properly and in good time. There are problems that have recently occurred and No 4412/2016 needs to be changed in many respects to make it more effective. This has been established throughout the last period. After all, the previous government had noted this as well and made significant changes in the previous period. First of all, we have a problem with projects which are delaying and sometimes becoming mistreated. This process creates problems and leads to the delay of projects, but even to their negligence, when they use financial instruments from European programmes. For this reason, the design system is being strengthened. It is a system that enables a project to be auctioned before the study is fully matured, allowing the contractor to study it in depth, approaching reality and not having during the project's execution, increasing objects and more generally malfunctions, which are long delayed, and sometimes do not allow us to complete the project and to end it. These processes affect the work, but also the local society and, more generally, the country. There are also problems and difficulties in the tendering procedure. In the previous law, it was foreseen that civil servants should be selected to participate in the tenders. Sometimes, however, the people who were selected were not from the service that was auctioning the work, but were from some other services, so there is a difficulty in the auction, in the practice and even in the response of objections if they were to come. In this sense, therefore, it is now possible, with this change in the law, to involve officials who are from the same service and, of course, the objections to go to another pre-trial appeal committee to examine them. We therefore consider that the tender procedure will be made easier and immediately able to take over the work that will take place. The minimum of the discount, which the contractor may not be less than 10% of the average of those offering their own offer, is also foreseen. This is because less than 10% should be justified. This is because we have seen major discounts in the past, which are made either because the contractor has made a mistake or because he has a need for liquidity and wants - even temporarily - to shift his problem, but which comes before him in the next few years, so that he is also affected, but that the project is also affected. It also includes the settlement process, an important process, which exists in all European countries. The reason is clear. Because there will always be disagreements, which, if we resort to resolving them in the courts, will be huge delays, which will substantially affect the work. We also have issues in the matter of supervision. In recent years there has been no recruitment of civil servants and so, day after day and year by year, we have a lack of engineers who could undertake the projects and much more projects than we have had so far. So small local communities, small municipalities, but also larger and fewer projects, are affected, because there is no suitable potential, because there are no people, the engineers who will receive the studies or oversee the projects. It is therefore possible with this bill that will become a law - I call on everyone to vote for it, because it is a functional bill and will facilitate and lead to the development of our country - to be recruited and paid by the contractor certified engineers or engineers in order to carry out this work. It is an important part and will help to make much more projects. The aim is not only to become one or two of these projects, but next to them other projects and in general, to facilitate citizens and bring growth. Another rule and condition enters, too, the time of delivery of the work. We know that the big blow over time was delays. There were, of course, the criminal clauses. Now, however, the reward of increasing the contractor's payment by 5% on the budget is also in place to reward for the rapid completion of the project. Finally, I would like to refer to two amendments which have been referred to. First of all, I would like to mention that the demolition protocols are being extended until December 2021. This is something that is important, because during the pandemic period, those who wanted to legalise their homes or buildings were not able, on the other hand, if there were no legalisation they could not move or go to another region. It is also important to extend two years, given to local means, to highlight project declarations, which are being auctioned with a view to transparency, information and, of course, to financial support. It is a very great advantage, which I think we have supported in various debates and acted. We need to know that it was also decided by the previous government, but it was due to expire in December 2020. Finally, I would like to say that on the pretext of transparency, we cannot lead our place to destructive policies and behaviours. This reminds me of the Minister of the previous government, where invoking transparency he had laid rules for the drivers' licences. This has led to real economic dead-end businesses, drivers' schools, people who wanted to examine from their public candidates to go to multi-month strikes, because they were not adequately compensated, people who were interested in getting the diploma to work, especially professionals, did not have that possibility. In the end, we have led to a very negative situation. Because, in my view, nothing is more destructive than going toward growth and not helping to secure a job, progress and recovery of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. The last speaker, Mrs Constantina Adamou, from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill makes it clear that the government is failing to eliminate chronic distortions in terms of feasibility, resources available and conditions for the award and execution of public contracts. This, together with persistent bureaucracy, opacity, but also collaborative coexistence, composes an extremely dystopic environment, which is a brake on the development of our economy. At the same time, the gap between the colossal construction companies is growing, on the one hand, and the self-employed scientists, free professionals, engineers, on the other, who are struggling every day in their sector. There are time-consuming distortions in public procurement, which are not enough skin patches with opportunityal facilities to contractors, as is the case with this bill, but radical changes are needed at all levels. Immediate rationalisation is needed at the level of strategic planning and decision-making on the real benefits that society is to be fruited with in the medium or long term by the conclusion of a public contract. We all know that our country has paid very much for the implementation of pharaonic projects, such as those of the Olympic facilities, which, apart from the temporary benefits of impression, did not offer anything essential to society in the long term, but, on the contrary, have been linked to our country's budgetary problems in recent years. Today, our country is not convinced by announcements about fllyovers and underwater arteries, but seeks sustainable green development projects, modern and resilient infrastructures that will address the consequences of climate change, as well as it needs works goods and services that will fully meet its needs. It is true that the abrupt integration of European Directives 2014/24 and 2014/25 into our national law, initially with the inapplicable Law 4281/2014 and subsequently with Law 4412/2016, brought significant complications and delays in the system of production of technical works and goods and services. Most contracting authorities have been invited from day to day to implement a complex legal framework, which since then has been constantly amended, without providing central guidance, with significant shortages of technical and legal specialised staff and often without the necessary means and know-how for the award of public contracts through the Procurement Digital Platform. It is therefore imperative that we deal directly with the daunting bureaucracy, but also with the failures to implement the law, which usually lead to long-term preliminary or judicial proceedings. However, this bill does not mention any of the above. In addition, the ‘Procurement’ digital platform is not interconnected with other public information systems and databases, so that the audits of economic operators’ supporting documents are continuously repeated by the competition committees at different stages of the award procedure. We propose that the "Procurement" should be interconnected with the databases of TAXISNET, GEMI, EKO, JEPA, TEI, contracted registers and others, so that the possibility of submitting tenders through EKO can be systematically withdrawn in cases of economic operators, for which, of course, the grounds for exclusion are in place, thus reducing the burden of the committees and speeding up the award procedure. At the same time, the Government must at last apply objective control systems, evaluation and enforcement of clauses through the reduction of guarantee letters or the periodic exclusion from public procurement in cases where a distortion of competition is clearly presumed to be distorted to the economic operators, using clear and measurable criteria. This bill is epidermal and does not want to deal in depth with the chronic illnesses found in public procurement. The increase in the limit of direct awards of EUR 20,000 to EUR 30,000 or to EUR 60,000, depending on the extent to which non-transparent selective cooperation is enhanced, while the twelve-month prohibition period for the conclusion of a new contract with only the same contractual object can be considered as a pretext, since in many cases the contractual object is not identical to the actual work carried out or the actual service or supply actually implemented. In addition, public contracts are to be checked to private individuals selected by the audited persons themselves. This is the definition of a conflict of interest. Project managers will clearly be able to - and must - contribute to speeding up the process of schedule keeping, better coordination of the parties involved and reducing the administrative burden. However, their choice must be made by the contracting authorities themselves and not by the contractors themselves, which are called upon to control. Let us not forget that their permanent obligation is to safeguard public money and to control economic operators' quality and quantity. In addition, this bill reverts to the forefront of the failed model of construction, which has in the past led to overcompensation of projects and dispersal of public money. In conclusion, I would like to refer in particular to the anti-environmental character of this draft law, as it is now by decision of the Minister for Development that the procedures for the authorisation of development projects within the sub-areas NATURA will be circumvented, which is in complete contrast with Article 6(1) of European Directive 1993/43, which requires measures for the conservation of protected habitats and species, which meet the ecological requirements. The bill runs counter to Greece's commitment to the objectives of the Green Agreement, which places the preservation of biodiversity at the heart of the European Union's development strategy, and for this reason more than twenty-five environmental organisations such as WWF, Alkyone, Arktouros, Anima, Greek Ornithological Society and others made a joint resolution, which has more than thirty thousand signatures and a joint communication on the immediate abolition of Article 219. We support this resolution with all our souls, and we demand, even the abolition of this particular article 219, since it is not going to abolish the bill as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, despite its far too large a volume, deals with issues that do not relate to the basic and chronic pathogens of public procurement and is therefore anti-developmental. The regulations promoted will neither speed up the procedures for the award and execution of public contracts nor resolve bureaucracy and opacity phenomena, but will, on the contrary, lead to an increase in the real costs and to a qualitative deterioration of the works and services provided. This bill serves State-owned contractors' interests to the detriment of society and the environment and must be withdrawn immediately. For all these reasons, therefore, we are voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mrs. Adamu. Before I give the floor to the Minister, does any of the rapporteurs wish to make use of the three-fold terminology?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u373	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u374	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u375	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u376	Yes, sir. I give the floor now to Mr Arseni. You'll all talk. We're used to going from the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is shocking that Mr Hatzidakis a few months ago, in November, called for the demolition of arbitrary acts to be speeded up and now we see the same government a few months later asking for the demolition protocols to be suspended. Really what's going on, who's going through? You didn't tell us. Because SYRIZA didn't give an answer, we'll be clear. Yes, Mera25 is asking for these demolitions to proceed immediately. For Article 219, 'the king is naked'. Where is the Ministry of the Environment in the bill that decides what is to be built in the protected areas before the conditions of protection come out? We have twenty-nine organisations with a million supporters, if you see how many people support each one of them separately. Mr. Georgiadis, will you apologize? Do you get back your expression that 'when the ecological organizations find you, are you doing something good'? Because if you take it, with twenty-nine organisations and so many supporters you have to withdraw Article 219. So you're taking her or aren't you taking her? Clear it up. In Article 58, the audited contractors are recruited by their auditor. This show - because it's a show - we'll pay for it. We'll pay the auditor the contractors will choose to control them. But I'll close something between serious and funny. As we have seen, you have accepted Mr Kedicoglou's amendment, but we note that the amendment you have made, Minister, only has a explanatory statement. He does not say what changes and what is his proposal. We really can't take that much of a "perfect" thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Mr. Villard will not speak. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u379	Although it is a first issue in the media, the earthquake in Larissa is, of course, absent from the debate. I say this because the news lights must not stop, they must not erase until the damage is restored. And of course, we express our sympathy. Why am I saying it? Because on the occasion of today's bill in question how many public projects concern earthquake protection, the answer is none. Why? Because they concern people's needs, they concern the protection of people who do not bring good profits to the big business. This is ultimately your streamlining and simplifying. Why? Because the public interest is in the interests of the major entrepreneurs. The same is true of anti-military protection. As far as Article 219 is concerned, there has of course been a lot of talk, but it is not the only anti-environmental article. There are others, for which we have asked for a roll-call vote, and for Amendment No 776. Look, the Minister has protested about the criticism we have made in this amendment. But he did not answer us about the postponement of demolitions on a hayal, beach, bank, outdated zone and so forth. The coronary is a pretext. We're not making anything out of our minds, but we're judging the same evidence you're giving. You in the explanatory statement write that it concerns main hotels, shops, maritime groups and is on page five. You say again on page seven that the purpose of regulation is to legitimise, settle, repair and any development of these projects. I do not change a word from what you have written in the amendment that we are voting against. Of course, Mr. Besiropoulos confirmed them to the fullest. Conservation and peculiarisation of agialou, beach, which means that what belongs throughout society goes to the service of capitalist profit. You call this a public interest and a protection of the environment. But to remind us of Mr Hatzidakis' statements a year ago, then Minister for the Environment, who advertised demolitions with funding from the Green Fund at arbitrary hotels. And they've already started in Halkidiki and Lassithi from decentralised administrations. With what you demolished, what are you going to do? However, there is a lot of ecological hypocrisy. I say this because SYRIZA may condemn Article 219, but let him ask how many permits for the installation of RES have been granted to NATURA regions, which has raised the protests of local communities fairly. No wonder Mr. Georgiadis rewards you for that, because you have the same roll and you're setting up fights. The same applies to the construction of beaches and cayalous. It is therefore not only the current government, but also the SYRIZA, which you are involved in the reactive urban planning for the green and energy transition that is the European Union. I would like to say about the amendments. The first with number 775 for the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation we are voting against it, because it is coming to expand the depreciation of the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation, promoting the development of research activity through market mechanisms. The Minister decides on the Director, of course, by abolishing the Deputy Directors. This supports the manipulation of research policy to promote the research chapter strategy. In the other two amendments, number 777 and number 783 we say 'the present'. In Amendment No 783 we proposed that you isolate what is for the regional press because we were all voting for it, but you did not do so and you are forcing us to say'residents'. And under number 786 we say 'yes', we vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Katrin has the floor of a special speaker from the Change Movement for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are reaching the end of an exhaustive debate. Four days to the House - and to the committee and to the plenary - with very long sittings. You will allow me, Mr President, to say that under the responsibility of Mr Georgiadis, because he also complained to us on Tuesday that he did not find any reason to oppose the opposition because it was a very good climate for the debate, that was in plenary and a lot of the time of the debate was unfortunately spent on issues which are not related to the substance and content of the bill. From the debate in committee and in plenary, we had, on the one hand, a government which, up to now, considers it to be a bill which is part of public procurement and public works and which will change the bad texts and, on the other, will, on the other hand, have the same meaning as anti-government, which, although in a different sense, is in disagreement with the principle of this bill and with many individual provisions and the view of the government. In fact, I was also surprised that much of the actors in the debate had serious objections and reservations about the effectiveness and functionality of this bill. How can he have no reservations, like us, of course? Do transparency and accountability increase, as the government says? We have said a number of cases in which, unfortunately, these are not supported. Is a framework which provides for almost a hundred ministerial decisions? While in committee the Minister for Infrastructure said that he would tell us a specific timetable for when - he will put the same bet as a government and not as a person - there will have been ministerial decisions, we have not heard that and I fear that the final application of the law will be delayed. Private supervision, a declaratory system. Mr Karamanlis has come to tell us that he is adopting the PASOK proposal, comparing apples with oranges, building auditors with substituting the public sector by individuals chosen by manufacturers. Does this bill ultimately address the major public procurement problems? I'm afraid not, Mr. President. Excluding the right one, which we will vote on, a provision on the single technical standard system, which we believe is intermittent and will change the bad texts, because there will also be sound budgets and proper auctions and we will not have the phenomenon of unusually low tenders, in all the others I think the bet has not been won. As also - I shall end in a minute, Mr President - we do not believe that the judicial and preliminary protection of the parties concerned is being shielded by the large number of provisions. In fact, we have said so in the debate that the incentive to withdraw the appeal, without the applicant being aware of the views of the independent authority really surpassing us. So all this makes us to vote against the bill in principle for two reasons, Mr President. Firstly, because in the last 12 months we have seen a government which, on the pretext of pandemic, while the first time was a reality, has then worked on the pandemic in the field of procurement and procurement. In fact, today, he votes for a provision giving an extension of direct assignments from the Ministry of Digital Governance, which is the only Ministry that should have proceeded with normal procedures by using new technology. So that's what we've seen so far. The other, obviously, is our legitimate concern about the way in which the funds for the Recovery Fund, the new NRP and the Rural Development Programme will be used and used. We are clear that, despite our fundamental differences, we will vote in favour of all the provisions relating to the Ministry of Defence and the method of procurement and procurement. We therefore believe it is a bill that fails to solve the problems and fails to solve them. It does not have the guarantees of transparency that the three-year implementation of the previous framework requires of any weaknesses and modifications. It does not ensure - that for us in the Change Movement is very important - the conditions for the rapid absorption of resources, which will invade and be the country's last hope for recovery and recovery after the crisis we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u382	Thank you. Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. In the conclusion of the debate on this bill, let me refer to two main issues relating to the core of the thinking and the legislature itself, and raise a number of issues here. Of course, I should like to answer the Minister's question, because issues have been raised in particular concerning the extension of the sea and the forests. I will substantiate you because it is not true and you are due, Minister, to apologise to us. First of all, the issue of number one: the famous amendment. In fact, mention in the way of a rhetorical challenge, that SYRIZA agrees with the strategy you are following. What's this strategy? For decades the previous governments have created a certain insurmountable violation of the country's urban environment, all of which has been saints and forests. We started a great effort in 2018 - you know that - which has worked. I say this because he has referred here today to the National Representation that the previous government has not made any efforts to resolve this issue, to legitimise and to respect order. That happened and not just happened. I would like to present and submit a series of publications. The News: "Sunio and Marathon the first bulldozers for the arbitrary." Kathimerini: “With a guide to the rope in the siege of arbitrari ones. Launching and demolition operations carried out’. Speech epitome, Minister, is the act. We too have a large number of such acts, harmonisations with legislation and listening to the environmental footprint that we leave to the next generations. And we do it with certain moves. Furthermore, further proof of my words: 'SYRIZA Members' move' in this parliamentary term - thirty-seven Members with signatures - with question - to Parliament - to the then Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, 'express their concern at the progress of the demolition contests', which, incidentally, went ahead with our pressure and the decentralised administrations with the appropriate appropriations have proceeded with the tenders. Now that the present Government, the Ministry responsible for suspending the act, is in progress. Why October and December? Why October, not next year, or thirty days? Why these about thirty, a hundred forty days of additional ambiguity? Hence the issue of elections and manipulation around this issue. Now, I think this has been clarified. Two points on the amendments. Mr President, I would like to discuss the amendments that we have tabled and, in fact, two specific amendments. There was no debate on the issue of impoverishedness, and I wanted to see the government's view in general on this issue. I know that there is also a financial impact, but I have the feeling that it is of minor importance, in view of the very important potential benefit to our fellow citizens, free professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises. I now come to the subject, which I consider to be the epitome of hypocrisy for the Technical Chamber of Greece. The Minister mentioned many times in all the committees, meetings and plenary sessions in his excellent relationship with the Chamber of Technical Chambers, the need to strengthen the Chamber of Technical Chambers with many forms of testimonies. If that is the case, why do you not accept our amendment, which effectively cancels what all the technical world has been shouting for a month and a half now, this incomprehensible one - I do not want to express myself here - a bill by Mrs Kerameo, which equates the effort, the fight to learn so many years of fellow engineers with dubious and worthy colleges, which we all know, two and a half years old? If, then, you really have this sensitivity, Minister, behold Rhodes, to do so. Refer to your position, in the main position after the speech of the Chief of Police Response, Alexis Tsipras, a phrase from the "Odipus Tyrannos" for Cretan. I shall reply and it relates to an article that has left a lot of dust in the last few days in the last one and a half weeks. "And he that is asking for salt, and fleeeth the things that are left." So what you are looking for very much, you may conquer it. But what you're negligent about is getting away with. Unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u384	Oedipus tyrant!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u385	With "Tyrants Tyrannos" I answer. Same way. Listen. Improve the environment. And not just neglect it. This is criminal negligence. Now it's a protracted process. It is, of course, not your fault for Mr Hatzidakis' earlier legislation. Now, however, here we have a cannabis case under Article 219. We'll say it one more time. We will close with this issue, because it is true, for us in Civicism, that plays a decisive role and is of primary importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u386	But please, Mr Mamulaki. You've spoken for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u387	Yes, Mr. President. I'm closing up with Article 219 with which we started. You have the opportunity even now, at the very last moment, to withdraw this article, an article that has achieved something really incomprehensible until first, to perpetuate all of the country's environmental organisations against this article. It is a pity, because it is also against all the pensioners of this article. So I think there is one issue here and it is a last environmental one, I would say, request that it be heard and withdrawn. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u389	Mr President, SYRIZA is calling for Article 219 to cover the fact that he agrees in depth or, if you wish, does not disagree with the extension of demolition. These communal tricks, however, were revealed today because they were directly provoked by the present Minister for Development, Mr Adonis Georgiades, both the parliamentary representative and a large number of officials here. They had three hours to answer clearly and straightforwardly. They didn't do it and they hid behind words and old events to blur their position. This proves that the Government's decision is correct because of the circumstances of prolongation of demolition. I say this, Mr President, because neither the politically and scientifically qualified rapporteur, as he had the opportunity to prove, of the SYRIZA, has answered us now. It could say the simple thing: it is your legislative initiative, but we agree. Start tomorrow morning's demolitions. A very simple and easy word, which many SYRIZA officials refused to eject in Parliament. What greater proof that they agree, but they are stepping back on two boats, one foot on the environmental organisations, the other foot on the owners of these property, and thus continue on their brilliance. However, the same was done in the bill, Mr President, a bill for which, despite the fact that it is a holiday day today, it was worth staying until late on the night of Chiknampt, on this traditional day for the Greek people. Because first of all, it has been discussed thoroughly. We all have an experience. Number of bodies, MPs, parties, opinions on all provisions. It puts public contracts in a new climate of speed and transparency, with a holistic approach to the issues of the Ministry of Development, with all the platforms, with all publications from much lower amounts now, with committees set up, with committees that strengthen legal certainty. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned, it is positive to involve private supervisory bodies. It happens with the independent engineers in the country's most successful projects, the PPPs and concessions. Another way has happened with the building auditors, because that is where we had a concession of public authority to private engineers and the system has worked for twenty years. Since it works in three similar projects either public or private, why should this system not work in public works? The odds suggest it'll work. The unjustified low bids are the wound of public works in Greece. We are told by Opposition: 'But do you have any other country in Europe that is a private supervisory body?' Have you, ladies and gentlemen, seen this mess in Greek public works in any other European Union country? You are attacking the progressives and you tell us to copy only others, not to have a new, innovative idea, which will improve what is called public works and deliver them to the Greek taxpayer faster, even more economical, as is the case in similar cases of the project production systems that I mentioned to you, the ESDP, concessions, construction auditors. Mr Minister, I have referred to the major and important amendment. I should like, frankly, to thank both you and Mr Papathanassis, your Deputy Minister, because holistic is the bill and I believe that it can be a starting point for the country after the coronary, but, above all, for a more personal reason: you have brought the amendment and accepted it by Mr Lebanon to extend the right to publish notices by the regional press. I am not dealing with this at all, as is the case with regional press publishers or with other forces. I firmly believe, Mr Minister, that this is a matter that strengthens transparency, because in EISADS and platforms those who either have control over or win, engineers, contractors and services are entering. The ordinary citizen who needs to be informed - and I conclude here, Mr President - of the projects which he pays as a taxpayer, whether or not well or badly, especially in the region reads newspapers. In this sense, I sincerely congratulate you, because a sector that is a growth factor everywhere in Europe and North America, the regional press, has taken it out of uncertainty, even for two years, and I hope that we will also have a continuity when conditions are calling for a greater expansion. I call on all colleagues to vote with satisfaction for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, too. We will close with the denology of Mr Georgiadis' Minister for Development and Investment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Mamulaki, you've been excellent all day of the conversations. I have to say that. "And he that is asking for salt, and fleeeth the things that are left." One of the most characteristic phrases of the Cretan, perhaps in the most shocking tragedy of Sophocleus "Odipus Tyrannos".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u392	I didn't choose her at random.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u393	At the same time as you referred to it and referred at the same time to the collapse of the arbitrary forces in the area of Marathon by SYRIZA, as you put us in a spirit of ancient Greek wisdom and secretarial, I am not hiding to you that the notion of abusiveness came to my mind. Do you know why? Indeed, you have demolished the Marathon. It's true. You knocked him down. You referred to Marathon. Do you know when you knocked him down? 3-9-2018. Look out, gentlemen. You ruled from January 2015 and to break down your first arbitrarily at Marathon on 3-9-2018, the Eye had to be mediated. Because there were the dead in Matty, where the then government account was that the government was not responsible, but the arbitrary ones, you remembered to tear down the arbitrary to strengthen your Eye account. So your reference reminded us of the greatest moment of the abundance - in the ancient Greek sense of the word - of Alexis Tsipras as Prime Minister, who was punished by the new election in July 2019. Mr Bukkokouros said something to you earlier. I have to say publicly, dear fellow Member, that you have been excellent, studied, diligent, hardworking, consistent and most important for your fellow citizens, useful, because many of your remarks have been accepted and improved the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u395	What did he say? Again, I come to the ancient Greeks who like us two. He says: “Do you always want to copy others? Can we not have any good idea'? We are now leaving Sophocles and we are going to the Epitaph of Pericles: "We are caring for the state that envys the pelagic laws." Look out, we have a city that doesn't envy the laws of others. Why? Because we have confidence in our powers, we have confidence in our power. This is what Mr. Bukokouros said earlier, to see that the ancient Greek secretariat is always present. I come now to talk about SYRIZA's hypocrisy. I've got it all on my phone now. That's what I did all the time you were talking about. I found them one, so it doesn't seem like I'm forgetting something. So let's go to the famous arbitrary amendment. I caused SYRIZA to tell me a simple phrase. You want to send the bulldozers tomorrow? You say: "We want you to send the bulldozers tomorrow to tear down." I challenged Mr. Tsakalotos one, caused Mr. Tsakalotos two, caused Mr. Tsakalotos three, left Mr. Tsakalotos. The parliamentary representative has not made such a statement. Mr. Arsenis did it, to which I'll come later. He also has a nice ancient Greek name, Criton. So be careful, dear fellow Member, because you are young in the Chamber. I didn't print it. I'll read you the date and you'll believe me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u396	On the other hand, it was 18 January, not September that you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u397	It was September. I've got it on my phone. I'll show it to you. It's September 3. It says so. On 11 July 2018, in the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior, ‘Reforming the institutional framework...’, etc. By the provision of this article, administrative sanctions for any construction protocols were suspended in Koumoundouros, Microlimanos Piraeus, with a view to the preparation of renewal studies in the area. This suspension has been extended until the end of 2017 and it is therefore appropriate to extend the period of validity of the suspension until the impending completion of the refreshment procedures of the area’. Signature: ‘Chakalotos, Papanatsiou, Stathakis’, etc. Here, how you as a government came a few days before the deadline for forced demolition expired and extended one year to demolition. That's what we do today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u398	And no coronary!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u399	No pandemic, no coronary crisis. I mean, when the government of SYRIZA and I show you here, so that there's no misunderstanding, see the post, it's 3-9-2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u400	March 2018, all eight taverns were demolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u401	Good, maybe before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u402	Do you know why I'm saying it? Because you're influencing your argument in Matty. Before Matty was demolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u403	All right, all right. As a government, then, you have had a one-year extension of demolition with an excuse, without a pandemic, without anything. Why didn't you say so today? Be fair, dear Christos. Because on the crucial issue, which I committed to the Delegation, I will withdraw the amendment, if you say so, you did not say so. You did well, and you didn't say so. It would be unfair to say so, it would be unfair and to withdraw the amendment. The amendment is fair, and now I will explain why it is fair beyond pandemic. Mr Arsenis said, therefore, with this disposition of the conspiracy of Mera25 on almost all the issues: "What took place in November 2020, when the Minister for the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis, then, said that the demolitions should be speeded up with now that the extension is given?" What's going on? That is correct, and it needs to be politically answered what has been mediated. During the application of the provision, the realization that SYRIZA had become something shocking. Do you know what happened to SYRIZA? I also have this on my phone, precisely so that I can read it to you, because only if we transfer the dates and we can explain exactly what has happened, they will be believeworthy and what we say will be understood by our fellow citizens and they will be able to convince us that what we say is right. When SYRIZA was government, what did he do? Ms Papastassiou changed the law in place, Law 2971/2001 and Law 4607/2009, to which she made two changes. The most important change of the two he made, do you know what it is? That it allows the arbitrary buildings to be settled in saints and all the others that it considered to be consistent with the decisions of the Council of State, but that private tourist accommodation is specifically excluded. So, what did Mrs. Papanatsiu do? He said that everything can be legitimized, except those regarding hotels. Why is he doing this? From SYRIZA's well-known ideology, obviously, for the private sector. Where does it lead us? First, in the destruction of existing businesses, no doubt, and in the middle of a coronary, since they cannot settle, because you have banned them from being able to settle, secondly, the courts...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u404	The Constitution forbids it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u405	No, because I told you that everyone else is allowed to take care of the law. Only for tourist accommodations don't allow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u406	Because he was a class five and he's a cavalry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u407	Don't interrupt, Mr. Mamulaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no. I'm telling you, your law is allowed to settle everything except private tourist accommodation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u409	And you, Minister, do not engage in dialogue. You're all violating the Rules of Procedure. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u410	Because of tumor. Eat the tumor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u411	When you talk, I'm not interrupting you. You're a little indisciplined. That's where you lose a little. So I'm coming back. What did SYRIZA do? He came to a law and said that all other things were settled, except private tourist accommodation. Why did he do that? Mrs Papanatsiou would have explained that if she had been re-elected. Evidently, the people...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u412	He's re-elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u413	Well, he'll come explain it to us. I was wrong, I'm sorry. So I say the simple thing: In the middle of a frame, where we are all talking about the great damage that tourism has suffered, when we say how we will save tourist businesses from the definitive paddock, is now the time to go and destroy those tourist businesses that have this looseness and which they cannot regulate even want? Now is the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u414	October?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u415	We'll see until October. Because until October, dear, they may have arranged some of them. If they have set up, they won't have to be demolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u416	And if they haven't set up
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u417	So what did the government do? It detects a problem of the coroner on tourism. It identifies a problem that SETE has highlighted - to answer Mr Kritonas Arsenis when this problem became known - on 2 February. Then the request of SETE was made, that this problem exists and too many units are destroyed. Has that been through since November? The demand is being considered, so that it does not become a mistake and we are destroying someone without having to, because these are jobs and work for people. We said we should go in October, have the time these months to check with certainty that we will not destroy any operation that can be saved and must be saved. As long as he can, he'll be saved. Since he can't and can't be demolished, he'll be demolished. Nor will the environment suffer any irreparable damage since the March transfer to October, nor will our democracy suffer any irreparable damage from it. Instead, if one is destroyed, because we did not do our job well, that is disgrace to all of us. So, rightly, SYRIZA did not ask to withdraw it and simply made an opposition to the show, which I accept, because it is a House, you will say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u418	After we vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u419	Yeah, okay, you're voting against it. I didn't tell you to vote in favour of it, so I wouldn't withdraw it. I didn't take it that far. I felt sorry for you. I thought you might want the bulldozers to come in tomorrow. Whoever's watching us knows. Mr Arsenis first understood, who actually stood up and said: 'What SYRIZA is not saying to you, says Mera25'. See in the Minutes what Mr Arsenis said. As far as Mr Arsenis is concerned, I should first of all like to apologize for the phrase. I explained it yesterday, but he wasn't in the Chamber. My phrase about environmental organizations and whether they call you, you do something good, you don't understand it. I have to explain it a little bit more, because you keep saying it the other day. It was an irony to Mr Famello, who at the time he was ruling had environmental organisations against him and went backwards, with which I happen to agree and supported him then for all this. It wasn't literally. At some point you should understand in our language that there are things that are, as we say, rhetoric and things that are literally spoken. You have a tendency to never be able to make such subtle discrimination. This characterizes the monolithicity of your thinking and perhaps explains why you have come to be a MP of the Mera25. We now go to the specific article 219, which has been poured too much ink. I have explained it so many times in committee and yesterday in plenary, which, if I say it again for the twenty-fifth time, will be tiring and disastrous. Obviously, I won't convince you. Obviously, you won't convince me. Our Greek people have chosen us to rule. Tomorrow he can choose you and change them. The Greek people rule. Whatever she wants to do, whoever she wants to elect, whoever she wants doesn't elect. At this stage of our history, however, he has elected us. As far as you are concerned, I want you not to be shocked at what I say, Mr Arseni. When I told SYRIZA to say it, I said it because SYRIZA is the Civic Opposition. You, Mr Arsenis, are not the Qualified Opposition, you are the minor party of the Greek Parliament, the last one in votes that entered the House. So I respect you, I honor you, I hear what you say, but it does not mean that you have the political weight to impose politics. The people have not given you this political weight. If he gives it to you tomorrow - I repeat, democracy is fortunately open and the people can always change their views - then you can exercise your policy. Today, however, the size to which the Greek people have assigned you is to come and say your opinion and not to impose it. With regard to environmental organisations now - I am not putting them all in the same basket, others are better, others are worse - they have an agony and overreact, if you wish, or as I say, a temptational sensitivity to environmental issues. If they did not have that sensitivity, they would not be environmental organisations. Obviously, Mr Arsenis, if we could hear them, we wouldn't do anything. Let's go make wind turbines, environmental organizations say we don't. Let's go do the Greek, environmental organizations say we don't. We are going to do 'Kilada Hills', environmental organizations say not to do so and so on. So, what is the work of a legally elected government? To make the necessary weightings and compositions, the way the Greek people want. We respect their agony. We believe that we have put all the safeguards that our legislation has in order not to jeopardise the environment. If the environment is at risk from poor decisions of our own, there is preventive control over the Council of State, as I have explained many times to you. Although the Council of State is mistaken in the adoption of the Presidential Decree, there is also the possibility of appealing to the Council of State or to the European courts. So our institutional framework has all those possibilities, if we really are going to break and destroy the NATURA regions, if we are so bad and bewildered people, to stop us. I can assure you, however, that I am clear - the fact that you are shouting, that you support every call from every environmental organisation, that you are opposed to any investment of any kind at any point in the State, no matter what it may be, it makes you no more friends of the environment than we do in your imagination. Because we, who have the responsibility of government, firstly want the growth that we will bring to Greece to be sustainable, namely not destroying the environment, but living in harmony with the environment. That is the concept of the modern development of economies, that is what we are serving and that is what we want. You will see that when the works are completed in the Greek, you who appealed with some environmental organisations there to stop this investment, when you see how beautiful this place will have become, you will be ashamed and you will not be able to explain to your children why you went to this court. It's gonna be so nice. It's gonna be so friendly in the environment. So, we hear you, we respect you, but at the moment - no one will become tomorrow - the Greek people have not elected you to impose politics. Now, I want to make a summary of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, to explain exactly how we have arrived here, how our fellow citizens listen to it and to close the sitting. First of all, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, publicly. My dear colleague, it was our cooperation to get here today, I think, exemplary and thank you really, because you worked hard personally to make the bill. I have to tell our fellow citizens how we got here. We founded the Legislative Committee headed by Professor George Dellis, whom I also want to publicly honour for his unprofitable offer to the state with this bill. We have set up the Inter-Governmental Committee of all the relevant ministries. It all happened a year ago. There have been many meetings of both the Legal Committee and the Inter-Governmental Committee in order to get this draft law to be publicised. In public consultation this bill caused very great interest, so it finally ended up with about five hundred pages of comments from our Greek fellow citizens on the articles of the bill. Many of these comments were taken into account and thus the original draft of the public consultation with the final draft bill in the Greek Parliament had considerable differences, according to the comments made in the public consultation. In other words, we have honoured our fellow citizens by making use of their proposals and by giving them the opportunity to participate actively in the drafting of this draft law. We then came to Parliament and to bodies hearing, I think we had one of the records, Mr President, by institutions. We have heard twenty-eight bodies hearing about this bill. We have received a lot from the institutions and incorporated them into our final text. We withdrew an article in 192, due to the objection of EADESY and of some parties, we transferred Articles 189 and 190 after the observations of the Chambers, we changed articles as to how GEOTE and so on. Let me not list them. This was one of our ways of showing society that we did not want to legislate in secret and unspoken manners, but we wanted to take into account the factors expressed in this House. We have done the same with the comments of the parties. We have dismantled the dialogue in the committees. All the Members who wanted to speak, everyone spoke. I tried to speak, after all my colleagues had finished their speeches in the committees, and I tried to answer all the questions, which were very well raised to get to plenary. I must inform you in plenary that fifty-six Members have spoken. It's a big number for a bill. We have spent two days of great dialogue in this bill, and here we have had the opportunity to hear all the views. Why am I saying that? Because I believe that this way of legislating, which respects parliamentary times, respects parliamentary procedures, respects the public debate, allows bodies to participate, gives the opportunity to experts, as we have recommended, to protect us from potential errors, is a good way of legislating on a matter that ultimately goes far beyond the time mandate of this Government, in the sense that public procurement affects almost all of the economy and many of the projects, which will start and be awarded under this law, will be built and spent by the Greek State, many years after today. So it's a bill, which had to have exhaustive public dialogue, it had to have exhaustive public control, and that's what we tried to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u420	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u421	I'm closing, Mr. President. With regard to the objection that I have heard from both Mr Spirtzi and the rapporteur here in terms of increasing the limit to 30 000, I think that there has been no great fuss - the truth is - which shows that in fact everyone understands that this was a useful tool. But we want you to know what we're doing. We are indeed increasing the limit of direct awards from 20,000 to 30,000, but we are reducing from 60,000 to 30,000 the obligation to post the relevant award on the Internet. So, yes, we are giving the opportunity for a higher percentage of direct awards, to run the projects more quickly, especially in the municipalities that are too late, but on the other hand, we post them, so that there is nothing secret and that they are all easily accessible to public control and the last Greek citizen, who wants - and rightly so - to check where his money is going. Because, in the end, this money is neither the Prime Minister nor the democrats, nor the regional authorities, but it is the Greek citizens who must be kept transparent, they must be spent with respect, but they must be spent effectively. Because only if they are spent effectively will they bring back benefits, similar to this expenditure, and possibly gains more than expenditure, which is what is called for. That was our intention. I want to be honest. The aim of compensating transparency with speed, efficiency and ensuring procedures is not always easy, because sometimes these two authorities - both of them are important authorities - come to some kind of conflict. This bill is trying to find the balance, trying to find the point where one does not rival and is not counteracting the other. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in practice, as is the case with life, particularly in politics, it will be judged. But - with this I am closing down - our very high potential and speed of absorption of European funds, as I have tabled to the committee, the European Commission itself has certified it for these months that we have taken the lead of the Ministry of Development and Investment and has placed us in second place in second place throughout the European Union. The greater implementation of the public investment programme both in its national and co-financed strands, which exceeded EUR 11 billion, from the day Greece joined the European Economic Community until now, is, I believe, a strong credential for having both the availability and the possibility of being effective. And the results of the Development Bank, which I have also submitted to you in the Committee of the Regions, show that in these eighteen months the Development Bank has been transformed from something that would be created, a shell, in something that acts, it produces, produces products, interferes in an economy and is recognized by DG ECFIN in the official report on Greece, with the first and only in our history reference to the actions of the Greek Development Bank. That shows that we're on the right track. In any case, however, if we have a mistake and something is not working, here we will be, explain what went wrong, because it's definitely not all done well. I would like, at the close of this sitting, to thank all the colleagues who participated in this debate. It was tempting, it was exhausting, but I believe that in the end something good will come about for the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, it is one of the most important legislations that have passed over the last two years. As the Minister said, it will regulate the entire investment system for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is hereby concluded: 'Modernisation, simplification and reform of the regulatory framework for public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions on development, infrastructure and health'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on Article 219 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote in principle, on Articles 15 and 219 and on Amendment 776/45 of the draft law by the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and its party MPs. I will not read the list of signatories to the two applications. In view of the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure and there is indeed one. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u423	Repeated adjournment. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall vote on one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u424	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 15 and 219 and on the amendment number 776/45 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u425	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged for the minutes and are in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament Department of Stenography and Practices]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u426	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. At the beginning of the bill 298 Members voted. In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. No one voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 15 passed 298 Members. In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. No one voted. Article 15 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 219 passed 298 Members. In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 140 Members voted against. No one voted. Article 219 was therefore accepted by a majority. The amendment with a general number 776 and a special number 45 voted 298 Members: In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 119 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 21 MPs. The amendment, by a general number 776 and a special 45, was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u427	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the articles, amendments and the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u428	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Modernisation, simplification and reform of the regulatory framework of public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions for development, infrastructure and health’, was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and as a whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u429	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u430	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-04-S1-commons.u431	With the consent of the House at 22.41' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 5 March 2021 and 09.00' on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny (a) discussion of the topical and urgent question to the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Health, Education and Religious Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Labour and Social Affairs, Civil Protection, Environment and Energy and Culture and (b) topical questions.
