ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION: According to Parliament's approval of 6-7-2021, PNI's minutes were ratified by the Bureau on Tuesday 6 July 2021 with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] (a) 'Furthermore, the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland'. (b) ‘Currency of the Agreement amending the Agreement for the Transfer and Mutualisation of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that this Wednesday, July 7th, 2021, the question will be debated under No 924/5-7-2021. The first question under number 924/5-7-2021 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Repeal of the Violation Centre for Reception and Identification (CYT) and creation of a new structure for asylum seekers in Chios'. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. A few days ago I visited Chios, Minister. Then I'll go to Lesvos and Samos. These are the islands that they have known for many years to assume responsibility - a disproportionate responsibility - for refugees. I went first of all to the structure of VIAL, which is, as I have been assured, to close. The commander, a noble man, offered me a tour of the structure. I refused to do so because I think this structure should be closed. You are not visiting a structure that is imminent for closure. Then I went to Challenge. I spoke to the president of the community and other local actors. They demand the shutdown of the Vial, they demand that a locker be put in. I have also been told that farmers, who are a majority of the people of Challenge, have not actually received their allowances. They have only received for 2016. I am expected - and I have been told - to receive for 2019. I wonder when they'll get for 2017, 2018 and 2020? Then I went to the Tholos area where the superstructure is planned to be built in two hundred twenty acres. It is a preached archaeological site of great natural beauty with a planned investment of Cardamylite Shipowner Tsakos, who has assured that if the structure takes place, he will withdraw the investment. And of course this area is an area that was an old school property and has reached the municipality. I met representatives of the local communities of the Vrodada, Sykada, Lagada, Kardamlos. Everyone is aggregated against the creation of the structure. The next day I visited Metropolitan. And so is he. I must confess to you for the first time that I have been able to see such a consensus, from the Metropolitan to the Left. The Hirots do not refuse to assume their share of responsibility. You know there's a decision of the municipal council that accepts the creation of a structure of five hundred people for reception and identification. They are not evading their responsibility. What they ask is justice and equal treatment with other Greeks. So I ask you: what is the timetable for the final closure of the VIAL? Secondly, what will you eventually do with your plans to create a superstructure in the Tholos region? Aren't you concerned about the total opposition of the land society? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. The Minister for Immigration and Asylum will answer Mr. Panagiotis Metarakis. Mr. Metarakis, good morning. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Colleague, for visiting Chios and looking forward to your visit to Lesvos and Samos to see for yourself the great difference that now exists in migration. As we are currently closing two years since the 2019 elections, I cannot say that the government has now managed to regain control of the immigration crisis. We set two targets, first of all, with a substantial reduction in the flow of resources. Flows in the islands in the last 12 months have decreased by 96%. Secondly, we have set the objective of drastically limiting the impact of the crisis on the local communities throughout the country and from a hundred and twenty-one structure we have had, today, are operating thirty-six. Our islands have been decongested without the pressure of mainland Greece, without increasing the presence of refugees and migrants in the large urban centres. Our aim in the islands is to maintain the low flows, to close the old structures, to create a structure at every point of entry, which has been data for many decades and to offer a decent living conditions, on the one hand, a sense of security that both the beneficiaries and our staff and local communities are asking for. We're always working with local government first and second degrees. If you see the decision 643/2019 of the Municipality of Chios, we have fulfilled all our obligations. They asked us to police the border. You got it. They asked us to reduce the flow. You got it. We've been asked for decongestion. On the day of the 2019 elections in Chios there were a thousand nine hundred and seventy-eight people in the Viale. Today is three hundred seventy-eight. Huge decongestion. VIAL is almost empty and in a few weeks we also close the apartments that have two hundred and eighty people today. Vial's gonna be closed, it's going to be attributed to the municipality. When will Vial close? As soon as it opens up a new structure, because it is clear - it says the city council itself - that there cannot be a reception structure, because that would create the phenomena that we experienced in 2015. We were asked by the city council to strengthen the policing. We hired a hundred sixty border guards. He asked us to support the hospital. We made twenty-five beds. From that point on, the municipal council's decision asks the government to place the place. The dome first is public property. They've been in the real estate service books for decades. The City of Chios has no titles. All he presented is a 2020 sworn certificate, a few days before the Stock Exchange. The President of the local village himself in his own statement said that he is municipal, while he has been with official registration for decades in the state property office. It has been approved by the Central Archaeological Council for intervention, it has been licensed from the Forestry, so there is all the licensing. I'm going to ask you a question about your dentistry. You who know Chios - why are you from Chios - where do you propose this new structure to be? Don't tell me wherever the local society says, because the local society, by decision of the municipal council, assigns this choice to the government. You in the Opposition and want to sound good to everyone, come to Stepma, Mr. Kamine, and tell us to close Vial and where to get the new structure. I'd be happy to hear something specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kamines has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister mentioned us numbers. There has indeed been an improvement in the situation, first of all because of the pandemic and, secondly, because Turkey's port services are cooperating. But that is not a given at all. That is why, while you spoke at the outset of a thousand eight hundred people, you predict feeding for three thousand people and with the possibility of increasing it by 100%, that is, six thousand people. The structures you are building on the islands and the structures you are planning in the dome are structures - 'acordion', which will remain with very few people as the situation is normal, but when the crisis breaks, what we have seen will happen. Boats will come which will disembark massly people who will remain in these structures. What does this script mean? It means that Turkey will no longer cooperate and as long as it does not cooperate, it will expel the world to the shores of our islands and of course will not accept any returns. The PRECFs you are going to create there will have thousands of people, that is to say, we will find ourselves in the same situation as we were in the period of crisis and in the period immediately followed. So there is an intrinsic contradiction in all this. We are not just talking about the period of regularity. We are talking about what is very likely to happen, namely that you are going to the islands and especially the structure for which we are talking about over-structure. That is why you have made it a structure - 'order'. This is precisely what the government's impending attitude to the new pact is planned to sign, the new pact on immigration and asylum in the European Union. As I said there, finally what we will end up with is that, in relation to the rest of Europe, Greece will be a second-speed country, because there will continue to be 'Dublin' and in relation to Greece and Europe, islanders will be third-class citizens, because they will be permanent prisons of people. That's the bitter truth. You are blackmailing the Hie People because you say that the structure in BIAL will only be abolished after it has opened up a new structure and, secondly, the VAT will be reduced only if there are structures in the islands. You asked me where the new structure would take place. First of all, this is your responsibility. But secondly, that is what the Chiots have answered you. You have been told that you will first be committed to the population and the functioning of the structure in the measures proposed by the municipal council and not just by decision 619, but there are decisions to follow. First you will commit that it will only be a reception and identification centre with a maximum of five hundred people, exactly what they represent in the population of Chios, as in all the rest of Greece, i.e. 1% of the population. The Hilates, Minister, and the other islanders, what they are asking for are something very simple: justice and equal treatment. I went and saw a world of puncture. I talked to the businessmen. I talked to the tourist business on Karfas. There's a desert image. Above all, however, there is a sense of abandonment, there is the feeling that Chios is now where it once was an island that was ageing, now actually a prison is being held for the rest of Europe. It's not worth this luck on our island, as it's not worth the rest of the islands. However, here we will also be to see what will happen with the new pact, whether Greece will be able to demand and ultimately impose relocations in other countries and on asylum legislation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamine's dentology has shown the deadlock of the easy opposition, because he recognises the improvement in immigration, forgetting the contribution of the Port House to our country's attempt to reduce flows according to International Law, but on the other hand he referred to the risks that may exist in the future. That's what I'll agree with. We cannot rest assured that there will be no risks of migratory flows again. We are a country that is at the European Union's eastern border. As you have rightly said, it is our responsibility and I assume my responsibilities in the government and when I was in the opposition. I will say that we need to create a closed structure at the entry point so that we do not have any flows and that we do not have the burden that Chios experienced in 2015. We're not talking about superstructure. We talked about overstructure in 2019 in a completely different environment, when we talked about structures that are more than double what is actually planned. What we are planning today is in no way superstructure. Mr. Kamine, when I was a member of the opposition, I said it. I've told my brochure about the need to create a closed structure in Chios. I am not hiding either in the opposition or in the government. I'm taking over my responsibilities. I don't want to be adorable to everyone. I want to be useful to my place. From there on, the new structure will be a hundred acres, not two hundred so many as you said. The general population planned is for five hundred eighty people. PRECKA is for five hundred seventy. Because we want to close the apartments that were not in the election planning, because they are asking us for Chios society itself not to have a place for asylum seekers, there is also a place for special groups. All this together is not a superstructure. In terms of feeding, of course, we are obliged to have a forecast if an extraordinary event occurs in 2023, in 2024, in 2025, in order to allow for feeding. Can you imagine there are people who don't eat, can you imagine the great responsibility we'd have for the country? So that's our design. For the "adordon" you say, do you remember what happened in 2015 when the structure in Mersidium was not enough? The square is filled, souda is filled, filled with the whole island. Is that what you want us to live again? At that time, tourism was destroyed, then the island was abandoned, not today that there is an absolute order. These structures are part of a strategy. The old logic, the SYRIZA model that you're going to support, is whoever comes into Athens right away, to refill Athens as filled in 2025-2019, but the problem isn't where they're going. You raised the subject of justice. You forget that closed controlled structures have a catalytic role in reducing flows. The point is not to enter thousands or millions as they entered in 2015 and simply to share them. The question is that our country is not the gateway to the poachers, and that requires six pillars of action, border guarding, rapid procedures, deportations. You know that in the last 12 months we have more deportations and refunds than we have new arrivals. Closed control centres are a key part of this strategy. After you're going to Samos, you can go see the new closed control center that's just a few weeks to work. The control of NGOs, the reduction of privileges, is part of a model. Chios tourism will be strengthened with the airport that starts after decades to be built - the competition is over - with all the infrastructure projects that were left behind. Finally, I will make two comments. Firstly, on the issue of compensation by the New Democracy Government with Law No 4662/2020 under Article 195, it has now introduced a permanent compensation mechanism, as promised by election and paid to the Municipality of Chios a total of EUR 2,5 million, of which EUR 774 000 for residents' compensation. The state has transferred money to local government. As to the pact, Moria was not created because of the new pact. It was created because of the lack of a pact, because our country has been caught in Dublin and we have no support from anyone, and because of this we have been alone in the major crises. What Greece is seeking - and we still have a long way to go for the new pact - is a compulsory, permanent solidarity mechanism so that once again our islands and Greece as a whole and the countries of the Mediterranean are in store for souls, as was the case with the strategy that some in Chios, especially the Left parties, repeat to relive the chaos of 2015 instead of the order that currently prevails in Chios. I am tabling the relevant decision of the Chios Municipal Council, which we have honoured - a point. What Chios requested in 2019 happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-07-S1-commons.u11	With the consent of the House at 9.43 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 8 July 2021 and 10.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: legislative work on the agenda which has been distributed.
