ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 7-4-2021, PI's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PI's minutes of Wednesday, 7 April 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain and other provisions’.]] We are on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle of the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Following the Cooperation Protocol between the Greek Fire Service and the Cyprus Fire Service, in accordance with the Agreement of 4 June 2003 between the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation between the Firehouses of the two countries in matters of their competence’. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health". The above bills were adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to ratification for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The debate and vote of the two Conventions will be held in accordance with their order of entry on the agenda. That is to say, the Convention of the Ministry of Civil Protection will be preceded by the Convention of the Ministry of Health and the Convention of the Ministry of Health. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. Regarding the Convention of the Ministry of Civil Protection, I would like to remind you that during the debate in committee the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Greek Solution, voted against the Communist Party of Greece and expressed the reservation in Mera25. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the two colleagues are therefore entitled to speak from the JRC and Mera25 parliamentary groups, if they so wish. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Papanastasis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like your tolerance because we do not have time in five minutes to express our objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u4	Okay, you'll have tolerance on the subject, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u5	It's about the Fire Corps.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u6	All right, but not put it now and whatever we want. Of course, the Member is free to speak, but also to follow the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The advocacy of the Cooperation Protocol between Greece's Fire Corps and the Cyprus Fire Service on issues of competence, such as inter-education, does not simply concern a cooperation between two simple educational institutions. It concerns cooperation between two mechanisms, which, beyond their main work, means and from the Euro-Union framework which defines their operation, emits them into the repressive mechanisms. In other words, the Fire Force with the current legislative framework is involved in subsidiary and with the Port respectively in the dominant repressive role that the police have against the struggles of the People's Movement. For these roles, fire personnel are trained and let them be absolutely irrelevant to their work, which is to protect the life and property of citizens, to safeguard the natural environment infrastructure of the country from the dangers caused by natural, technological and other disasters. Furthermore, the use of the Fire Corps in the mechanism to suppress the struggles of our fellow citizens is something that is virtuously virtuous about the social nature of its mission. In about 20 days at least, the anti-nuclear period begins. As, then, every year - and all the governments are doing so - we will hear statements on the preparedness of the firefighting of any burning challenge. This dramatically expressed readiness was seen in the great destructive fire in Matti, but also in all the great fires of the previous years from 1993 to our days. The personnel of the Fire Corps have been called upon to deal with these situations structured in an outdated and completely inefficient structure, which has been deported by an old-fashioned organogram, which has been based since the 1970s, which is of course a dramatic distance from the possibility of meeting today's real needs to permanent staff. In addition, a large part of the firefighting staff serves and acts out of business planning. Today there are three categories of staff: the permanent firefighters and low grades of general and special duties, the five-year obligation and seasonal firefighters with a six-month period of employment. With figures last year, the total number of all this is about sixteen and a half thousand. It's important to report that one of them around the thousand seven hundred is out of business planning. In other words, they serve the fourteen fire-fighting services of the private airports of the ‘FRAPORT’ and ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’, the eleven fire-fighting steps of the private roads and the fixed stops of the seven war airports, the state airport of Heraklion and the six port fire-fighting stations. In all of this, let us add the ethics of the personnel serving in the operational part, such as the unpaid overworking and the lack of decent care during operations in forest fires, the unacceptable way of transferring personnel to aid, the treatment of incidents mainly in island areas, the choice of unsuitable rest areas after fire-front interventions. The Government of New Democracy has upgraded civil protection to a State Secretary, with Mr. Hardalis first State Secretary. Unfortunately, however, this upgrade, which, if you wish, and a positive approach to civil protection, did not mean at the same time upgrading of the structure, orientation and services provided with the benefit of the people and the protection of forest ecosystems. In addition, upgrading to a State Secretary in conjunction with the creation of a NATO office in Civil Protection, cooperation with the European Police, the arms of interrogator firearms, secret funds, perhaps are elements that are not relevant to the conversion of civil protection at European level, in the context of the internal security strategy of the European Union, into a covert repression mechanism. We, as a Communist Party of Greece, and on the occasion of today's debate, are beating a risk bell to the government and the other parties, but also to the Greek people as a whole. It is necessary to give priority to matters of fire safety and forest protection. At the heart of the attention of the positions of the Communist Party of Greece lies in protecting our people's lives from the dangers posed by the fires in the cities, at workplaces, forests, transport and other networks. Furthermore, these risks are based mainly on the implementation of anti-grassrooted policies over time by all governments. By strengthening this orientation, the working people's movement with the fire extinguisher may decisively fight for immediate issues today that are urgently faced and solved, such as the abolition of all reactionary laws adopted by the PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA governments, to go to public property in any appropriate way which has been acquired in various ways by housing cooperatives, other companies or the Church, to make a radical change and modernisation of anti-missile design and fire protection, to increase staff in the services responsible for filling the necessary organic positions in the Fire and Forestry Office, to implement a modern salary that will take into account both current and current life costs, to implement a five-day working week with full compensation for overtime, nights, excellence and holidays, as provided for in the rest of the government budgets that have not been provided for by the resurrectories and permanent governmental commitments which have not been made in the past. We support the fight to guarantee the right to strike. It can also be carried out by firefighters on the same conditions as the civil servants of the firefighting firefighting officers and, in general, by civil servants, and through the safeguarding of specific conditions which will enable them to exercise them and which will not become practically inapplicable. We support the strengthening of competent fire protection forces by the appropriate means and the necessary funds to improve infrastructure, technical means, particularly on land, by strengthening and renewing the fire-fighting equipment in fire-fighting vehicles and modern means for port fire-fighting stations. The organisation of the country's fire safety at the level of structures, infrastructure, equipment, design and treatment should be of exclusive concern and responsibility for the state through the Fire Corps. There must be no involvement of private, non-governmental organisations and also of local authorities. To change the way the fire extinguishers are trained radically through a three-year training plan, including practical training. Education should be carried out by making use of modern scientific knowledge and all necessary means in suitable buildings, which is not currently the case. The integrated protection and management of forests on the basis of people's needs and the effective armouring of fire safety and the general protection of urban centres from natural and technological risks, whether or not it requires a different way of development, presupposes the way of labour power which, with the social ownership of all the concentrated means of production, industry, tourism, forests, in general land and natural resources, is the only real conditions that can ensure the balanced education of the working person in nature and the development of production on the basis of popular prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u8	I hope you're satisfied with tolerance. The special rapporteur from the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. The ratification of the Protocol we are debating today closes a circle after almost eighteen years of loose end. So we can say that today the 2003 Agreement between the relevant Ministries of Greece and Cyprus is growing. The truth is that, as I have said in committee, the time taken to get to today is negatively impressive and that is why all governments are responsible, so we are talking about a case where potassium is late rather than has ever gone too far. In any case, however, it is a positive step and we will address it positively. In any case, we fulfil our international contractual obligation and at the same time vote on something that can only be beneficial if it is properly organised and executed. At this point too, we would ask for all possible efforts to be made and for all practical support to be given to ensure that this cooperation does not remain on paper. Since iron is stuck between Greece and Cyprus, the issues of coordination and co-responsibility are probably much less than with other states, we hope very much, in other words, before the high-risk summer season for both states, to see the first actions related to the implementation of the Protocol. But I will repeat, Minister, that you should make sure that the voluntary firefighters of the Fire Corps, who remained at home in the course of the 'Medea' bad weather, are returned. As long as the "Medea" was in the forefront of its destructive demolition throughout the country and the Fire Corps were on guard and would receive thousands of calls, why were volunteer firefighters removed from the stations and from the staircases that served and remained for one quadrant on home standby? According to namely complaints by trade unions in the daily press, daily the trade union organs of the Firehouse show a lack of staff, reduced shifts due to health restrictions, but no one speaks of the two thousand two-two-two-two-two-two-two-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-le. They state that volunteers remain unclaimed, while at the same time the services are staff licences. Due to a workload, the fatigue of the few fire extinguishers is huge and all this will necessarily lead to the downgrading of the services provided by the Fire Corps to society, with what this entails. In fact, volunteer firefighters are the only official recognised and certified fire brigade and rescue volunteers, equipped with a special status card issued by the Fire brigade, insured in the event of an accident and subject to the civil liability provisions of the State, as is the case for permanent personnel of the Fire brigade, the Hellenic Police and the Port Body. With full equipment, therefore, due to the donation of the "Stavros Niarchus" Foundation, it is the only category of citizens who serve in a Security Corps who aim to protect the citizens' lives and property voluntarily. When the "Medea" erupted, you did not use the two thousand two hundred volunteers, but you decided to help the Army. In my reply, they invoke the health risk. Did the Army not run the same health risk, which does not even have the training in question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u10	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u11	At least make good use of the volunteers in the summer season. Greece will not last after the economic and health disaster and one summer with fires and natural disasters. We often see - densely the local fire service to voice concerns about substation, merciful means and equipment obsolete. I am referring to problems relating to fire-fighting and the fire-fighting needs of urban guards. Fights are given and lost to secure an essential fire-fighting vehicle. This is the image that can't leave anyone unconscious. And in view of the anti-nuclear period, we see the insecurity gigantic. Also, you need to bring the fire extinguisher close to the training, starting from the primary school, not through city excursions at the local fire station. These are fireworks that are not effective. Firefighting must also actively claim as a central agency and undertake projects from European education programmes, draw up programmes for interventions in the school environment, with targeted lessons and assimilation exercises in the largest classes. Urban populations with reconstruction and seismicity face increased risks. It takes a special education for the citizens too early. For forest and field fires, the flooding in the countryside also corresponded to the people in the country. Some elementary things should be learned by children from an early age and know how to react at an unfortunate moment. And that's because knowledge saves lives. Even the heated profit computer would conclude that the cost of education is much lower than the economic losses that a society suffers from ignorance of proper behaviour in the face of such risks. So let it become the beginning of the new generation, to build a culture of collective education on some very basic issues that can make a difference between life and death. I shall conclude, Minister, with something that I consider to be very important. I want your attention. You should also press for better imprinting of forest maps - with all this ball of the first post that has arisen - because this situation has a negative impact on your ministry as well on the issue of fire protection. The fields and pastures intervening between forest tumors and do not disrupt the forest ecosystem can function protectively as antinuclear zones. If, therefore, forest maps are not corrected on the basis of reality, if people end up losing their properties and abandoning them uncircumcised to unregulated vegetation, these de facto anti-nuclear zones will disappear. This can cause very big harm. Furthermore, farmers who guard the mountains and forests of the regions will have no reason to climb the mountains and lose an informal and elementary frontal. They also work as guards that are valuable to us as long as the Fire Corps is not reinforced by personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement has so far called for the floor, Mr Kamines, who will now take the floor. Mr. Kamin, you can come to the Step or speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u13	Can I talk to you too? I'm a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u14	Parliamentary representatives have always been able to speak. Although another colleague wants to speak as a parliamentary representative, he will take the floor. Mr Kamine, you have the floor and we wish Mr Scandalides, who is sick and indulging.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President, and on behalf of Mr Scandalidis. We all wish him 'permanently'. Undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years due to climate change, the value of civil protection and urban and rural resilience has emerged from all kinds of natural and man-made disasters. We have also seen this with the occasion of the current epidemiological crisis, with its enormous and diverse consequences, from health to our economy and institutions, where citizens' confidence in the state, local authorities, political staff and our fellow citizens are being tested. We are now aware that the dangers are not only those we have known in the past decades, but also take new, much more threatening proportions. We have also seen how interlinked today’s world is. We saw its contradictions manifesting rapidly and unfolding their consequences with exponential intensity. Because of globalisation, the national borders have come into play over the last few decades. Capitals, goods and people were increasingly moving faster and faster. But when it was found how much human movements have contributed to the spreading of the pandemic, the borders have reorientated not only national boundaries but also within countries, local administrative boundaries, even between the neighborhoods of a city. The pandemic has come to impose strict treatment on states and local communities within their borders, but also on individual people in their homes and in terms far more stringent than before. But, at the same time, we have seen the rapid development of human resources in order to manage the problems of such a range. The common basis of this development is always international cooperation. When international is the threat, international must also be the answer. The same is true of the consequences of climate change. She doesn't even know a border either. Its consequences are manifested throughout the world, with the result that the answer to the great challenges that it poses to us requires that the whole of humanity coexist. We could therefore not disagree with the need to develop our cooperation on civil protection issues with the Republic of Cyprus. Mr Secretary, as I have had the opportunity to point out at the committee meeting, at the moment the National School for the Management of Crisis and Risk Management, which is provided for by Law 4662, exists only on paper. You were honest to admit during the discussion in the committee that the planning of the above National School has gone back largely because of the pandemic. Indeed, a series of delegated provisions has not been adopted. I also intended today to insist on the issues of the training and retraining of the Fire Corps. But I am tempted to deal with the National Crisis Management Mechanism as a whole, on the basis of something you said in committee. In committee, you spoke to us about the creation of an interministerial centre, which, I admit, prompted me to be curious. You said, as I read in the Minutes, that each ministry and the Prime Minister will have their own point of reference, so that at the time of the crisis management we do not have any problems with regard to the response, the time and the real facts, whatever a modern country needs to deal with all that we all conclude that they are coming. So you are creating yet another great structure, which will be equipped with responsibilities and staffed with staff. As far as school is concerned, I am not optimistic that in the near future we will also see this center. At the Interministerial Centre, the Prime Minister and each Minister will have their own point of reference in managing a crisis. What does that mean to them? That Mr. 4662 is also officially suspended? In many respects, whether it concerns the school or the National Crisis Management Centre, but also in others, L.4662/2020 has remained inactive. Therefore, the opportunity to assimilate its regulations by the staff of the firefighting firefighting, the training concerned, as well as the determination of any arrhythmias and malfunctions seems to be referred to the Greek bells. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are voting in favour of the ratification of the Cooperation Protocol with the Republic of Cyprus on the training of fire-fighting staff for the reasons I mentioned at the outset, but we are expressing serious reservations about the real subject of Greek training, when the National Crisis Management School and the National Crisis Management Mechanism for the time seems to remain at the level of simple declarations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u16	And we thank Mr. Kamine. Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Giannis Ragousis, has the floor on the side of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of this ratification, because, after 2017, this Cooperation Protocol has been prepared. This is a cooperation that is well advanced for both Cyprus and Greece. Of course, given the fact that Mr Hardalias is here and because we have already approached mid-April, and because, on several occasions, our rapporteur, Mrs Kafantari, has put a series of questions and doubts very seriously we have on the overall policy pursued in the field of civil protection, and especially on the question of firefighting, I think that this is an appropriate opportunity, Mr Hardalia, to say in plenary what is going to be done with this famous miracle - a revolution on civil protection, which, yes, has been voted on, but which is still essentially inactive, since there are not already approved and signed for all those regulations that the law itself provides for, so that it can be implemented. In other words, we are basically at the beginning of the new anti-nuclear period and the country is with a legal regime which, in your opinion, has had many problems in the past and you would change it to bring exactly the new data in this area. Secondly, today we are in the Greek Parliament's plenary after another completely inconsistent decision of the Government to reopen the country's high school, Mr Hardalia, for just ten days before Easter, and, in fact, a decision, which, according to everything notified, has neither been inconsistent with the agreement, the unanimous opinion of the experts of the Committee on Liquidology, nor does it obey the, as I said before, simple logic of opening the high school for only ten days, without much of the teachers having been vaccinated, without the additional measures that should have been taken to make this opening safe and, in particular, when this opening is going to take place in conditions, as described by the relevant statistics, the development of the pandemic much worse than the one that was when the schools closed down. In other words, schools have closed down with much less cases, with much less intubated, with a greater increase in pandemic and are opening up in conditions three times worse than the ones that prevailed when the schools closed down. Then don't ask yourself why the Greek people have lost their trust in the government, because, in the conscience of society, there is no government anymore. The Greeks and Greeks, in their overwhelming majority, consider that there is no government for the management of the pandemic and all their hopes at the moment and all their glimpse has been based exclusively on the scientific community. These scientists are watching, these scientists are listening when they, too, do not shake their credibility with constant contradictions. So there is this issue, which, in our view, cannot go through any of this, because it is really one day today that all the children who have children in high school are watching this new and totally - I repeat - unjustified development. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. We are completing the cycle of the Parliamentary Representatives with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Ms Maria - Eleni Soukouli - Viliali.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, for the placement of my fellow Parliamentary representative by SYRIZA, the person responsible for answering is here, our Minister, Mr Chardalias. Of course, we also heard the Prime Minister say yesterday about all the adjustments that need to be made slowly, including the fatigue that already exists in the social body. With regard to the ratification of the Cooperation Protocol between the Greek Fire Corps and the Cyprus Fire Service, I would like to make a comment, Mr President and colleagues. I believe that every initiative that promotes cooperation between states is beneficial and useful, particularly in an area of key importance, which is about the supreme good of human life, with our natural wealth, but also with the property of citizens. We are now aware, as a result of climate change, that extreme natural phenomena will be intensified. In fact, there are too many experts who are now talking about data on some of these weather phenomena that we have experienced as extreme and more common in the year. This is why we need better education and educational preparation of human resources, but also the exchange of peak know-how. The executives of the Fire Corps and of Greece and Cyprus deserve the appropriate supplies to perform their work with absolute effectiveness and with absolute success. Greece and Cyprus will always stand side by side to face many different risks. This is the power of Hellenism: unity and solidarity, unity and cooperation. And let alone this is timely and now at all levels than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. And we will close the debate on ratification of the Cooperation Protocol with the Minister's placement. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following my earlier introduction to the Public Administration, Public Order and Justice Committee, for this draft law, which we are bringing to the vote, the Protocol on Cooperation between the Greek Fire Corps and the Cyprus Fire Service, and the signing of your already in 2003 in the Cooperation Agreement between the then Minister of Public Order, Mr Chrysochide, and the then counterpart of the Minister of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, I am now in favour of the necessity to vote in plenary session, as it is clear that the lack of a framework for the coordination between the two countries' fire-fighting services, which prevented the best, but also more effective - we must admit - to the management of risks and the provision of services specific to the citizens of the European Union as a result of them. Although its importance is obvious and obvious, I can only recommend the adoption of this Protocol, since the two-way exchange of information, experience and know-how on staff, specialist and non-existent, serving in the fire services of our two countries, through the ongoing systematic and institutionally now anticipated educational and educational processes, will inevitably contribute and seal the tightening of relations between us. Undoubtedly, but also overall, the introduction of this capacity for education will contribute towards improving the overall operational response and the quality of the services provided by the personnel in the fire-fighting services of both countries at a time when it is clear that climate change, as well as all other technological and other threats, are increasing exponentially, now affecting the whole planet, disrupting the national economies and determining the quality of the lives of the world's livelihoods, our ecosystems and the countries of today, but even more of the societies of tomorrow. Furthermore, as a guardian of the fundamental and constitutional goodwill of its obligations to guarantee security, human life, property, natural wealth and cultural heritage of the country has, as you quite rightly say, introduced Law 4662/2020, a modern one - we will insist on it and argue below - a flexible and effective system of risk management and crisis management through the establishment of the National Mechanism for Risk Management and Management, which will also be a useful component of this Protocol, by increasing the systemic upgrading in relation to crisis management and the protection of citizens from both countries. In addition, I would like to stress that from the anticipated close cooperation of the Fire Service in our two countries, it will be established and ensured through the exchange of information, but also operational practices, experiences and knowledge, the adoption of good practices, which will promote better and more effective cooperation in any operational, scientific and educational area as necessary. With regard to what the honourable Members and representatives of the parties have now tabled, not so much in relation to the Protocol, but in relation to the general functioning of the Fire Corps and the National Mechanism, I shall have to repeat a few things that I have said in committee. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the reports on the repressive mechanism of the Fire Corps do not honor the Fire Corps, but afflict it. I want to tell you as I really feel it, because the Fire Corps is not trained to suppress popular mobilisations. The Fire Corps is there to save lives and there is absolute gratitude for the men and women of the Fire Corps for all they have offered with self-sacrificing and self-determination under difficult circumstances. I do not think there is any point of reference in fact, because with Law 4662/2020 we came a year ago and laid the foundations for the reorganisation of the Fire Corps itself. But you know what? There is no magic wand that will suddenly solve everything that has not been done in decades, such as the problem there is not solved at everyone's responsibility, based on bureaucratic claws, based on dogmas which in the course proved to be not really able to provide solutions to crisis management issues. So we can't talk about old organograms. And there are not a thousand out of service for those who serve at airports because the management of these airports belongs to the 'FRAPORT'. There are a thousand hundred of our firefighters fighting for the safety of airports, so for the safety of travellers, so for the safety of tourists, so for the safety of workers, so for the Greek people themselves and the effort they make. You also say that its conversion to a Ministry was not accompanied by an upgrade. I don't want to stand on this. I won't talk about what we've done as a State Secretary or not. That remains to be proved in the course. But there is one embarrassment, something that I see in public statements in general and, if you like, there is my complaint in relation to what has been going on for several months. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] For several months now, then, everything that has been done is all that has been requested for several decades for the country and it is very important that those who have been involved, because there are experienced people who have dealt with crisis management issues, watch them with any objections and any reasonable concerns or many times with their different approaches to crisis management and risk management. The country did not have a national mechanism and had to have a national mechanism. We had the misfortune of the National Mechanism to be set up on February 4, last year, when on February 24, we were called upon as Civil Protection to face the greatest global crisis in the last century, a pandemic for which we had to coordinate the mechanism of the Ministries, the Armed Forces and all the things that the Government showed under difficult conditions with organograms that were not vertical throughout the country and we should be "driving" to be able to respond to this data. So I think they're wrong all these conversations about whether the law is inactive. And I'm going to be given a chance to explain what I mean. However, because I do not want to leave anything unanswered, in order not to be considered to be evading any reference made to the Headquarters in relation to our volunteers, any decisions taken at the Headquarters in relation to our volunteers are based solely on the application of specific health protocols in force. I will not repeat what I said in my reply to Mr Kamine's question. My respect for volunteer firefighters is timeless. I worked with them, and with Mrs Kafantaris and Mr Kamine, in positions of responsibility for local government, and I know each one of them personally. If some have deliberately misinterpreted what I have said for their own reasons, this does not change my respect for the volunteers of the Fire Corps, who will soon, in the light of the anti-nuclear period, return to their service. The volunteers themselves last year thanked us, because the issues they raised to include themselves in Law 4662/2020 and who came to "treat" other issues of many years have been overwhelmingly included. So, both on this issue and on the matter of forest maps, the government has obviously taken specific initiatives. The issue of forest maps is a complex issue, which you know better than anyone else who has been agitating the country for decades and seems to close in the coming months with the extension given by the government. It is a matter that we are very closely following, because it is clear that it affects our business data, let alone that last Sunday we were called upon to manage a fire that we are waiting for, but it seems to be directly linked to the issue of forest maps. We are not going to do this, but in any case it proved once again that the mechanism is present and in the middle of April, since at the weekend we were called on three different fires on Saturday and on a large post-night fire in Andros to lift up air, mobilize the mechanism and respond. I think the thanks of both self-government and people in the front line prove that the mechanism works, that we're there, we're in the field. I'll repeat two things. Climate change must no longer be seen as a 'cheatto', but as an absolute challenge. All the things that are happening around the world are issues that we will be called upon to deal with very soon. Unfortunately, that is the reality. The 'wildfires' you see in Spain, which I said to the committee, to Australia and to America, are the result of climate change and we will see them here too. The Flash Floods we had last August, the great flood that we had in Evia in August and we mourned people who, unfortunately, have "goded" are the issues that are coming to show up and the strangles that our country has for years, and the issue of anti-military armour, as well as anti-nuclear zones. These are issues which, with No 4662/2020, are not only healing, but we are also launching their solution in particular. So, obviously, it is the ultimate challenge to everyone, but let me repeat that it is also an absolute invitation to everyone to cooperate, to reach agreement and consensus on civil protection issues. It's time to leave behind arrhythmias, pathogens, grapplings and mistakes of decades. You don't blame us when you accuse us that in a year, in the middle of a pandemic, we did not have time to solve and heal everything that has been going on for decades now. We have taken exceptional steps this year, such as steps to modernise structures. The law is not inactive. We proceeded, set up our Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, submitted our proposal and secured an autonomous special programme from the new NSRP of nearly 780 million for civil protection alone. We have ensured a great deal of funding from the European Investment Bank for modernising and strengthening our equipment. These are all issues that are now decades in progress, making them a priority. It is no coincidence that the country has forty-five years of Canander. It is no coincidence that financial protocols have never been secured and the Fire Corps has thirty-five-year-old equipment. This figure is 17%, but it remains. Our firefighters are being called upon to assist decisively with vehicles of many decades. That's the reality. Do not blame us 'for all this all of a sudden'. All this to heal, needs an organization. We need to find the money, find the procedures and move on. Where are we now a year later? We have secured three financial protocols. We have ensured the procedures under Article 225, a programme, the 'SIPIDA' programme, which I will be very happy to present to Parliament's representatives and to all those involved in civil protection, so that we can move forward in terms of transparency and clear terms with a decision of the CSCE, as well as the issue of armaments in order to be able to move forward. Upgrade the "415" to "515", replace the "215" with the modern "515", ensure 260 million for new equipment related to the Fire Service, 102 million for project machinery related to local government I and 2, because all of them are involved in civil protection issues and must have the resources and of course human resources. So we upgrade and replace and strengthen the equipment. All these issues are very important. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the issue of the pandemic mentioned by Mr Raguss. The government's decisions - you know that from the very beginning - are based on the recommendations of our scientists, and that is the right thing to do. Our country has done well both in management, but also in the issue of vaccination, and this is internationally debatable. Our country is struggling, standing up, under unprecedented circumstances, against an asymmetric, to an unknown, to an invisible enemy. I personally have chosen to do my job and not be part of any confrontation. All that you ask me, Mr Ragosi, have been answered. They have been answered by both the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers. My job is a field job, to support the effort made, which has a certain impact on Greek citizens. In any event, in closing and taking into account all that has been said and raised in the direction of the professed importance of the cooperation protocol, I recommend its vote - which seems to have no support for the Communist Party - and for the principle of articles and the whole of this draft law by all the Governmental Representatives, reassuring you once again that the work done in Civil Protection is excellent. I would also like to call for an invitation for the next few days and for the anti-missile period, either at parliamentary committee level or at cross-party cooperation, to work together on these issues, and above all to work together on civil protection issues, because they are issues that are deeply patriotic. It's about the next generations. They're not about any government. They are about how our children, our country, our homeland will be safe and they will be shielded against everything that comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity and the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Citizens' Protection: "Following the Cooperation Protocol between the Greek Fire Corps and the Cyprus Fire Service, in accordance with the Agreement of 4 June 2003 between the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic on cooperation between the Firehouses of the two countries in matters of their competence". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u24	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u25	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Standardisation of the Cooperation Protocol between the Hellenic Fire Service and the Cyprus Fire Service, in accordance with the Agreement of 4 June 2003 between the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation between the Fire Forces of the two countries in matters of their competence’, was accepted by a majority of them on the principle, the articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health, "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health". I would like to remind you that in committee, on this bill, the New Democracy voted, a reservation was expressed by SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Greek solution while voting against the Communist Party of Greece and the Merra 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u28	Please, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor. On a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u29	About what you just announced. For the vote in committee. We did not vote against it. We have voted on the motion for a resolution. As we will again state after our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u30	I mean, you didn't vote against it. You have expressed reservations or'representations'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u31	'Paris'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u32	The 'present' is not a positive vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, a lot of trouble for nothing. I said that we in the committee indicated that we intended to vote 'the present'. You announced that we voted against. I have taken the floor for that correction. Nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u34	Okay. Corrected this, but this paper I have in front of me. Hears it from the Secretariat, and he'll fix it. It is therefore also corrected in the Minutes. So the position I read from the papers given to me by the Secretariat is changed. He did not vote against the JRC. He voted for 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u36	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u37	We made a reservation. We had not voted against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u38	So the Mera25 also became a mistake. I don't know why this happened. We'll check it out. Here are the secretariats of the House. We have been given this from the Secretariat. So your position is corrected. You did not vote against. You have made a reservation and today you will make your position on the draft law. Therefore, after this procedural and correct intervention by both Vice-President Lambroulis and you, Mrs Apatzides, will go to those who in turn I see have expressed reservations. There's been another mistake. I don't know why. They are correcting me now that the Change Movement has said that it is voting in favour, while we were given the reservation as a statement. So we go to those who have expressed reservations. I will give Mrs Agathopoulos the floor as rapporteur for SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance for five minutes. Mr Agathopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my speech to the committee, this Convention between Greece and Tunisia was signed in 2016 by the Government of SYRIZA and then the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Marda, in the very good cooperation relations between the two countries which we hope you will continue at this time. We shall be voting in favour of this Convention, although some questions we asked in committee were not answered by the present Minister. I'll repeat a few things that have been said there. Having brought this ratification to the House now at this very critical moment in time, it is important to make use of it for the benefit of our country and for Tunisia's benefit in the matter of the coronary pandemic that is the most urgent issue we have at the moment. We asked you how you intend to do it. We didn't get an answer. I shall therefore repeat our proposal because Tunisia is an African country which, like many others, does not have access at the moment to vaccines against the coronary, since the West has taken care to buy the majority of vaccines circulating on the market for its own use without any interest in what is happening elsewhere. Rich countries with 14% alone of the world population have guaranteed 53% of vaccines, that is, more than half of the total quantity of vaccine production. So nine out of ten people in seventy low-income countries are unlikely to have access to the vaccine in the next period. The same applies to Tunisia where it is intended to be vaccinated 20% of its population, not 80% and 90% that we have as a target in Greece. At the moment, however, it has secured vaccines for only 2.5% of its population. We therefore insist on the proposal by SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras to remove the vaccine patent, a proposal that has also been accepted by the Council of Europe on a proposal - an amendment by the Group of the European Left and by the World Health Organisation. But it is a proposal which does not go any further because the governments of the countries of the European Union are denying it and the government of Mr Mitsotakis. You are missed that if not all of the world can be safe at every corner of the planet, none of us can be safe. The Minister in the committee preferred not to refer to the Convention at all. To refer only to the health situation of the country where the government as a whole still considers it exceptional and has no slight mood of self-criticism for what it has done or has not done. So I asked the Minister the other day how many permanent intakes in health were made by the New Democracy Government in the pandemic. He answered me a thousand three hundred ten recruits of permanent doctors and a thousand seven hundred ten permanent nurses. Let's go see the truth. The truth is that nine hundred forty-three out of a thousand three hundred doctors concern the positions adopted on SYRIZA on 17-5-2019, that is, nothing to do with the pandemic. They frozen under the responsibility of our government for seven months to finally be adopted on 7-2-2020. As far as nurses are concerned, the permanent recruitment that has actually been completed is four hundred and fifty eight and not a thousand seven hundred. As far as the IMPs are concerned, you said that you more than doubled in a thousand four hundred thirty-three. From these thousand two hundred and twenty-two belong to the National Health System. All the above, your lies and your poaching have answered them too many times. We have responded to your creative accounting with particulars. I won't do it again now. It's not enough time. I'm just going to ask you one question. Because with seven hundred fifty tubed in today, the system has sealed up since we have a thousand four hundred thirty-three IC beds. And that is what you have to answer. I would like to close, Minister, on the subject of days, the self-test issue. We have been asking you for a long time to prescribe the tests and to make them available to the general population free of charge. Instead, you forge us as free and universal the draw system that anyone who's paid can go to make rapid test and not molecular. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. For a few days now, the famous self-test has been forcing us as another form of panacea. But eventually these are rapid test baptized self-test. To explain, and to avoid misunderstanding, our main problem is neither that they came to twenty-five instead of individual packs, nor that pharmacists lose their time to pack them. These are trade unions, let's solve them. The problem is that you have taken the package that is for workshops, exactly the one that so far had hospitals and health centers and is for use only in a specialized laboratory by qualified personnel or with the supervision of special health care, and these rapid tests you painted self-tests. And how did you do that? By simply changing the instructions from the other languages - you will reply to me - in English. However, I have here this package of directives in all the languages, French, Italian, German and Greek. I'll testify to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the three languages - and the rest of the packaging I mentioned - it says that these tests are for use only by specialists in laboratory environments or by the self-examination method under the supervision of a specialist. He says that everywhere. It also says at one point - and this you have translated, I do not know why, you may have forgotten - that it contains a substance in this tube with liquid that causes too much concern and cannot end up in the environment, drainage or surface water. It's biologically dangerous. It says it and the video of 'ROCHE'. So how do you trust that it will not end up where every citizen should not? And it is a smuggling of what you are doing because in the directives, while it says that the test procedure - in all languages - must be done by qualified staff, you fail to express this everywhere. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that you made a statement yesterday, Mr Minister, saying that there is urgent authorisation for disposal and use by the competent regulators to baptise the rapid test, self-test. Who are these competent authorities? What kind of approval is this, and how exactly is it, since the company only promotes it for professional use? How can this change in our country? We think it's dangerous, you're dangerous and you should explain and get back what you've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Following the investigation carried out, I would particularly like to thank the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, who, in his intervention at the outset, gave the parties' positions on the right basis. Thank you. Mr Lambroulis, you have the floor now on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. We would like to welcome the struggling health workers of public hospitals and the structures of primary health care in our country who were racing on the global day of health throughout the country yesterday, sending a strong signal to the government about its criminal responsibilities, claiming the necessary and realistic for the health and life of our people. They have been the ones who have fought in hospitals for over a year, beside the patients and the difficult times our people have experienced in health issues. At the same time they are at the forefront of the struggle to strengthen the public health system, for measures to protect the health and life of our people. And this is against the effort of the government over the past period to hold a cemetery silence, to fade their voices under the masks, to slander, contaminate the health struggles, to suppress with MATs, glop and tear gas in order to hide its criminal responsibilities for managing the pandemic and for converting the public health system to "COVID - system" with the result that morbidity and mortality are erupted. It did not pass on to you, gentlemen of the government, even though you were a valuable representative of SYRIZA, the political moratorium, the national understanding and the "I'll see you later". They continue the struggle and the next time, like thousands of other workers in our country, claiming public hospitals and primary health care, mass recruitment of permanent staff with equipment and infrastructure, ICU beds, private sector requisition without compensation, implementation of all necessary protection measures at work, in the mass transport, of all means of treatment and medicine, and ensuring all safe and effective vaccines for the mass and early vaccination of all our people. In this fight, the KKE was, is and will be with them. At the same time, we call on the health workers, not only, to think, but also to draw conclusions from all this tragic adventure experienced by our people in the last year with the pandemic, because this tragic situation which health workers themselves are experiencing is not a natural phenomenon. It is a result of the policy and measures of all governments so far that they see the health of the people as unacceptable costs and an obstacle to the competitiveness of business groups, the policy of marketing health and exploiting the needs of our people in health services as a field for profitable business business in the health sector, namely entrepreneurship policy, the cost-benefit criterion, the coexistence of the commercialised public health sector and the private sector, the domination of market laws. This is a policy within the framework of the strategic guidelines of the European Union and of the capital that is to be adopted by both you, gentlemen of the New Democracy Government, as well as SYRIZA and the other parties. It is precisely the implementation of this strategy that is responsible for the intact health system in our country, but also for the advanced, otherwise, health systems of the other capitalist states in the European Union, so that the people - and the Greek people - are experiencing a tragedy at this time. In this strategy, which serves the unjust, barbaric, exploiting system, which is sold and purchased, which is the criterion of how low the health of the people will be in their capital and their state, it is because the public health system, instead of developing popular needs, is limited to the limits of their misery. Instead of ensuring that everything is planned and free of charge for the health of the people is loaded on the individual responsibility and the ability of the pockets of everyone. That is why our people and people cannot expect anything beneficial from this system and the policies that support it. Furthermore, nothing can be beneficial for the two peoples, Greece and Tunisia, through the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding that has been signed since 2016 in the field of health, because it is part of a wider strategic planning at European Union level that has been created in recent years to infiltrate investments in the North African countries, in order to find a way out of funds that are ponding and at the same time to enhance the competitiveness of Euro-Union monopolies, i.e. their profitability in areas that will make them profit. In this respect, conferences, the European Union - North Africa summits, as well as contacts and agreements, such as the one we are discussing today, on a bilateral basis, using either links with countries such as Tunisia or making use of historical links with other states within the framework, but also in the implementation of the strategic objectives that have been decided and specified in specific areas, such as shipping, infrastructure, trade relations in general, financial investments and issues such as health. Just such agreements or similar agreements fall within the framework of the wider geostrategic planning, economic and political, upgrading our country's urban order, strengthening its role in the North African region, but also in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and elsewhere. This orientation was followed by the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between Greece and Tunisia, the Government of SYRIZA in 2016, with the same orientation as the Government of New Democracy for ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation. Only by this agreement, the two peoples have nothing to look forward to. This also emerges through the areas of cooperation - see in the second article of ratification - such as, for example, medicine, electronic health, research, clinical trials and goes on to say. Who, in other words, will benefit is clearly seen as not other than the businessmen in these sectors who look at such partnerships in order to enhance their profitability. Because the mutual benefits that could result from these agreements for our people and other peoples have a single condition, the abolition of the economic, social and systemic framework, that is to say, that we are experiencing today and the policies that support it and that are no longer capitalism. Mr President, as we have said before, as far as ratification of the Convention is concerned, we are voting 'at present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much Mr Lambroulis, on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece and Vice-President of the Parliament, and we will now invite the special rapporteur of the Greek Solution, Maria Athanasiou. Here, Mrs. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. This memorandum of understanding was signed in Tunisia in November 2016 and is introduced for ratification, four and a half years later, under the current epidemiological and economic conditions. The juncture is tragic: We have a vertical increase in cases, unbearable pressure of the health system with inability to serve the already hospitals, who begg for a bed in a hospital room, let alone in an IF unit. You claim that you have a plan, but it seems that the project that you have benefited the Greek people and public health, only the interests of private approaching friends. Today, a year from the outbreak of the pandemic, we seem to be more unprotected than ever. How will you justify that you are choosing to go through the urgent procedure, namely, by concise procedures and a lack of a substantial counterpart from Anti-Population, legislation on fundamental issues for our country's economy and health, which have been binding on the country and the Greeks for years? It is a piece of legislation with dozens of articles, with suffocating time frames within which we are supposed to process them, which is impossible, as you well know. These are legislation which raises great and serious debates about which, on the contrary, you are planning to spend little time working on them. On the other hand, on the health battle, the economic battle, the legislative battle, the struggle for the survival of the people, you bring the ratification of a forgotten agreement to the drawer and that is where it will remain. All Refugee Boss with Tunisia. And it is not that we do not want the bilateral agreements, especially with the neighbouring countries. Not at all. But now, in April 2021, given the extreme health conditions in our home country with almost a hundred deaths per day, with the health system squeezing, with prospects that they will be more bleak than ever, with the agony of the citizens for tomorrow, with the evacuation, not only of the number of coronary cases, but also of psychological and psychiatric incidents, because of the long-term incarceration of the people and the suppression of all economic activities, what we are asking is: Tunisia a direct priority? The choice of the time is unfortunate to bring such a diplomatic purpose to the vote. On the other hand, we ask ourselves about your motives whether they are naive or they are wicked, your purpose is obviously to disorientate the citizens and the legislative body from the enormous real problems that afflict us. Another reasonable question which is raised is this: is the reason you are bringing to the vote in the middle of a pandemic - even at the peak of the third wave - the ratification of this convention to help rapidly certain interests that cannot wait? As far as the substance of this convention is concerned, it has all the characteristics of such contracts: a positive climate, a generalist, a wishfulness, nothing specific, nothing binding. It is true that such agreements either remain in the drawer or are only used as an opportunity for either facility, which is apparent from the fact that their provisions are not binding, but are potentially references to encouragement and facilitation of cooperation. Article 2 refers to areas where there will be cooperation with Tunisia's leadership on health issues. We would like to know clearly and thoroughly how this agreement is implemented. Does the Ministry intend to organise seminars and conferences in the near future? Article 7 states that the amount to be made available for the needs of travel is determined by the State’s Accounting Office’s report to EUR 10,000. In addition, the circle of persons taking part in such journeys is not specified in detail. Gentlemen, the Greek people pay these trips and we ask you to be more specific. The Greek society does not have to pay for general and vague journeys of various factors that wish to have a good time at the expense of the overall. Bilateral relations between States shall be established to normalise their differences in foreign policy. The North African countries are a special case and we must be careful. On the other hand, in the essence of the convention, we cannot see that Tunisia can provide us with some health aid. We, yes, we can. It is worth noting that medical studies in Tunisia are lower than study at Greek universities. In short, the level of medical students in Greece is much higher than Tunisian students. That is why we need to know exactly how we will benefit from this cooperation. What experience, then, can we exchange on what level with our knowledge and know-how? It is certain that the Tunisian health sector will be upgraded. The question, however, is whether we and our residents will benefit from this cooperation at medical level. We have this as a question and we would like you to further analyse your plan on this. If we are to overcome this, Tunisia is the health protocols which Tunisia is applying compulsory molecular tests to the incoming, quarantine, fifteen days, extensive controls. On the contrary, in Greece, after the performance of the first wave last year, the uncontrolled opening of the borders to visitors is chosen with the disastrous results we are experiencing today. Moreover, the area of the export of medicinal products from Greece to Tunisia is a hopeful field, which has, however, been abandoned by Greece, because Greek exports of medicinal products take place only through international competitions opened by the Tunisian state body. I would like to point out something very serious here. Russia has proposed to Serbia a co-production of "Sputnik", on the same road is found Germany, Italy, France and Spain. Yesterday, the "ygeia-news" reported that the Russian "Sputnik", like the Chinese, had two years of antibody life, i.e. immunity. But you insist on 'PFIZER' alone in 'AstraZeneka'. Why? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Athanasios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] In addition, Minister, you did not answer the question from 1-4-2021, 5599, where will the used self-test be rejected, and how will there be a check on positive cases at home? You know that Europe is too strict on waste. The Government supports the development of Tunisia, while our country urgently needs support. Whether it is appropriate, then, for our country to help Tunisia when it is fighting for its survival, it is questionable. Let them be taken seriously, gentlemen, and we invite you to come to the level of circumstances, dealing with the burning issues and not with the non-critical ones. The Greek Solution votes for "the present".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mrs Athanasios, and the floor now is given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Maria Apatzides. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin with a brief comment on the Prime Minister's recent visit to Libya, a Tunisian neighbour. Mr. Mitsotakis went on to gather the uncomfortable after the fiasco of the political manipulations of his government. As regards Libya, initially, last year was not invited to the Berlin Conference, in which both Turkey and Egypt participated. Then, at the same time as Turkey gained diplomatic support and strengthened its negotiating position in Libya, threatened and deported its ambassador from Greece and later hosted Kalifa Huffar in Athens. It was a meeting which the Tripoli government denounced, that is, the internationally recognised Libyan government. Now, Mr Mitsotakis runs in order to create channels of communication that have been lost by the political choices of his government. The memorandum of understanding between Greece and Tunisia in the field of health, the ratification of which we are invited to vote today, was signed on November 2, 2016. An official visit was preceded by an official visit to Tunis by the former President of the House of Parliament of Mr. Voutsi, following the invitation of the Tunisian counterpart of a few months earlier. Greece consistently supports the development of Tunisia's relations with the European Union, and there is very good cooperation in the area of the exchange of candidacies within international organisations. A Memorandum of Understanding will be established, in particular in the field of public health, through the implementation of action programmes to be agreed and approved by the two countries. Of course, it is worth wondering how such cooperation will take place when the Government of the New Democracy is systematically repulsed and devalued by public health. What have we been pointing out for a year as a PARTA25? The need for recruitment of a sufficient number of permanent doctors and for substantial reinforcement of the public health system, the need for genuinely massive and so much more. What's the government doing? She puts her own responsibility to the citizens, through false-speaking tests with the ultimate aim of blaming them. Mr Mitsotakis clearly stated it: 'Health and the economy are in the hands of society', as he said. The first two articles in the Memorandum of Understanding provide for cooperation between the two countries in health fields such as communicable, non-transmissible and pandemic diseases, pharmaceutical industry, electronic health and biomedical research. Cooperation in areas such as maternity, child hygiene, vaccination and sexual and reproductive health is also provided for. Finally, it encourages the creation of direct communication mechanisms between all institutions and bodies and the exchange of experts. The other articles define the Ministries of Health of the two countries as responsible for their implementation and define their cooperation through an action programme to be adopted by both parties. It is planned to set up a Joint Coordination Committee and its purpose is to draw up the Action Plan for the implementation of the actions. The conditions for the exchange of know-how and the financial implications applicable to each expert visit shall be defined. Finally, it is agreed that differences in the interpretation or application of the memorandum to be ratified will be friendlyly settled by diplomatic means. Ladies and gentlemen, through external relations the European Union is supposed to seek the Europeanisation of the Mediterranean countries. But in reality, she is forming a exploiting empire in the sense of an asymmetrical relationship with her neighbors. It seemingly promoted its own values, but actually imposed its own policy. Through this asymmetrical relationship, the European Union sought two things: firstly, to secure energy resources from Mediterranean countries, such as Algeria and Libya, which are suppliers of oil and gas. Secondly, the expansion of its markets in an area in which it could expand commercially. With the emergence of the refugee and immigration issue, instead of the European Union contributing to the creation of favourable social and economic conditions on the African coast of the Mediterranean, some of the states in the region began to understand as "continental" countries - cushions, i.e. countries that would curb immigration, refugee flows to Europe. This change of attitude to the European Union's external relations was the beginning of a transformation of the Union's internal relations. It is at this point where the seed was planted in Moria, for which as Europeans we should be ashamed. Here is the 'root of death' of European solidarity and the transformation of our people into a debt-trafficking state that feels refugee within its own country. The conspiracy of the SYRIZA government consented to the transformation of Greece into an internal migration state - a border of Europe - fortress. In this context, the unacceptable and illegal agreement between the European Union and Turkey was signed on the basis of international law. The New Democracy Government, which combines the conspiracy towards the troika and Brussels, received by the violence and authoritarianism carried from the border to the inland, with the aim of suppressing any resistance to the debt-government managed by Mr Mitsotakis' government on behalf of the troika. The only way to reduce violence and authoritarianism within the Mediterranean countries - states, to avoid tensions between them, and to ensure peace, cooperation and international law in the region is the proposal of Mera25 for an international multilateral regional conference of the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean without a bias, without Mrs Merkel. This proposal could lead to a degrading of tension and to the creation of conditions for a truly peaceful and fair resolution of differences in the interests of the peoples rather than the oligarchs. In this context we welcome this agreement as a first step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. In order for there to be no injustice, Mr Poulas will speak in a double capacity later, due to the absence of Mr Scandalidis, that is to say, as a special speaker, but mainly as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. That is why I shall give the floor now - although not provided - to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Liako.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. For about a year now, our country, like the whole planet, has been faced with the unprecedented conditions imposed by the COVID -19 pandemic. They have never been imposed on societies, even on a global scale, horizontal restrictive measures. And yet, despite the obvious difficulties, the Greek Parliament has been operating properly throughout this period, discussing and voting laws not only to deal with the invisible enemy, but also for the next day, one day, which seems to be closer today than ever. Mass vaccinations, self-tests which will be available free of charge to every citizen, but also the good weather of our country will soon lead to our freedom. The lessons we learn from the pandemic experience must not be forgotten. On the contrary, both these and their main components must be analysed in depth, which are not humanity, solidarity and cooperation. In this respect, I should like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one. In the health sector, these courses are particularly valuable. The pandemic is testing the health systems of all states, reaching even the most advanced ones. The ERC is not an exception to the rule. Despite all his weaknesses, he managed to withstand and will continue to withstand, while still under enormous pressure every day. My optimism is largely due to the way in which the government managed the health crisis, which has been prioritising human life and its security, and has shown confidence in the skills of the country's health personnel, strengthening it decisively. The speed of dispersal throughout the world and unknown to unprecedented behaviour have demonstrated to the highest importance the almost universal contribution of national health systems. So at a time when the governments of all the states have been thrown into the battle to tackle the pandemic and strengthen their health systems, what has been evident from the first moment was the need for cooperation at transnational level. Ladies and gentlemen, transnational cooperation in the field of health is important and will remain important after the end of the pandemic because they contribute to the exchange of know-how between states, because with their contribution individual health systems can develop and adapt safely to the new challenges, because these are the only way to ensure global health. In this context is the current debate on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health. This is an agreement signed in November 2016 and I therefore want to believe that it will also be accepted by Opposition. Tunisia, one of the smaller countries in the Mediterranean region, has long-standing good relations with Greece, relations characterised by mutual appreciation and understanding, while at the same time the two countries share the vision of peace and security in the wider region. This is, moreover, one of the countries that took the lead in the Arab Spring uprising in January 2011 and since then it has taken substantial steps of political transition to democracy during a period of uncertainty characterised by political instability, social unrest and terrorist attacks. In this effort, both the European Union and Greece stand firmly next to it. Tunisia, however, has since shown a strong interest in modernization and health research. This agreement is therefore another important step in this direction. The details of the bill have been analysed in committee and for time-sharing reasons I will not do so now. Ladies and gentlemen, this memorandum of understanding is undoubtedly important and will contribute in particular to further deepening our country's relations with the Republic of Tunisia, a country that shares Greece's efforts to strengthen regional stability and promote peace in the Mediterranean. After all, it is also well known that our country's support for Tunisia's efforts to respond to the development challenges. I therefore believe that the memorandum of understanding in the field of health will be equally beneficial to both sides and will be an important point in further strengthening our relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u48	And we thank Mr Liaco. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr Poula. Mr Xanthos and Mrs Sukoulis have then asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Greek Government and the Tunisian Government in the field of health, signed on 2 November 2016, is being ratified by the Greek Parliament today after five years of delay. The Change Movement votes for this Convention. I am also taking this opportunity to talk about certain issues relating to topical and urgent health. First and foremost, the situation in our country is extremely worrying. Although the country has been on the ice for almost five months, the cases are still high, the number of deaths and intubated increases and society and the economy are suffocating at the same time. As a counter-population we choose the path of wisdom, conscientiousness, we do not attempt to exploit the management of the pandemic for micro-political reasons. What we are interested in right now is that the country enters a safe standard. Sadly, however, you are tired of your foreign-minded decisions, with your relics every week about what activities you intend to open. We regret to note that you are showing a picture of confusion and frustration. You look like you're already tired. On the one hand, you are trying to give the impression that everything is going well by announcing or leaking information on the opening of activities, but on the other hand, you are making mistakes that also displeased citizens, but also the successful treatment of the pandemic do not favour. Two weeks ago, here in this Step of the House, I had described self-test as a communication firework by the government. I was hoping to disprove. Unfortunately, I wasn't disproved. The alalum that emerged yesterday at the reception of self-tests from the pharmacies officially confirms my so-called. Make discounts on the specifications of the competition expressly while you have been very generous in the money you shared to contractors' companies, while it seems that you confused the self-tests with rapid test by confusing pharmacists and citizens. As for the companies that received the tender, made by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, 'ROCHE' handed over a million nine hundred tests, while the other three offer through the Chinese 'JOYSBIO' with significant variations from one company on the other, starting from 2,29 and ending at 3,36, the 'SWISS MED'. This company gave three million kits. The next time we see too much going out for this particular company, because here we are, something has happened. There must probably be intervention by the public prosecutors. Another major issue that concerns me is the course of vaccination in our country, namely the concern caused by its 'AstraZeneca' vaccine to the citizens. You know that many are postponing their vaccination in order to be vaccinated with another vaccine. This situation, how are we going to deal with it? Moreover, according to information, the company ‘MODERNA’ was to deliver three million eight hundred vaccines. Finally, he delivers only one million eight hundred. This reduction of the two million vaccines from MODERNA will obviously make it difficult to accelerate the vaccination of the population, but also to protect health, but prevents the reintegration of social and economic activity and of tourism. Strong reflection also causes not only to us, but also to the citizens the fact that you are turning our hospitals into one after another into one another. You started with "Sisminoglio", then you turned the hospital of "Red Cross" exclusively for COVID after "Thriasio" and now it sounds like you're going to turn the "Greek". How long will this situation continue? What about the citizens who need care for other diseases outside of COVID? At the same time, the situation seems to escape in the province, we see the Region of Kosani and Thessaloniki. We hope that we will not relive the events in November. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the health crisis that we live in must be a headline for the regeneration of the country's National Health System. That is why we are calling for brave funding for the regeneration of the National Health System, for permanent staff to be recruited, for the infrastructure of public hospitals to be upgraded, for you to finally bring us your plan for primary health care, for you to put weight on prevention and for workers to join heavy and unhealthy. Only in this way will Greek citizens obtain health services and the state must provide them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Poula. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr. Andreas Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. In this brief debate, which we declared our positive attitude to this ratification of the Convention, it is essential at this stage that pandemic in our country is to make some more general references. Without any overreaction, what the country is currently living and especially the Attica basin is a health tragedy. That's the reality. As much as you want to devour it, which is not overthrown, no matter how much you want to say that you do what you can - which you do neither do, nor what you should, nor the time that you have to - the situation today is exactly that. And apparently it's in a big operating blackout the health system in the Lefkapedio. The hospitals operate in their newspapers under medical warfare conditions and under no circumstances, Minister, what the political leadership and you and the Minister declare that the government will guarantee that no patient will be left without the necessary care. That does not exist at the moment. There's dozens of melted outside of the ICU. The anxiety of both workers and patients and their families is enormous. So in this climate, at the peak, in the hardest curve of the health crisis, the government makes a political choice - pressed by the market, by the fatigue of society, by the protests of professionals, from - to an opening. And since we all understand that this opening has a risk, it uses the self-test case as a fig sheet. It's really a communication movement, and I'm afraid it'll turn into a bubble. It will play no essential role in the need for upgraded epidemiological surveillance in this period and systematic intervention in the community, in the general population, in over-transmission, with extensive and targeted simultaneously testing, carried out under the responsibility of the public health services of the country, under the responsibility of the ESS, under the responsibility of the EESC and mobile units and, of course, with the assistance of the private sector and compensation from the EESC after prescribing. That's what you haven't done for so long and you're telling us we've raised the tests. Of course! I'm tired of hearing the Minister say we started with eight hundred tests, and now we have forty thousand a day. Do you know, Minister, how many tests the Cyprus of the eight hundred thousand inhabitants a day? He's doing fifty thousand tests, rapids and moleculars. Why did we not try to strengthen this intervention, which is of epidemiological importance, can record cases, properly tracked, and prevent the spread of the virus? That's not what happened. And also - I am not saying it - Mr Mosilos said so - these tests have very low effectiveness in coronary asymptomatic agents. Do you know how many asymptomatic entities are? 20% and has been shown to contribute to 44% of the spread of the virus in the community and the general population. So a black hole in this matter will trigger new waves and a new spread and won't block the community's pandemic, so the health system won't decongested. You are also telling us that we have a single health system now in the country, a single healthcare region, everyone has been involved, everyone helps and we manage it and we do everything we can and can withstand the ESS. What is actually happening is that you exhaust your tolerances and public structures and their human resources. I'm going to tell you a very characteristic example. Do you know how many beds the private sector has in the country? It has one third of all beds, ten thousand beds. I don't know exactly the number, but I guess there's a lot of thousands of private therapists' beds. Do you know what the private sector's contribution to the COVID incident hospitality is? It's 5%. Two hundred and fifty beds have been placed in four, five middle-level private hospitals for CIVID cases. The private sector, which has one third of beds, in the pandemic and in the case of COVID, participates with 5% when in France, which has learned from the first wave and painful experience, currently 30% of the needs of hospitality cover it through a central design. So this shows that there was no political will rather than to play a very complementary and very important role. The original deal was not to get involved in the pandemic at all. Now, at the tip of the third wave, this - it is supposed - voluntary assistance, but it is clear that this cannot decompress the health system, which, today, and the COVID incidents cannot take care of decently, as can be seen from the rest of the morbidity and the need to care for vulnerable groups of patients, with life-threatening illnesses. So the situation is difficult. We obviously do not welcome that, Minister, nor do we invest in failure and destruction. What we are doing, because we have great anxiety, because this battle against pandemic needs to be won, the health system, its people and society standing up is to put forward proposals. First, enhanced epidemiological surveillance in the community. That's where the battle went missing both in the second wave and now. You do not do this and you turn it into individual responsibility, self-examination, into a completely precarious and problematic process. Secondly, all available sanitary structures and forces are assembled. We can't go any different when we're at war. In the war they are all available at all times to find themselves on the front line and not some to take fire on the front and others to do helpful work in the camp. I say that to be informed. Thirdly, access - we have said so many times, with accelerated procedures, now that we have in principle approved by the European Medicines Agency - all COVID patients in modern and efficient and documented, with clinical studies, reliable treatments. In addition, there is a need to step up vaccination, to dismiss hospitals from being vaccinated centres. It's a distortion. At first it made sense, because their staff had to be vaccinated. It cannot continue at this stage, namely taking over hospitals and this responsibility. To increase vaccinations, with pressure on Europe to stand up to circumstances, to take the crucial step, to release patents, as the World Health Organisation says, not as the Left and SYRIZA says. The World Health Organization says so. To multiply production power and to have timely and equal access to all citizens of Europe, the Balkans and the world in this very critical and effective measure of primary prevention of pandemic. And, of course, it is clear - and I am closing with this and thank you, Mr President - that your management, the failed one, has begun to accumulate social discontent and anger and political deterioration. Now, anyone who has elementary contact with reality can understand it. I think that political developments are taking on board at this stage. No one can predict them exactly. Society has been annoyed with many other things. It has been disturbed by the magnificence, it has been disturbed by the exaggerated announcements, by the beauty, with the arrogance, with the last mile that we are going through, with the "Freedom" operation, with all that. Don't say it at this time, because you're causing. Because people are annoyed, society and especially the progressive world will not allow a public health crisis to turn into a crisis of social cohesion and, of course, a crisis of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u52	I will now call on the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Ms Maria - Helen Soulis - Vilialis. Here you go, Mrs. Sukuli - Viliali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again, two comments will be made, because in any case the Minister responsible for matters dealt with by the Members, the Parliamentary Representatives, is here and can provide us with sound information. Just, Mr Xanthi, when we talk about communication, I think it is an arbitrary political criticism and you are not used to us to rhetoric for reasons of impression. The government's position is clear and has been followed faithfully since the first moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u54	So you guys have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u55	I think I answered you with my comment. Looks like the effort to impress. I just wanted to say it as elegantly as my culture and my political speech allow. First of all, we put public health. We have proposed public health and I think that society has embraced it all from the start. We protect every life that can be protected, because every life is of value. Of course, this has led to and therefore to the adoption of restrictive measures that have caused justified fatigue. The body of Greek society, which came from a ten-year crisis, was expected to get tired, not only because the economic cycle was interrupted, but also because any social activity was interrupted. We are trying on the basis of epidemiological data and on the recommendations of experts - always on the recommendation of experts, you heard the Prime Minister say yesterday that it is the majority of the committee that decides and the decision is accepted and adopted - to make the necessary adjustments to social and economic activities. But at the moment the sanitaries are fighting us hugely. The NSA is struggling to withstand, stand and stand. All of us, the vast majority of Greek society, which we have individual responsibility, will make the ultimate effort to comply with the measures, especially now, not for the self-tests that come and the rapid-tests, as you insisted and said, which only strengthen our arsenal, but why our vaccination opens a hope window for our return to normality again. You spoke about the self-test numbers that are made daily. But also talk about vaccinations, because the sixty thousand vaccinations made every day are a very important number. It puts us in the first countries, as vaccination is progressing. I think it's going to happen gradually, we're going to go out to the clearing of normality, and we're gonna make it. With regard to ratification with Tunisia, much has been heard about this country, much has been heard about the relationship between the two countries and about strengthening these relations. I won't repeat it. Greece, however, as a country of stability and peace in the region, has always promoted mutual cooperation with neighbouring states for the benefit of all citizens. The settlement of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Republic of Tunisia in areas relating to the field of health is another right step in this direction. We open streets of mutual understanding and mutual assistance, leaving aside all these voices that invest in fanaticism and nationalist expansion and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. In order to conclude today's debate on the Closure of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Greek Government and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia, the Minister, Mr Kontozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Clearly this signature of the memorandum of understanding is important. It's an initiative launched by SYRIZA government. As Mrs Agathopoulos referred to the issue of Africa and citizens' access, our fellow citizens, our third countries and developing countries in the world, and especially in Africa, I would remind you that the current government is taking part in all initiatives aimed at guaranteeing access for all the world's population to vaccination coverage. I would also remind you that we are taking part in the initiatives of the 'COVAX Facility', both through the European Union and the 'EC Accelerator'. I would remind you that the Greek Government has already allocated EUR 3 million, EUR 1.5 million and 1,5 million respectively to the GAVI and CEPI initiative, which aims to ensure access to developing countries and countries in Africa and other countries both in vaccines and in treatments against COVID -19. It is very important, of course, that each country has its own health experience and I think that cooperation with the Republic of Tunisia can only have benefits for our country and, of course, contributes to the further development of the relations between these two countries and bilateral cooperation in the field of health first. There have been several issues which concern the topical and urgent subjects of major importance. I think we've been through this many times. I shall refer briefly, Mr President, to specific and clear answers, as we have done in the past. Mrs Agathopoulos once again said that there was a nine hundred and forty-three, if I am not mistaken, position of permanent medical staff in SYRIZA, which we took back. If you find a doctor's application for this notice, which we got back, you come and tell us. And I would remind you that the recruitment planning takes place at the beginning of each year and months before the notice. The previous government, your government, came in May 2019 with an allocation of positions for a proclamation, which did not proceed due to the elections. You had four and a half years at your disposal and you came in May 2019. No one, then, proceeded. Yeah, we went ahead with her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u58	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u59	And we have in twenty months of governing two thousand five hundred seventy four authorisations of permanent medical staff compared with two thousand seven hundred fifty authorisations on your own government only for the medical staff. You referred to intensive care units and tell us how we present these large numbers - a thousand hundred, a thousand two hundred, how many you said - when we have more than seven hundred tubed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u60	Thousands of three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u61	Let me remind you that the National Health System is also facing non-COVID incidents and intensive treatment units there are cases of non-COVID. It is not all covid cases or all intact in intensive care units. And there are also cases of hospitalisation in intensive treatment units, which may not be intact. Besides, take a walk to hospitals to see that the number of intensive care units has increased. I am sorry to say this, but it was your government and, if I am not mistaken, you, Mr Xanthi, said in 2016-2018 - I have the relevant excerpts - that we are the country in Europe with the fewer closed intensive treatment units. You said that we had the fewest intensive treatment units in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u62	We've been celebrating? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u63	I would also like to mention the question of access for our fellow citizens to the treatments that have to do with COVID. Mr. Xanthos mentioned it as a suggestion. We have access to every treatment available. And I want to say this, because lately there has been talk of the monoclonal antibodies, to which we have access again by means of a common European supply, and we have ensured quantities. Of course, once the approval procedures are completed, we will have them at our disposal. Our country has access to anything that the therapeutic and pharmaceutical protocols provide for. Finally, as far as self-tests are concerned, you started a misery by saying that we "photographed" a specific company to get the competition, which didn't even come down to the contest. Thirty-three companies submitted tenders in this tender. As far as self-test is concerned, they are already being made available to the population today, according to our programming. At this point, I would like to say something that we have been saying over the last few years. The self-tests are rapid test. That's something we all know. Their difference is that they are licensed by competent regulatory authorities as self-tests in Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands. There are countries in Europe that have given urgent authorisation to grant these tests as self-test. So rapid tests become self-test. The difference is that self-receiving can be done and that it is easier in the reception process. Therefore, they can be done without health surveillance. This is the urgent permission given by the competent authorities, which is why they are designated as self-tests and self-diagnostics. That's clear. And at this point, I will say something else. The self-tests have all the 'CE' certifications and others, are approved for professional use and can also be used for professional use. Already licensed for professional use, they were licensed as self-diagnostics. That's the difference. And everything comes out of the relevant European directives. And I'm gonna say something else to make it clear. Our strategy is complementary to the diagnostic tests we carry out in both rapid test and molecular tests. And yes, Mr. Xanthi, we have reached all sixty thousand diagnostic checks a day and these tests are increased. And because you mentioned Cyprus, yes, Cyprus is the first country in Europe to carry out a test. However, our country is in the first positions in Europe, 'green' on the maps of the ECDC, as far as the tests are concerned. And yes, we started low, we continued and increased the tests and will continue to grow. It's a supplementary action. Can I tell you something else? As we read, England starts next week what we started, namely having two self-tests a week, in order to do what we and the literature are doing. The ones we want to locate are asymptomatic. You said they were 20%. The literature says one in three coronary bodies is asymptomatic. It is a tool, therefore, that will help us to improve the epidemiological picture we have and to be able to safely open the activities in our country. We have said that where cases of 'falsely positive', in particular 'falsely negative' tests, etc., there will be procedures to confirm these tests and to comply with all the relevant procedures. Finally, Mr President, let me turn to the Greek Solution, which refers once again to the Sputnik vaccine. First of all, the Greek Solution should make it clear to us whether it is 'in favour' or 'in favour' of vaccination. Secondly, I will say once again that in Greece, no non-approved vaccine will be released by the European Medicines Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Health, "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health". We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u66	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u67	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u69	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-08-S1-commons.u70	With the consent of the House at 12.23 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 9 April 2021, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
