ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs in a letter informs the House of the topical and urgent questions which will be discussed today. It's known. For the time economy, I don't have to mention them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u2	With your consent, we will change a little the order of debate, in view of the fact that Mr. Skylakakis is on his way. So that we do not waste time, since the Secretary of State for the Environment is here, Mr. Amyras, and Mr. Famelos will start with their own question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I have a committee at 3 p.m. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u4	Don't worry, he's on his way, he's on his way. So we begin with our first question with number 3906/4-2-2021 from the circle of the petitions and questions of the MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Pulse from all kinds of waste in the protected area of Apios”. The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. I would ask everyone, in view of the fact that we have twenty-three questions, which will be discussed, and the time is short, to keep the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure with a slight tolerance, of course. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good week to both you and the State Secretary and my fellow Members. The first question we shall be discussing is a question which has been tabled in writing and because it has not been answered, as it should have been, nowadays enters the time-consuming process. The question was tabled on 4 February, it was one of all the members of the SYRIZA of central Macedonia - there are several colleagues and colleagues from central Macedonia - and it concerns a very serious but also very common issue, unfortunately. In a strange way, Mr Amyras, you know that it connects us and because of your own thessalonikitic starting point. We have the problem of converting protected wetlands into uncontrolled waste disposal sites. It is not something that only concerns Thessaloniki, we also meet in other regions, but here we have a particularly if you want to have a repetitive problem, which the Management Body of Protected Areas of the Thermaikos Gulf also announced, and the ecological group "Hedorous Nature", Kalochori volunteers, whom we must congratulate for this work they do. Recently, this weekend they also did restoration work in the wetland area. Announcements from the organisation, as well as from photographs from the ecological group, show that the image is tragic. From Kalochori to the bed of French, unfortunately, the area due to the proximity of the city complex of Thessaloniki is received many wastes: bass, tires, tanks, and even dangerous materials. The recent incident, however, with the mattresses from a hospital in Thessaloniki, may prove the intensity of the phenomenon. It is linked to the health crisis that our society is going through. It makes us all more sensitive, you know that. Also, the members of the ecological group "Heidor Nature" report too many others, even dangerous waste, in the Kalochori Lake, an area, which has unfortunately been downgraded for too many years. And that's timeless. So the question arises first of all, Mr Amyras, which is why we have written the question - is what the conclusion of the Department of the Environment of the Region of Central Macedonia is. We are interested in the institutional texts, Mr President, as you can see. We know he had an autopsy with the agency's guards, compiled a report. We would like to know exactly what is happening and, more generally, what the environmental services are about discharges. Since the issue is recurring and associated with hazardous waste, I believe that the political leadership should have contacted environmental inspectors, which correspond to the RIS. We therefore want to know: what is the result of this communication. What exactly has emerged from the inspectors' body. If you have been autopsied and if you have ordered some examination of this matter and what the local authorities have done on this matter. In my dentistry, after you tell us why you haven't given us the evidence so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, there is indeed a common love and sensitivity of the two of us - and not only, of course, of the one we are talking about in this Chamber - about the issues of the ecosystems of the town complex of Thessaloniki. The truth is that for many years now - as you have rightly said - the problem - the area of the National Park of Ability - Loudia - Alikmon - the Aliki Kitros and the Kalochori lagoon, an area of three hundred and thirty-eight thousand acres, has unfortunately been repeatedly accepted for the disposal of urban solid waste. The good news is that the six HGAAs created within the park have now been environmentally restored. However, I am also coming straight to the issue of uncontrolled waste disposal, the imposition of sanctions and what they will be. First of all, let us say that three are the main tools to control and account for any responsibilities for such uncontrolled discharges: It is the Environmental Quality Control Scale of the Region of Central Macedonia, it is the Environmental Services of the Decentralised Command and, of course, the Environmental Inspectors. So you ask me what we are going to do and what the conclusion of the report from the Environment Department of the Region of Central Macedonia is. First of all, let us say that the Environmental Damage Coordinating Office, which is directly subject to the Secretary-General for Natural Environment and Energy of our Ministry, asked for a document on 13 March to send us the results of the audit so that we too can see exactly what the tiles of the region of Central Macedonia have been spotted there. Checks and autopsies were carried out as follows: On October 14, 2020, at 9.30" in the morning in the Municipalities of Kalochori for uncontrolled deposits by unknown offenders. On November 2, 2020, three weeks later, that is. And on November 11, 2020, with autopsy and control respectively. There we also had the well-known issue of the disposal of solid waste. So the regional conclusion is about fifty pages. Of course, I'll testify to you. Apparently, you've got it too, considering you may have included a quote. I do not know whether you have it or whether it has been published by the region. I don't know. But, in your question, dear fellow Member, you have included a quote from his summary. Let's go straight ahead and, in fact, see what this conclusion at first reading says. Here, then, there are seventeen points along the Kalochori - Adequate Delta - but also in the French river bed, where a concentration of solid waste is indeed confirmed. It is mainly a ball of demolitions, but also waste of mydoc farming, waste from dismantling of fishing vessels and trimmings. In some respects, then, there are what you refer to in the introduction of your question. Therefore, if you wish, I will present the finding to you, but I am sure you know it, as I have told you, that you are also using it in an excerpt, which I do not know how you are using it. Obviously, that is what we are talking about. Mr President, in my denunciation the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u8	Here you go, Mr. Famele, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u9	First of all, there must be clarification of what the Minister of State asked. We have the organization's announcement. The body shall announce that an audit has been carried out and shall briefly give the seventeen points. I shall present them, Mr President, for the State Secretary to be informed. Because he's the body you're supervising, Mr. Undersecretary. He announced it. We are also asking you about the finding, which we would obviously like, because there are other issues involved and it is not only technical if you like. However, I'm waiting for your second place to tell us what you're going to do about this. Because the question is not only what the conclusion is, but what you're going to do for what reason. By post of 28 March, which emerged in the newspaper "Macedonia of Sunday" serious issues arise for the preservation, Mr President, and for the inability of the municipality to help, since the municipality says that it does not have municipal police and does not have staff to protect the region and why the Greek Police cannot - he says - do this work because he is responsible for other tasks. So we have an uncontrolled situation that leads the Municipality of Delta to announce fines of up to EUR 5,000, and at the same time, the body that is being supervised by you, says that supervisors are not enough to safeguard this vast area, but they do not have the investigation tasks. There is the question here - and finally comes into our political reality - how the institutions are sufficient to make such an important function. So your government is currently weakening both the municipalities and police functions in this area, coming and weakening the agencies. This is also the case at the place we all share as origin and interest. So while, with Law 4519/2018, the SYRIZA government had strengthened the institutions and had created institutions throughout Greece and it had announced over four hundred jobs for their staff, you come with Law 4685 and you remove the agencies. So you will also be abolishing the Administration of the Thematic Gulf Body and you will be abolishing the body that is now dealing with the Gulf as a maritime system that Thessaloniki has been asking for for for so many years. You are now abolishing it, even though it was an announcement by Mr Karamanlis, Prime Minister of the New Democracy, I remind you. Of course, with Law 4685 the issue of safeguarding, which we are talking about, becomes optional, and it is up to programming conventions which the OFPEKA, in other words Athens, will do with local services. Local services come, with this incident, Mr. Amyras, and tell us that they cannot exercise responsibilities and activities and why they do not have any staff, but also because you are abolishing the Administration of the Thermaikos Gulf Body, a body that needs it, and the delta and the national park, as well as our city and the whole of central Macedonia. So we see that the political starting point of your own government is the deterioration of the administration of the protected areas and the preservation of the protected areas. So you see where this great political mistake of your Government leads to many uncontrolled activities beginning. All actors in the region say they can't handle them anymore. Apparently, this was also the case with mattresses from the hospital, which the municipality returned to the hospital. That's why I'd like you to tell us something. Because I didn't hear in your initial position that there was some kind of evaluation of the whole problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In practice, you have created a meteorological situation in the protection of the environment and in the protection of the NATURA 2000 network areas. This is added to the fact that Greece has already been convicted by the Court of Justice of the European Union for the infringement of Directive 92/43/EEC. The Special Environmental Studies with Law 4685, even though they were proclaimed by SYRIZA, were "frozen" with your own government. So we have an overall problem of administration, staffing, institutional framework. What have we seen from you? The invitation of thirty-eight civil servants to FYPEKA. We want, Mr Secretary, even on this occasion of the debate, to ask you to change your position. First of all, do you insist that you keep these Athenian-centric commanders, but also unified in the field, which does not even correspond to the thirty-six bodies that existed so far? Do you insist that you do not prioritise the staffing of existing staff? Do you insist on keeping a voluntary subject of cooperation from weak operators?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u10	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u11	In any case, will you do something to change all these negative circumstances in terms of the natural environment created by the Mitsotakis Government? Because the latter was that you gave NATURA areas to Mr.Georgiadis, breaking Special Environmental Studies and granting management and investment to investors and not to the Ministry of the Environment. And you are absent from this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Famelle, I will answer the delta issue first, and then I will come to the rest of the information you mentioned about the OFYKEPA. First of all, the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace and especially the Directorate-General for Forests and Rural Affairs - in writing everything I say to you - contacted and coordinated both the Forestry and the Thessaloniki Forest Department, doing - this is a fact - regular patrols in the area, there on the French river and wherever required, so that they can do what they need to protect the region. The Thessaloniki Forestry has already filed press reports. But at this point, Mr Famele, I will be caught by something. I agree with you that it is a big issue that guardians, up to now, of the Protected Areas Management Bodies, from here and beyond the Protected Areas Management Units, under the umbrella of FYKEPA, the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency, do not have investigational tasks. So I would like to ask you this: will you support such legislation that we are going to give inquiries to people who are guarding the protected areas? I would like a 'yes' or a 'no' from you. So far...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u14	As soon as you announce their recruitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u15	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u16	So far, Merra25, by Mr Arseni,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u17	Will you hire them, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Femelle, don't interrupt. None of you interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Femelle, I can't hear you. You'll answer later. For so many years, you, who have been Head - and your government - of the Ministry of the Environment and Management, have done nothing to strengthen the possibility of people keeping protected areas, cutting a fine. What was the procedure? I've seen her with my own eyes on Kalamata's delta five years ago. I saw someone going on the farm to throw the balls and I was there with two security officers. I ask, 'What are you going to do now?' They replied: "What we need to do, given that we do not have the investigation tasks to confirm the infringement and put the fine on, it is to call the police and if it has a police car, it will send it to us". The city was forty miles away, so say hello to my plank. We therefore want and will give inquiries to the people responsible for the sensitive issue of storage. I hope that you will support this legislative provision and the initiative. Will you do it? So far, Mr Arsenis from Mera25 has found it positive in a timely debate here and said that he will support it. I hope you do it, too. Now, with regard to the more general issue you raised, by OFPEKA, I would remind you that you had created eight management bodies that had only a board of directors and not a single employee. Cyclades, Crete, Peloponnese. So tell me, would the members of the board of directors be out of their office to go to the field of investigation, evaluation or safeguarding? So we have done very well and have replaced management bodies with a different system, which will be more efficient and much more effective in safeguarding and protecting the environment. We are very consistent with what we say. In relation to the last question you asked about the workers as a whole, I have to tell you this: when OFYPEKA becomes the universal successor to these bodies, you do not have to ask me whether or not we will keep the workers in the former bodies. It says in Article 43(4) that ‘Any staff of the management bodies of protected areas shall be transferred automatically to the same employment relationship in the OFYPEKA and placed in the respective Management Units of protected areas’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Before entering the next question, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Tourism, the Ministers of State, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs, tabled a draft law on 26-2021: "The necessary arrangements for harmonising Greek legislation with the revised, with effect from 1-2021, the Antidopting Code of the World Organisation of Antidopting". We shall now move on to the debate on the next timely question to which the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Skulakakis will answer. It is the eighth Question No 586/19-3-2021, by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The retroactive wage cut for employees of the NSRF at the Municipal Organisation of Preschool Education, Care and Mass Sport of Heraklion (MPAFMAH)". He will respond - as I said - to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Municipal Organisation for Pre-school Education, Care and Mass Sports of Heraklion with its document on 03-02-2021 requested the reimbursement of the sums paid to sixty-five employees under the ESDP programme, otherwise it would be charged to the DU with the related increments. This development emerged after the audit of the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the Ministry of Finance carried out at the end of 2018 and was carried out throughout the year due to an incorrect award of the personal dispute, as attributes state. This personal difference, which is part of the already low wages of the ESDP workers, is asked to return it in the form of a monthly wage cut of 10% on the grounds that the workers are not working all year round, but that their work relationship with the Agency is interrupted for the month of August every year. It should be noted here that the Court of Auditors had approved the payment of the personal difference. I am also telling you that these workers under the status of hostage in this employment relationship have been in the same position for many years to go on for up to fifteen years, with their contracts being regarded as being renewed by the agency itself. The report itself raises the question of their compensation if they are made redundant every year, which is also not implemented. Meanwhile, 2019 under the pressure of the workers and the invoking of the respective legislation, ICAO, the municipality, that is, signed a 12-month contract with these workers, while for the retrospective payment of previous years for August as it was due, it has not paid anything until today. The developments and the management of this case by ICAO, from the Municipality of Heraklion, thus shows that the anti-corporate person of the local administration, who has no dissatisfaction with the fact that every right to work has been denied and loyally promote the policy of the central state regardless of the governments, with a central role in reducing labour costs, at the same time as your governments have a number of tax exemptions and other advantages in big capital, and indeed, in the midst of a pandemic. At the same time, of course, social and pedagogical structures are denounced, which are offered to individuals, thereby opening up new areas of profit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u22	In your dentistry, you will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u23	So we ask you, Minister, how does the government intend to act so that no cuts can be made in the wages of employees in the RESEARCH programme and that all wages in the past are paid immediately for the twelfth month? In addition, all contracts should be converted into an indefinite period and all required new recruitment should be made through state funding and no privatisation of the municipality’s services should be made. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u24	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the question is concerned, I should first of all like to say that we have to bear in mind that we do not have something arbitrary here. We have a control mechanism which moves completely independently - although it falls under my jurisdiction, but which moves entirely independently - and which recorded comments in relation to the legality of the acts of this agency. The responsibility for legality or non-legality lies with the organisation concerned. If, of course, these workers considered and considered that the relevant contract was legal and poorly controlled, they have every opportunity to appeal to the Court of Auditors. That's how they can defend themselves. As you know, every operation of the administration, at any stage, can be subject to judicial review. If, as you say, the Court of Auditors has approved this, this will be seen by the decision of the Court of Auditors at the end of the day. From that point on, on the wider issues raised by the Member, on the rest of the major chapters and everything else, I would not like to go into particular detail about them, because it is a permanent and permanent position of the Communist Party, which considers that everything in this country can be paid, because a small part of the economy will be taxed and then there will be this small part of the economy to pay for all the others. This position is not practically realistic. This reality, I think, is no escape from anyone. I think that the Communist Party also does not escape, although it repeats these with great consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Mr Synthrakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you said the mechanisms operate on the basis of legality. The government in question says: 'We act with legitimacy'. One government succeeds on the other, considering that the state has continued and so is when the urban governments are succeeding. But legality is a relevant concept. There is the law of the strong and there is the law of the workers. I ask you the very simple thing: Their employment relationship as an IDI worker is interrupted by the end of July and renewed by the beginning of September. These people, however, continue to work in August. Because, in order for children's stations to work early in September, they have to prepare for the month when their employment relationship is interrupted. Is it not fair to claim that they should be paid for this month in which they work? It's simple. Tell me, where's the illegality here? Unless legality - in this case - yours is the illegality of the government itself, the state itself, towards the workers. These people, Minister, live in a hostage regime. We are now talking about structures such as day-to-day, day-to-day, working relationships with 11 months, two months, four months, ESDPs, and all these unemployment and labour recycling programmes are maintained with very low rights to no more. Shouldn't an end come in? I ask you: if you had accepted the proposals of the workers themselves, accepted amendments tabled by the JRC, so that fixed-term contracts would be converted into indefinite ones, we would be discussing today whether or not personal disputes should be returned? Hiring these workers with a permanent employment relationship would not solve many problems in social structures in local government and not just? Should we not, then, put an end to all this perpetuation of the work hostage with these continuously renewing contracts? They are people who have been working for ten to fifteen years in this job. It is necessary to ensure that these structures remain in operation as public free structures and that workers have a permanent employment relationship. Convert them into indefinite time. Why don't you do it? Invoke the law every time, invoke the Constitution. When it was time for the Constitution to be reviewed, we made the proposal to both you and the other parties to revise this article - in 103, 123, I do not remember exactly - so that fixed-term contracts would be converted into indefinite and not accepted. Today you call it an obstacle not to turn them into indefinite time, that is to say to see the hypocrisy of the government against these employment issues. For these workers, are there the authorised national funds within harmonisation, so is there any additional financial costs involved in recruitment? If you did this, they will not be subject to any known restrictions. I think we have a similar example in the case of 'Help at Home'. It shall apply. Why don't you do it? We are therefore reintroducing the matter. Give us a solution. It's micropsy, while the workers work, you call on legality, so they don't get paid, and you get them back. Tell me what sense that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u29	Let me begin with the wider issues that you have raised. First of all, the Constitution provides that recruitment cannot be carried out permanently, except for certain procedures based on the AACC. At times, such simulations have been made, but always with an effort to respect legality, usually with additional molecules taken by people who have worked for some years. Here now, the issues of people working with money from the ESRB are a difficult and budgetary and real one, because there has actually been no financial space to turn these recruitments into permanent ones. This is municipal agencies, so it is possible for the municipality, if it wishes, to use part of its revenue - that is the principle of self-government and independence of self-government - to cover such costs if it so wishes. I note, to go to the wider issues, that legality is not the right of the mighty, that is what arises from the courts. The theory of legality based on the law of the mighty can be a theory dear to the Communist Party - let us not forget that legality in its own world theory comes from the dictatorship of the proletariat - but in urban republics legality is what justice and parliament are saying. In this legality, we will remain, since we are a civil democracy, as you call it. Finally, apart from the other fairs, I would like to point out that there is the law of the taxpayer, which also has its own meaning, because at the end of the day, all these costs, which you propose, do not come from heaven, nor can they all come from the taxation of capital, as you say again, for the very simple reason that the specific revenue you refer to is too small to meet the needs you are talking about. That is to say, we have a business tax which, as you can measure it, cannot exceed a few billion euros and a state which, as measured by it, has several tens of billion euros, existing expenditure. Therefore, this whole theory "tax the capital and we have so much money to be able to tell everyone yes" is unrealistic, to say it politely.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the fifth under No 3521/455/25-1-2021 question and requesting the submission of documents by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The problem of air pollution in the area near the Fertiliser Factory in Kavala". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer this question. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the second time - one was the previous year - which I am asking exactly the same question about the problem of air pollution in Kavala and especially in the areas near the Kavala compost industry. Unfortunately, you didn't answer me. I would expect you to answer me in writing and you do not submit the documents so I am forced to bring it in this process, and I hope we will get the answers, not only me, but also the Cavalians. The situation remains the same. The problem is tragic. Due to the intense air pollution emitted by the factory mainly at night hours and holidays, the residents of the surrounding regions really face a huge problem, they breathe with difficulty and often they cannot see one and a half meters. The phenomenon is intense and worrying for the residents, who have also filed press reports to the Kavala Prosecutor's office, which has been prosecuted and we expect the case to be dealt with. Unfortunately, people have repeatedly asked questions to the municipality, but also to the region, but they have not received the answers they should have received. In particular, we were concerned after the timely question of the Change Movement by Mr Mulkiotis, where you submitted the annual regular review report of the company "LIBAMAS KAVALAS LRD" with many comments and points. The report has also been notified to your Ministry, and, unfortunately, it says - in detail, I am going to refer to my denunciation - that your Ministry of the On-the-spot check carried out on 9 September 2020 did not send a representative, which was requested by the competent authority. Therefore, we are addressing your Ministry as a co-legislator that environmentally licenses the industry with all the questions that I have raised in my question, which are a lot and I cannot mention them this year, particularly the decision to approve environmental conditions, if this is the case, how the plant works, since at the moment many companies are active in it, if the European directive SEVESO III has been complied with and all the specific questions, and of course I expect you to submit the documents that I am asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have asked me twelve questions. I will try to answer everything quickly and briefly. Before I start my answer in detail, I would like to say that the problems of disossalism in areas close to industrial sites are a complex and difficult matter, which requires synergy not only of the central administrative machine or regional and local government, but also of course of the scientific community and of course of business. So you ask me: First of all, who are those responsible for monitoring compliance with the environmental conditions of this company so that we can identify who are supervised on this issue. It is the Special Secretariat of our Ministry of Inspectors and Auditors, the relevant services of the decentralised administrations are the respective control services of the region and the environment quality control steps are clear. I'll take them one by one, because you didn't even say half the questions and connect them after one another, and they're not entirely connected. So you ask me whether the authorisation of the "Hellenic LIMITS AND CHEMICAL CONTROLS" is in force and, if not, when it ceased to apply. So, as we all know very well, these companies - and I, of course, and above all the Cavaliotes - operate at the premises of Nea Carvallis as a successor of the company "ELLENIC LIMITS AND CHEMICALS". Are there any operating permits? Of course, there are authorisations from the region. They're number F142148 -- I'm not telling you the rest of the numbers -- and F142138. This authorisation is 2015. An amendment to environmental conditions has already been made. The GDP figure is 187568. There was also another change in the approval of environmental conditions, GDP 210648 on the use of water in industry. A last change is GDP under number 212597. Currently no request is pending for renewal or modification of the current GNI. You also asked me - you said it orally - whether or not the parent companies are covered by the permit and the approval of environmental conditions. So I say to you clearly that these companies, i.e. the 'KAVALES' and PFIC LTD - as a successor state of the company 'ELLENIC LIMITS AND CHEMICALS' - are covered by the environmental license of the company 'KAVALES' with PFIC from the company 'Hellenic LIMITS AND CHEMICALs'. This license was 10 years long. However, according to the law that amended and modernised the licence model, namely Law 4685-2020, our law - the ten-year licence is 15 years long and this renewal becomes self-evident. I therefore reply to that, namely whether there is a permit or not. I shall continue, Mr President, if I may, very briefly. You're asking me if measurements are made, that that's what you're interested in, and what the measurements are making. I say to you that, as you know, there is the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network with fixed stations, automatic, operating on a 24-hour basis. There is, of course, one such station in Kavala. I would remind you that it is the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace region, according to No.3852, that is, the KALIKARAT law, which is responsible for monitoring air quality within its administrative limits. There, therefore, was the requirement to operate on the ground of the premises of this industry, i.e. to operate a quality measurement station of the atmosphere, as was done. The collection, storage and processing of the values of the measurements are done electronically and these processed results of the measurements are included in the annual report, as you said earlier, environmental performance at the time of submission to our Office, namely the Environmental and Spatial Planning Directorate. Mr. President, may I continue? It's twelve questions, and I've reached four.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u34	You're welcome soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u35	I need a minute more, so I can finish. It's very important. What are the findings of the audit report? That's what we're interested in, and that's what the Cavaliers want to know. Were there any checks carried out? Yes, of course, they did. Listen. In October 2020, Ministry of Environment Inspectors carried out new autopsies to both companies, based on the programme of regular environmental inspections for 2020 and 2021, in the current year. This check is under way. Also, on 9 September, a month before the last check I mentioned, a new year was carried out - this is the annual regular inspection at the premises of the company. Furthermore, in August 2020, the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace had also conducted extraordinary autopsy to investigate the phenomena reported by many people as phenomena of dysosmia. So what was found out by control? And here we come to your question. It was found that there were environmental violations of the terms of the current GDP and that the planned administrative sanctions of EUR 40,000 were imposed on each of the companies, while the measurements of the air quality plant for the two months of June - July were found to be far below the permitted limits. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u36	Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I imagine you will testify to the checks and the results of these and the Minutes, so that I can get them and evaluate them. As regards the GDP of the parent company 'KAVALAS', I did not understand how all the companies inside the factory are covered, since only one company that operates half of the factory is renewed. So, in the event of an accident - for example - what company will be responsible for all? You did not mention the results of the Annual Regular Inspection Report, which took place on 9 September 2020. What's he saying? It says there is a risk, because there is a downgraded ammonia nitrate in the factory. It says that extremely dangerous materials, when in an ammonia nitrate environment, can cause an accident. It says that the plant operates with untrained staff and that is why training seminars are required from an external accredited body. He says there's a need to check the plant's static adequacy. It says that an automatic temperature-humidity recording system should be installed, which does not exist. The auditors also say that an additional inspection should definitely be carried out within six months to see whether the company has complied with all of this. What does the company say to your ministry? Mr. Laurentiadis is fighting you. It therefore requires the region - the results of the audits - that the relevant ministers should not be notified again to the Ministers and institutional authorities of the results of the audit. Considers that expert experts from the Ministry should not be involved in the audits and asks that your Ministry not be called back to the audits. Refused to review - update the safety study, because the auditors said the Ministry of Public Order should review after the Ammonia nitrate accident in Beirut to review the safety study. Refusing to train staff, requesting the deletion of all non-conformities and evidence and the deletion of the entire report. I would therefore ask if that is what your Ministry is aware of, if it is what you have just read, because that is what the Cavaliers need to know if you have pointed it out, if you intend to re-check - it has been six months since the previous one, in five days it closes in six months - and if you insist that all the infringements be checked by the auditors in the region and, of course, you also send your own auditor. The fact that there were a lot of questions and you did not have time to answer me is not my fault, Minister. It's because it was a written question. I will therefore await a written reply for all, as will the documents that I have requested you to submit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Eleftheriadou, of course I will testify everything. We are giving all the information to all my fellow Members, because this is our role, this is our obligation and because we believe that transparency and accountability are a sound indicator of parliamentaryism. So you asked me about the results of the region and whether an evaluation has been carried out and where we will find these. I will tell you this: First of all, if you enter our Ministry's site - because the assessment of measurements for Kavala and the check of compliance with the limit values are shown in Annex 8 of the Annual Report of Atmospheric Pollution - if you enter our website, in ypeka.gr, in the thematic section "Environment/Environmental quality of the atmosphere/Reports", you will find what you have asked me. The primary measurement data are therefore available and note that for Kavala the on-site station there in 2019 has changed its position. The assessment - which is of interest to us - of measurements, concentrations of nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, ozone and benzene showed that the limit values for no pollutants for 2019 have been exceeded. The 2020 assessment is being carried out at the time we are talking, of course, waiting for the latest data from the measurements made by the relevant department of the region. We are therefore waiting for the region to make its study and evaluation there. You asked me something about SEVESO, the directive and who is connected and who is not linked. It follows from the information from the audits carried out by the Ministry's environmental inspectors that only the company ‘KAVALAS’ is subject to the provisions of the SEVESO Directive. However, we are going to the other companies. For example, the ‘ NEW CARVAL LIMITS’ have been drafted and submitted to the competent authorities, administration, region and other bodies, a safety study for the premises of this company since 2017. As regards the other company ‘NEWAYS CARVAL S.A.’, inspections have been carried out in the last three years on the basis of Article 19 of the relevant CYE. These inspections are coordinated by the Regional Development Department of Kavala. You also asked me about the modification of GDP, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u40	Yes, but you're talking about the same company, about the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u41	Please, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, don't interrupt. The Minister has not interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u42	Of course, I know, but, as I told you, there was a 10-year licence for the company "ELLENIC LIMITS AND CHEMICALS". Do we agree to this? This was amended in 2012 and then there was another amendment, but also all these modifications to the authorisations of public limited companies, which were mentioned in the original company ‘ELLENICA LIMITS AND CHEMICA’. We agree to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u43	We don't agree, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u44	As I said, the successor, on the basis of the modernisation of the legislation, became a 15-year-old environmental licence. So, of course, it's covered. From there on, we are very interested in the subject and we are dealing with it in other regions of Greece. It comes occasionally and is an issue that concerns us. For example, in Volos, Thessaloniki and Kavala we have odors, but also other issues in various industrial complexes, which we are of course looking at. We have already sent inspectors and we are working very closely with local regions and municipalities, but also with the Civil Society, because above all we are interested in upgrading, but above all in defending the quality of life of citizens. So, in cooperation with all these bodies, but also with the Civil Society, we are moving forward so that we can shield the urban fabric environmentally and leave behind any weaknesses that exist in the system, whether industrial or control. We're on top, we fix them, and that's how we move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the thirteenth third, with number 598/22-3-2021, a topical question by MP SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Selective second-round second-roundings of IAKE officials at the Organisation of Urban Communications of Thessaloniki (OSTH)". The Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Yiannis Kefaloyiannis. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u46	Minister, with your permission, can I come to Stepma because of glasses I can't use the mask?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u47	Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you can come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. I hope that I will remain in embassy and not in political embassy. I would also like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. For, Mr Kefaliannis, I must acknowledge that you are much more effective and harder opponent, but much more honest and honest, without the sterile repetition of an anti-SYRIZA and anti-productive rhetoric represented by the chief minister, Mr Karamanlis. And this as an introduction and answer to the question: "Why do we go back to OSH and urban transport?" For only ten months ago, Minister, it took the Mitsotakis Government ten months to admit that the virus is being passed on to buses, public transport and metro. For just a short time ago, in October 2020, Mr Karamanlis had the political improperness, as he does, to say, in an arrogant style, that there are no posted drivers on the right and left. Because we are interested in the health and safe transport of passengers. Because, Minister, I have to tell you that OSH buses are currently on the market in Thessaloniki. It is denounced by the workers whom you are also deceiving as a ministry, but also by the undocumented administration of the OSH with Mr. Skodra. You deceive them and hold them hostages and threatened, not fulfilling essential obligations of the working conditions. In fact, Mr Karamanlis had stressed that there is no need for windows and that there is an air-conditioning system, which, however, did not work, as the workers themselves say. At the same time - I describe to the question - the auditors of the OSTH for the last three, four weeks, have been wearing masks for control, without the distances of the two measures, which was not the case in the previous period because the pandemic, which recurs as a given, was on the rise. That is why we are entering the question. On the basis of the evidence we have, there are a hundred seventy - seven distractions of drivers, a fighter of specialty, which would help tighten up the routes and to OSH. Nevertheless, most of them continue to move to office seats or to other services, so that the ultimate goal of safe passenger transport is not achieved. We ask: Why and to what extent is this happening? There is another reading, which, if you wish, we will discuss, on these tragic incidents in connection with the OSH administration, the political origin of the favoured and the result. Let's start with the main question: How many drivers and what other fighters have moved to office at the time of the pandemic war? I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u49	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I regret that your party has unfortunately been in the last few days, in the absence of a specific political direction, made progress in a disaster and in a breakthrough. Last week, we were listening to make news and self-tests, that is to say, it would be a photographic provision for 'SIEMENS' and we just saw yesterday that thirty one proposals were tabled and nowhere was 'SIEMENS'. Even today we are expecting at least an apology from the Anti-Population Officer's party for all this, which tried to disperse over the previous period. But catastrophe comes from your bus strains too. You remember in this Chamber, Mr Colleague, you were telling us about three hundred buses which the Court of Auditors had cut off and only last week gave the green light to be able to circulate normally on the streets of Athens, so that we can concentrate on the routes. However, I am going more specifically to the question you have put to me. Once again, I think that there is an opportunity to remind the Greeks and Greek women who are listening to the situation we received a year and a half ago in OSTH in Thessaloniki and for the actions we have taken over the past period as political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, both me and the Minister. Unfortunately, the distortion that occurred with Law 4482/2017 against the government of SYRIZA caused - unfortunately - adverse consequences for the transportation of Thessaloniki. I would remind you, Mr President, that almost five years ago, 2015-2019, there was no concern about the renewal of the Agency's rolling stock, which, unfortunately, led to the complete dismantling of urban transport in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. I would also remind you of the body of complaints that the previous administration has launched against workers - of course the Justice has rejected them - and the body of a punishable movement, which, of course, caused serious problems in Thessaloniki and in OSH. I would remind you: In July 2019 there were two hundred thirteen buses in Thessaloniki, from about four hundred, received by the previous administration in 2015. Today we speak on a daily basis is more than four hundred. I mean, we increased the fleet to about 100%. The drivers were inactive, because very simply there were no buses driving and, unfortunately, on a daily basis a hundred and fifty drivers, just because there were just two hundred thirteen buses, they actually remained without duties. That is why there has been a secondment of staff to some of the other directorates of the agency, because I think we will agree that they should be workers and be inactive, certainly not in the right direction. Of course, there were drivers who were also qualified, and that is why they were seconded to administrative posts, as well as medical cases, because of a problem they could not catch the wheel. But I am telling you, Mr President, today - that if you wish - that now that the fleet has increased, and therefore there are more buses to OSH, there will be actions by the administration and many of them will return to the wheel, precisely to get out even more routes. In order to do so, Mr President - and I shall close with that, Mr President - the great difference in the way in which today's administration operates in relation to Mr Papapas's administration, I shall tell you the following: The choices made by the Heads of Departments and Responsible Offices have been made in accordance with all the legal procedures provided for in the Agency's Rules of Procedure, i.e. internal statement of positions, candidatures, judgement by the Chief Executive and judgment of successful objections by the Second-State Board. In fact, I will table these decisions in the Minutes and you will see that the vast majority of the choices have not even been made. There were some objections that were decided by the secondary board. Let me stress - for the people to listen to us too - that both primary and secondary are two representatives of workers. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] As far as the second part of the question is concerned, I shall answer my second question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Kefaliannis, I will not withdraw my appreciation, my sense of your political presence and your political profile. I just want to remind you that from this Step, from the sacred Step of the House, the greatest political vulgarity and poaching in terms of dispersal and use of false news with the one representing the Vice-President of the New Democracy and the serious Minister of Development, who has tabled a wide picture as a presumption of parliamentary dialogue. I would suggest - I am not personally addressing myself, but to all your colleagues - greater modesty when you talk about dispersing false news, you - not you personally - who have acquired incredible skills in cannibalism, falsification, misinformation, distortion of events. So don't swing the finger on the victims of this distortion, because it's still fresh in the picture, squeezing the fake photo, with the use of cathedrals and guilty by the Vice President of the New Democracy trying to hurt the former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. Now I'm actually coming to the point. Mr Minister, it is gratifying that in the last part of your reply you have included the question contained in the current question. I do not want to reopen the debate on OSH, because - I will tell you a simple example - if you do not admit that the country went bankrupt in 2009, you will never admit that in 2016 the OSH went bankrupt because of its opaque operation. He's in debt! The only alternative went bankrupt, like Greece in 2009. And the only alternative was what was done, so that two and a half thousand workers would not be thrown out on the street and the city would stay out of transportation. Are you scratching on the slut, all the time? One more thing. Give me a simple, human, reasonable explanation. As for people conspiring on the metro docks, at the stops of urban buses, since things are as well as they are described in Mr Karamanlis's 'dreamland', what is happening in their minds? Are they addicted to co-mortem, crowded, and going to glue COVID -19? How does that turn out? Explain to us at last. Is this a peculiar masochist relationship between the citizen and transport? Have you not felt the need, at some point, to explain 'for crowding, for concentrating, for broadcasting what we are doing, what were our direct interventions'? In October 2020, Mr Karamanlis said that it was in 5% of routes full of 65%! But the stones are also laughing at what's actually happening, Mr. Kefaliannis! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. I am pleased, therefore, that drivers will return to the battle of passenger transport as bus drivers, but I am sorry to have to remind you that buses were also to be repaired in Athens and Thessaloniki. You didn't. You have chosen the Lizing method with the CATELs. The Court of Auditors withdrew its order. However, the provision has been made, Mr Minister. He ordered, imposed the withdrawal of three hundred buses, which endangered the health of passengers. We cannot make these reasonable leaps and say: the Court of Auditors has withdrawn. But when he caused the end of the procedure, what was it then? Monday? [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I shall close, Mr President, with your tolerance. To the OSTH fatal coincidence! I can't think of anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Comrade, please hang up. You've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u54	I shall now conclude, Mr President. How, though, can the eleven members of the people who are politically confronted with your place, the IAEA, who work in OSH, have the eight left the street and moved to offices? The driver has moved, Minister, for your information and he has become the head of electrics. Four drivers were moved to the traffic offices, take out work programs. One was formerly chief for the cars of disabled people. There had been complaints about the way he was working and a colleague with a TEI degree was placed. He's back. A secondary school driver became a trainer in charge. With what standard qualifications can you tell me? A card vendor - I don't underestimate the role - moved to office at the Income Assurance Department. All these moves, Mr Minister, I tell you really, with good intention, to heal them - they took place in retrospect, with the approval of the Service Council. I am tabling once again and I am closing two documents, two documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u55	You've been in six minutes, Mr. Comrade, and you spoke and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u56	Two seconds, Mr. President. It's about a million citizens. I am once again presenting in the Minutes the public apologies of Mr Karaoglou, the Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, in the summer of 2019, for apologiing for the previous administration of the OSH for what he slandered in an interview with him. It's the third time I've been doing this in Parliament and you don't think about minding, especially your chief minister. This statement - to be made public - says: "I call on the mismanagement and corruption to OSH during the period when those as if they were part of his administration, during the period when OSH arrived at the Greek State".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Giannoulis, testify, please! You can't talk for seven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u58	Third time I testify. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much and apologise, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u59	Seven minutes and three minutes ago, ten minutes total. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u60	A million people deserve it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u61	But it doesn't matter. The concept of parliamentary control is that. There's a tolerance, I'm not saying, but not like that. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I would really like there to be more time to judge us, indeed, the citizens of Thessaloniki, because I think it is very easy to compare what was happening in the government of SYRIZA with what is happening now, in the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and how we have once again, I will say it, trying to put up the fleet in Thessaloniki for two hundred thirteen buses - the reality is disturbing, Mr Giannoulis, but this is - July 2019 and today, on a daily basis, four hundred buses and, indeed, buses, which are constantly being renewed. You know very well that there is both in the air and the call for competition - in the next few weeks, in fact, it will also be officially because it is in the consultation - for the renewal of the fleet both in Athens and Thessaloniki. So more and more we'll see better services in Thessaloniki. Now, with regard to the second part of your question, Mr Colleague, you will allow me to tell you that it is politically provocative, because you are actually targeting political or party beliefs on the Agency, and that is why I will be relatively brief. The Ministry's political leadership, as well as the OSH administration, are not interested in the workers' political or party views. For us, they are all the workers themselves. The present political leadership - and I am sure that the OSH administration - does not disguise and prevent anyone from slapping workers and targeting them in particular, as you, unfortunately, are, as an exception. Obviously, the moves - because we are not talking about abstractions, internal movements - are, on many occasions, the notion of secondment can refer us to the fact that they come out of an organization - they concern workers of all party backgrounds. I have tabled in the Minutes in particular that the overwhelming majority of the moves did not raise any objections. What does that mean? Evidently, the workers themselves have accepted the need for this. So, Mr President, all internal secondments - moves have been made in the legal way and all the procedures laid down in the Agency's regulation. Of course, it aims - as I have said before - to better manage human resources. I repeat: one hundred and fifty bus drivers were inactive, precisely because there were no buses coming out on the streets. All positions of Heads of State and, of course, of directors were taken again by legal procedures. But I have a good opportunity to say - I will close with that, Mr President - how it was managed in terms of maintenance over the previous government. As you have tabled, I will formally submit them to the Minutes. On SYRIZA, unfortunately the management of OSTH's supplies included a large number of divisions of direct awards which, unfortunately, have yielded irritable obligations to OSH, which have often been unjustly committed. I shall submit to the Proceedings of the Administrative Courts of Thessaloniki which say this very thing, but the most shocking, my colleague, is - I shall submit it - a March 2019 document on the previous government of the Director of Economic Services, Mr Zarifi, who says: 'The prices of these markets are far greater than those mentioned in the respective orders. Similarly, in the same way, they were purchased by the Conservation Department of species for which there were no pending orders. There are a large number of orders from suppliers where delivery dates have expired. But you were ordering, but you were buying, at other prices, the orders, but you were paying." I present OSTH's official document to understand how the commissions were made by Papa in Thessaloniki. This document normally understands which way it should go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the question with number 585/19-3-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Communist Party Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "The evolution of the High School of Education and Technology (SPATE)" The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Evangelos Syrigos will answer. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u64	As the President said a moment ago, our question concerns the High School of Education and Technology, also known as ASPATE for most. This is, Minister, a multipathic institution, which has suffered over time the consequences of the anti-educational policy of all governments. Since 1959, because it has been established, as a SELE at that time, until now it is, in fact, an institution that has been appointed to administer management and, of course, this situation literally leaves both students and teachers and other staff of the school in the air. After a circle of recent years, a cycle of endless, seniorizations, "ATHENA", universities and so on. from the governments that have spent the last few years, you know that ASPATE, based on the recent announcements by the Ministry of Education about the new framework law, which prepares for higher education, is at risk of being degraded today to a three-year, two-year, or one-year training institution. This scenario is not, of course, taken out of our head, and it is not really what it is, as the teaching competence is now a marketable educational product, which has been removed from the undergraduate circles of many university departments and, of course, is available on the educational market, which is constantly growing on payment, of course. In view of all the above, we ask you what your Government intends to do, Mr Minister, in order to ensure that all the conditions are met for permanent teaching staff and other staff, in infrastructure, in upgraded single curriculum programmes, so that UNDPTE can be a university institution, assigning corresponding university degrees and, of course, ensuring the award of educational competence under a proficiency, included in the curriculum, without tuition or other conditions for those of natural students who wish to acquire it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will fully agree with the designation you said about the multi-pathic institution. I'm talking about S.H.I.E.L.D., who rightly mentioned the story of how it started as a SELTE at another time. Let me remind you, of course, that ASPATE remained outside the university sector on the Gavroglou mandate. In other words, regardless of the position of the New Democracy at the time, which was against all that was done at the Gavroglou, the ununiversity of ASPATE is not due to the current government, but to the choices made at the time. I don't have much to say. I shall begin with the issue of pedagogical competence, which you raise and which is a serious issue. The school consists of four sections: the Department of Educational Electrical Engineering, the Department of Educational Engineering, the Department of Educational Engineering and the Educational Department. Especially the Pedagogical Department does not award a degree. So, theoretically, here is the problem with adequacy. Be careful, however, because teaching courses are taught in the other undergraduate departments of ASEPTE, for this reason, the degree awarded by the undergraduate departments of ASETE confers the right to teach in speciality, secondary education and is a diploma of professional expertise, which, in fact, is equal to those of the TEI. So the degree incorporates two titles: the title of teacher and professional qualification. It is also acquired after 10 academic six months, including two semesters for the preparation of a proficiency and a practice in specialization. So, with regard to the second question you raise, that is to say, whether the award of undergraduate education is guaranteed, it is awarded by the establishment of ASEAN and, to date, pedagogical competence in the undergraduate programmes, without tuition, of course. As to your first question, the head of the Ministry of Education is already in contact with ASPATE. I have also met with the leadership of ASPATE, the presidium of ASPATE, but also with the APATE graduates' association last week, who care about their old department and who I know have met with the Minister. They're in consultation with the National Authority for Higher Education, they've submitted their proposals and I expect to see the proposals of the National Authority. I'm not in a position right now to tell you more. We're watching this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u68	We would expect to hear more about the first question, the question at issue, which is the most critical, because there is a great anxiety in the field in general, and we are also moving about the future of this School. There is a lot of things going on, there is a framework law, and you could, in any case, be more precise here - and you have a second-guess - in relation to the objective of anyway of this government. Why, yes, you said that this arrangement, namely to stay out of all these universities, was a work of SYRIZA, a work of Mr Gabrieloglou - but that could be cured by New Democracy. In any case, because we do not like to see them so closely and so personally, we think it is the result of a whole educational strategy which is being prepared at European Union level. She was the one that Mr. Gavroglou and Mr. Friend. This is what today's political leadership of the Ministry of Education is, of course, taking place, with the specificities and the variations and the few margins that each party can have, which the government is taking on. There is - I imagine you are aware of it - an entire proposal from the Association of Educational Technicians of Greece for the University of Athens to convert it to a University Foundation as the model of Harocots in Piraeus or as an alternative to its integration as a School of Autonomousity in the EKRF. I do not know what the current government thinks about this issue, but there are also some other crucial issues, which we think are affecting the future of this school. Such a plot is the excellent plot, to which this School belongs, in fact it is on the same site as the Ministry of Education, for those who know it in Maroussi, that is very important. It is a plot that can be exploited by the School, i.e. it has spaces to develop and infrastructure, even sporting spaces for students, only those spaces from 2012 now belong to the U.S.H.A., and have been bound by the TIADE for use, he says. We know what that means. In addition, there is the appointed administration, which is essentially a brake on the collective procedures of both teachers and other staff. In any case, these all accumulate a problem of operation today, but above all create many questions, many questions and great anxiety about the future of this school. We would like a more concrete answer here about what the Greek Government sees - the present - for the future of SAPATE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I should like to clarify something at the moment that I forgot to say in my prototype. The operator's grant for its operating expenditure for the year 2021 amounts to EUR 724,000, so at the moment there is provision for the operator to run properly, without any problem. I say this in relation to the anxiety about the future that you have said. Now, unfortunately, I am unable to tell you any more, because as I have said, we are in consultation with the administration of ASPATE and with the entire academic community of the School and with the president of the NISAE. We are trying to see overall what is happening with the country's map in this case, in relation to the many university schools that have been set up. Let's not forget that, before Mr. Gavroglou, since 1983, the school's mission coincided with that of the Technical Education Institutions, so she had a parallel provision of teaching instruction to her students, which promoted applied research. We're all studying this. When I'm in a position, I'll answer you. In any case, announcements will be made from the head of the Ministry of Education in general as to what will happen with the future of SAPATE. Right now, we're in a phase that we're waiting for proposals from NAFTA to see it as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too, Minister. The following is the seventh under number 582/19-3-2021 topical question of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Change Movement Mr. Charulas Keftridou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Panadeia - the closure of school units - the risk of learning losses - worrying mental burden of students". The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zoe Macrey, will answer. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering in April tomorrow. The pandemic has become part of all our lives and, as the cases show, it is tested and for many it is questioned daily. Younger ages and children are showing more resilient at the moment, but they are asymptomatic agents, which means that they easily transmit the disease and do not know in a subsequent mutation of the virus how to respond. Most schools are basically closed. If we put it in last year, it's about a year or so. Today's topical question is not about blaming the Ministry, creating opposition noise or making any fancy title for the media. I find it very critical at the time of this. My question, Minister, aims to highlight - as early as possible - and to wake up the Ministry of Education on a huge issue that, if we do not move quickly, we will find it in the worst way, and its results in time that we can only regret the disability which we will have created to the children of the pandemic. With scientific data on the course of COVID -19, which seems to remain with us long enough to show that we will not return to the normality which we also knew in this new regularity, which is still unknown, we will also be called upon to face enormous difficulties in the field of education. So, if we don't want to lean behind developments, now is the time to take steps and build our arsenal to deal with any new pandemic, whatever new mutation. The existing European studies demonstrate the impact of pandemic on mental health of children and adolescents. UNICEF speaks of 60% of children concerned with the impact that the coronary will have on their lives. The Foundation for Public Health in Belgium says that children between eighteen and twenty-four years of age have stress and depression. In our country, three out of four teachers state that their quarantine has created negative psychological conditions. The students themselves are talking about stress, routine, boredom, loneliness. As you can see, all this shows that tele-education - as it is done - is rather psychotrophic and aggravating for students who complain of fatigue, without the corresponding recompense. These are, therefore, the main conclusions of European research, that the learning of children - that is the conclusion - is expected on average to be regressive. In view of these new data, the question is: First, what exactly is the state doing? To what design does the Ministry of Education go on to cover the learning gaps already created in pupils? Secondly, how will you deal with the alarming mental burden on students as a result of the prolonged removal from school halls and the substitution of the entire education process from teleinstruction? Thirdly, how is the Ministry prepared to deal with the possible scenario for schools to be closed for longer or later? Is he preparing or going to continue his tactics by "seeing and doing"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u73	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleague, let's start with a basic assumption that nothing can replace living education. However, where, for objective reasons, this is not possible, as is the case now because of the pandemic, telecommunications is a dynamic process and an important tool for the continuation of the educational process. The Ministry has carried out an integrated planning for the implementation of telecommunications. Since the beginning of the health crisis, IPP sent material to schools, detailed instructions for material coverage and planning of the new school year, already in September 2020, guidelines for individual courses and responded to all the questions of teachers. It also sent guidance on distance examinations in secondary education, a recommendation on cutting a particular material, up-to-date and detailed guidance on municipality. On 4-32021 the IEP sent an IEP act to all regional education directors, training coordinators, regional unit managers, managers, Heads and teaching staff of the public and private school units of the country, which includes a multi-page and detailed framework of proposals and guidelines for the training and management of the material of the pandemic municipal school. In addition, our Ministry, in collaboration with ITHY Profantos and the IEP, has already asked the school units to register the material taught in two phases, 18-3-2021 and 18-4-2021 respectively, in order to submit a direct recommendation with guidance on the planning of the educational project by the end of the current school year. The recommendation will provide guidance on covering any learning gaps. Our Ministry, too, since the start of the crisis, has been very closely following the learning and psychosociative results from the implementation of distance learning. Already from the previous year at 11-5-2020, the first electronic form was approved, which provided guidance to facilitate the smooth transition to order after the suspension of the lifelong learning process. This form describes the axes for the reinforcement and support of pupils. There were activities that were exploited by teachers to support psychological support for pupils and pupils. Also, with the Ministry's circular, the EMCDDA's School Psychology Laboratory's electronic form for the psychiatric support and adaptation of students during the pandemic period was communicated to schools. Throughout the period, the IPU, following studies, has conducted and issued relevant guidance on the guidance of the educational community to manage the psychosocial impacts on pupils and teachers due to their removal from the life of education. The IPA, in collaboration with the School Psychology Laboratory of the ERCF, organised educational training seminars for psychologists recruited this year. Furthermore, our Ministry, always in collaboration with the IPA and the above-mentioned School Psychology Laboratory of the ERCF, design and implement research on the effects of the pandemic, the learning results and the psychosocial development of pupils and students, while at the same time investigating the positive results of the digital transformation of the educational process from tele-education. Quantitative and qualitative tools are used, aimed at teachers and parents of general and special education, primary and secondary education, and secondary schools and pupils of secondary education. The research is in the process of piloting its quality component and the first results are expected in the coming months. In my dentistry, I'm going to give you precise numbers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u75	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u76	Minister, I felt my obligation, as the head of education of the Change Movement, to present this question on Friday, March 19th, and indeed, I was very pleased when I saw the daily press announcing the issue. The Ministry's reflexes in this case were extremely fast. I hope, of course, this time not to confine themselves to the communication level of the titles, but to obtain substance. But your answer, I have to tell you, keeps me alert. You know we started the new year without any teacher training. You're talking about the LAPD. How exactly is the EPA prepared for quality supplementation? You also said that it would be covered in some way by the curriculum which you have achieved and reduced. On the paper? Do you remember what is actually happening? Do you know that in the vast majority of students during tele-education, from tiredness, from boredom, don't actually monitor and can't assimilate the matter? What evaluation can one do in a distance lesson, whether that is sufficient or really has the results we want? You have also not answered what you will do if a new lockdown is necessary. These pandemic children cannot be sacrificed as unjust paradoxical losses. Prepare to do research - and you will do very well - to record how the matter is assimilated. But I'm telling you, you don't have time. You're late. You have been prevented by European data and what you are planning to discover now, through research, is already printed throughout the international environment. There's no time to be lost another year, and that's why I'm telling you we're sceptical. The quick reflexes are good, but they are unnecessarily limited to announcements about the newspapers. We don't have to take a generation into our necks. We need to work. Here, of course, you won't find the wheel. It's true. I will give you an example, which has made a lot of impression and is how effective televised is in hundreds of university programs, where material assimilation is tested in real time by the instructor per quarter. The interest of the student is kept alive throughout the tradition, through invasive questions, through experiential approaches. The lesson becomes really alive and children, eventually, seem to learn, easier through such a living way. You don't start at zero. That's for sure. There is already material adapted to the needs of education, but the way of teaching and infrastructure in regional tools needs serious support. The months to come give you the last chance to organize televisual instruction with excellence, so that it is difficult to replace, with elementary competence, the "living" class and, at the same time, to open schools to be an excellent educational tool for each teacher and every student. Today the opposition, the one that is not fascinated by the pavement and the squares, nor by Mr Koufantina's struggles, makes you a proposal. It gives you the opportunity to get better, to rule better. Instead of looking at how you can get any more titles in the newspapers, grab the opportunity, get out front, something that will make the country get out front. That is what we expect, that is what we hope of you and hope that we have an answer from you much more targeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I think that dedication that we are looking at making headlines for the sites and newspapers is too unfair for the work of you who are decent - and today you have been decent - I did not expect it. I reply to your questions, as you have put them in your current question, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. If you add more to dentology and protology, I regret, but the answer will be concise, because you know much better than me, that time is limited, and I must not abuse much. So I say to you that we have a picture of whether the matter has been covered, a daily picture. The matter has been covered. If there is to be an extension of the school year, it will not be because the material has not been covered, but because there is also a need for assimilation and the interaction of pupils and pupils with the educational environment. I also say to you that we all wish that there is no reason to continue distance education, but the Ministry is ready for all the scenarios, as experts will point them out. I will therefore give you, as I have said in my protology, facts and figures, which demonstrate the targeted design of our Ministry for the strengthening of school units with staff, in order to support psychosociatively all the educational community and those involved in the educational process. In addition to completing the appointments of forty-four members of Special Educational Personnel and Special Assistant for the Schools of Special Education and Education in the framework of ASE/2019 and 2EA/2019 of ASP, of which thirty-four members were involved in a branch of IP23 Psychologists in Primary and Secondary Special Education Units, in addition for the school year 2020-2021, a thousand seven hundred fifty-four alternates - members of the Special Educational Staff of the IP23 Psychologists for all programmes and can be employed throughout the territory for the purpose of serving the School Primary and Secondary Education Units, in accordance with the programme of the EESC for the School Units of Special Education and Education, for the Special Education and Training Centres for the Greek Schools of Education and Education. It should be noted that these are most recruitments that have taken place in relation to previous school years. For the new school year 2020-2021, following the appointments referred to above, the Ministry, aiming at the establishment of the school units and special treatment structures to meet the needs of the apprenticeship population as much as possible, has so far carried out six thousand eight hundred nine recruitments of Deputys - Members of Special Educational and Special Assistant. Primary education was strengthened by special educational staff, contributing to the resolution of the problems caused by the pandemic for the psychosocial support of the educational community and facilitating adaptation to the new conditions. Groups of school units were designated, where for 2020-2021 tasks were carried out by members of the Special Educational Staff of the IP23 Psychologists and IP30 Social Officers allocated in accordance with the proposals of the Regional Education Managers. In addition, a group of psychologists from the Association of Greek psychologists was set up to support the work of the psychologists of special educational staff of the IP23 and were announced on 28-01-2021 training seminars for newly recruited psychologists and social workers on the subject: "Return to school and enhance mental resilience in the period of COVID19." The aim is to adapt them to issues of psycho-emotional and social support due to the conditions caused by the pandemic. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. We are now entering the next four topical questions which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. The first is the second with number 575/19-3-2021 topical question from the first cycle of the Parliamentary B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The General Hospital "The General Hospital "BYIA VARVARVARA", weakened, gives battle against pandemic". Mrs Kafantaris has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the third topical question which I personally address to you - it happened to you to answer both previous ones - on the major issue of West Athens, the issue of the "Agia Barbara" Hospital, the ex-Limonian. In fact, we have said too many times about the importance of the hospital for the wider area. I won't repeat it. I will just say that in 2013, Mr. Georgiadis, your predecessor in the field of health, basically closed this hospital. However, it has remained operational because of mobilisation and a large part of local government - I will not say all - of the wider region, because of the need and the struggle that the people of this region have done. But the question I am presenting today - and I would like to see specific answers - is on the subject of pandemic and how this hospital contributes to the fight against pandemic. In a timely question, which we had asked on 4 March about western Athens and the pandemic, the issue was debated again. But today I will ask two specific questions, which I believe reflect the general situation. The hospital was able to operate the First Pathological Clinic after the interventions made by SYRIZA government, and some issues were settled about urban violations. So it was possible to build and operate the First Pathological Clinic, which has fifty two beds. On 12 March a patient was invaded by a physician of other specialties than anestheticologist. This patient remained intubated in a single bed. Now, of course, twenty days later, unfortunately, due to your government's policy on health, many intangible patients are both out of the ICU and in simple beds. On the basis of the above, we ask the following question. We had reminded you in the question of 19-06-2020 the need for a permanent, 24-hour, anestheticist base in the hospital. This has not been possible. This anestheticist, who is "charged" to the hospitals of "Agia Varvaras", serves elsewhere. He's not in the hospital. There is a direct need for the functioning of the COVID wing, in which the hospital makes a significant contribution to the so-called light incidents. Although in COVID light incidents are relevant. It can be done in a few minutes very seriously. The question is when will there be an anesthesiologist in the hospital. The second question we ask is about vaccinations. It's a serious matter. You announced ten vaccination sites in the hospital which will serve this area. But at the moment, there is only one point where vaccination is being carried out. The consequence of this is that people in the area generally go far away from home. Until now, they were elderly those who were in the series of vaccinations. They are moved and afflicted. When will the ten points that you announced be sent to and immediately operated? I note that health visitors had also come for these ten points, which have been working elsewhere for two or three months and are not in this area for the treatment of vaccinations. These are the first two questions. The rest I'll see you in dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, first of all the value of the National Health System has recognized it very early, long before the pandemic. That is why we prepared appropriately and continue to do so. During the one year that this pandemic lasts, we have managed to strengthen the National Health System and meet increased needs. Let me remind you, because you're referring to intensive care units, that we're more than doubled. So you realise what would happen in the country if we had not created these critical structures in order to deal with the incidents. Let me remind you, because you referred to the timely question of West Attica, that we had then referred to the operation of the Mega vaccination centre in Peristeri, which starts its operation and will serve the needs of this wider region. I shall also refer to the vaccination centres at the "Saint Barbara" Hospital. Indeed, at the "Saint Barbara" Hospital we have been mentioned several times before and we have exhausted the matter, let me say. We've said what we have to do, what we've done, how we're going to move on. Of course, we all recognise that the pandemic has not allowed us to implement to the maximum our design for the operation of this plant, but we are exploiting it. Yes, there was a process of your own governance with regard to the settlement of certain urban issues. This pathological unit is interconnected with the Atticon Hospital and with a specific clinic, where Professor Bubas and other worthwhile doctors have the scientific responsibility for operating this clinic. In fact, the experience of the management of the coronary and the scientific interconnection of the Pathological Clinic with the Attica Hospital has led us and we are considering the case, we are planning the possibility that the unit of "Agia Barbara" may be interconnected with the Attica Hospital as soon as we overcome the battle of the pandemic. At the same time, the unit of "Saint Barbara" continues and provides health services to patients who do not suffer from coronary diseases. In the artificial kidney unit we have actually said that we will increase the jobs and shifts in order to serve more people. It currently continues to work and serves patients. At the same time, we also set up a vaccination centre for the better service of the citizens of western Athens. It had run a vaccination line and eight more will be added on April 3. They're coming to add to the Mega vaccination centre in the area. In order to carry out the vaccinations, we have recruited ancillary and nursing staff to enhance the functioning of the vaccination centres and to develop the vaccination lines. We all know, Mrs Kafantaris, that there are no doctors left out at this stage. Our intention is to make proper use of the medical - and not just - staff, nurses and other staff. Doctor anesthesiologist has indeed been hired and served at the hospital in Nice right now, where the needs are greater. I would stress, because you mentioned that "Saint Barbara" is not hospitalized by imprisoned patients, nor will they be hospitalized. There was also a trade union notice, which is not accurate. Therefore, in any case, doctors serving adequately meet the needs of CIVID. If the presence of an anaesthetic or a doctor is required, he is directly available from the hospital in Nice. Once again, the great scientific work offered by the Athens Hospital's university clinic, which has the scientific responsibility for the functioning of the pathological clinic at the hospital "Agia Varvara". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too, Minister. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u84	Minister, third time question, with vagueness and ambiguity. My time is a bit short. You mentioned that we know what the government has done for the public health system. Yes, of course, we also know people live it every day. You simply referred to an incident which is a fact, Minister: a man was evacuated on 12 March and remained in a simple bed, by a doctor of another speciality. Here I would also like to say public congratulations and how people are at risk in the ESS, doctors and nurses, to relieve people of this situation. Minister, the vaccinations in West Athens, based on official figures on 27 March, are twenty-two thousand six hundred sixty-three. They are the ones who have done the second dose. A total of sixty - six thousand ten - four vaccinations have been carried out. The twenty-two thousand sixty-three is with the second dose. In an area that, based on the 2011 census, had four hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants but now exceeds eight hundred with nine hundred thousand, we understand the importance and the low number of vaccinations. Do not triumph, then, as a government about how vaccinations are progressing especially in western Athens. Secondly, we said it was ten. It works one. You said it would work another eight or nine, I don't remember. A total of nine runs. What does that mean, Mr. Contozamani? It means eighteen doctors on two shifts, nine and nine, eighteen. There'll be eighteen doctors on April 5th? Because that's how the vaccination centres happen. It means over 20 nurses, because that's how the vaccination centers are. They'll be there on 3rd or 5th of April? I don't remember when you talked. These are specific commitments, because I fear, once again, that it will be an announcement and a more general commitment, without realising it. You mentioned before in the artificial kidney unit. You told us in June 2020 that there would be doctors, that they would be strengthened. Right now they're dripping water from the space that's the artificial kidney unit. At the moment, this clinic is part of the Pathology of Nice, because the hospital of Agia Varvara is interconnected with Nice. So, what's the reality? You have done nothing for ten months and the pandemic at the moment does not justify the need to strengthen this nursing establishment, especially the artificial kidney unit, which is very important and must operate on two shifts. Of course, you, Minister, also made a news. Right now it's interconnected with the Nice General. Did you tell us there was going to be an Attica connection? Is this the case? If it is, you should tell us in your dentistry and see how it works. However, the most important thing is that you should pay particular attention to a hospital, which acts as a supplement and meets the conditions of the pandemic, to substantially strengthen it. At the external medical offices a few steps have been taken. The artificial kidney unit operates with the specifications required, to have an anaesthetic in the hospital, Mr. Minister, because when a person is in danger and needs intubation, the seven minutes that an ambulance can take him to Nice or Attica is the time in which life can be lost. Unfortunately, we have been experiencing many such incidents recently.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u85	Finish it, Mrs. Kafantari. You've been all in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u86	As regards vaccinations, you must strengthen with doctors and nurses the vaccination centres. To be honest with the announcement and to move this whole process forward. We'd like some answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, you referred to the number of our vaccinated fellow citizens in western Athens and I will repeat it again because the number had been said in the context of the timely question. I specifically mentioned the number of vaccinated persons. I pointed out in my answer to that timely question, which you put, that a West Attica resident might have moved to another place at the time when he was running a vaccination centre. I remind you of the Mega Vaccine Center at "HELEXPO" in Maroussi, which serves the inhabitants of all Attica. Therefore, don't see it just geographically. There's more vaccination in the area. I said then, which is what is happening, that the Mega Vaccine Center in Peristeri will be opened. So under no circumstances do these numbers actually respond, because people may have moved to another place to make the vaccine, which they had to do at that time. Surely with Mega Vaccine Center in Peristeri this area will be served even better. I told you that staff recruitment has gone ahead in order to operate the additional vaccination lines. I told you that after 3 April these vaccination lines will begin and, if you like, we can go together and see where they will work and serve the world. I mentioned - you mentioned it - the interconnection of the Hospital of Nice. Indeed, we consider scientific interconnection at this time of the Pathological Clinic with Attica Hospital to be very successful. In fact, I said it and I say it again, we are considering the possibility - we are closing in this direction - so that the Nice Hospital is entirely linked to the Attica Hospital. Careful planning is made so that the hospital can make maximum use of its capabilities and maximize the provision of services to all citizens in the region. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too, Minister. The second question, with number 576/19-3-2021, will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP B2' Western Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Publishing the Practical Practices of the Committee on the Management of Extended Public Health Contracts". And it will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Curublis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there have been very many discussions on how the famous Committee of Experts operates. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the World Agency, with its express proposals, addressed to the Member States, stressed the need for transparency in the procedures for dealing with the pandemic. Based on this transparency, the relationship of trust between the citizen and the institutions that operate or are created should be built. So it started - quite rightly - the process by the Greek state to set up a committee, the famous committee of the EGE. Instead of having a transparent process in selecting people, in order to establish this relationship of citizens' confidence in this new institution, you have chosen - not the good ones - the parties in particular. This is demonstrated in the course of things. This is a committee, Minister, which does not involve any institutions, such as the ERCF, the Committee on Medicinal Products, the Committee on Negotiations, a committee that operates as a seven-handed secret, without any possibility of informing the political parties at least other relevant institutions. This is a committee which, in the final analysis, does not have to deal with an internal issue, Minister, of a disease, but with a pandemic that affects and affects the lives of eight, ten, twelve million people in the country, a committee which, if its decisions are taken outwards correctly - because we have other issues which have subsequently arisen, I shall refer to them - has to do with the development of the economy. In other words, the committee is charging a large proportion of its pandemic and expansion to the crowds, to the people's meetings and has charged retail trade as a source of the pandemic and its transmission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u91	You will continue, Mr. Kurubli, in your dentistry. You've been in four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u92	Yes, Mr President, but you do not have an equal time for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u93	Deal, but we have too many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u94	Mr. President, you know how much I respect you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u95	Please, but continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u96	Oh, no! It's not like that! You've given most of you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u97	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u98	So, how is it going to be now? And on such a crucial issue is it bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u99	Please don't say that. It's not bothering me, I'm just making a recommendation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u100	You'll let me develop my thinking as you did to everyone else. Honestly, I don't want to argue with you because you know I appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u101	Mrs. Kafantari was the only one who spent time, but all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u102	But what you are doing is not right, Mr President. So let me go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u103	Come on, keep going. Just finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u104	Yeah, I'll finish. This is a committee which, Minister, affects, as I have said, the issues of the economy, and instead of deinviating sectors of the economy, which could help to support the country and work hundreds of thousands of people, such as retailing and focusing, have been framed, without having been shown to be such a matter. This is a committee, Minister, for which you did not tell us if the country participated in these procedures in the European Union. Who have participated, how have participated and finally, what is the cost of this whole process for the country? These are issues for which we need to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u105	Good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u106	I conclude, Mr President, by addressing the Minister in the first place, and saying this: you are not telling us how many cases exist every day. You are not telling us how positive they are from rapid test and how positive they are from molecular tests and exactly where all these positives have been identified. It is an extremely useful issue, which is lacking from knowledge and from scientists and all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u107	Good. Mr. Kurubli, when I make a suggestion to shorten time, it concerns everyone. But when time is tripled, you realize that we will go too far. It's a lot of cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, if you were strict with everyone, I would have done it myself!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u109	Mrs. Kafantari only exceeded time. The world isn't lost. In any case, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kurublés, if you look at our earlier answers to current questions under parliamentary control, we have exhausted this issue, but I will answer you again. Before entering your question, you raised a number of questions, which I would also like to clarify. You mentioned first of all the vaccines. Let me remind you, because it has been said several times in the National Representation - perhaps because you have recently understood a position in Parliament, you can, please, in the Minutes - that we have been mentioned and exhausted the issue of vaccines. Our country has ensured vaccines for the whole population through its participation in the common European procurement. Also, with regard to the data you mention on molecular, rapid, diagnostic, and so on, the distribution of results - everything refers extensively and thoroughly to the Epidemiological report of the National Public Health Agency. This is a complete illustration of the situation and the management of the pandemic in our country. You referred to the Special Committee. I would also remind you that information for parties from the Ministry of Health as regards the management of the pandemic was and is regular and the government and the Ministry of Health first in favour of transparency. Let me say that the success of managing any crisis is absolutely linked to people. These people are responsible for roles and roles, with particular weight, such as those of the members of the Committee on the Representation of Extreme Public Health Contractors. Since the first time we had the beginning of the pandemic, the committee has been activated and formed with the participation of scientists of unknown value and prestige - thirty-three people are currently running the committee - as is the case in the rest of the world, scientists of unknown prestige and value. Of course, the work of the committee is assisted by bodies, as you mentioned, such as the National Medicines Agency and the National Health Agency, for whatever it may be necessary, because there are issues relating to the assistance of these agencies. A unique criterion for the participation of the members of the committee in it was their trust and capacity through it to contribute with their knowledge in the analysis of epidemiological data and to help make the right decisions leading to the control of the pandemic. In the last year the committee has consistently operated and processed all the data at each stage of the pandemic at its disposal. This work is not easy at all, having the eyes of all the citizens turned on it and feeling the pressure of public opinion from the suggestions he is asked to make to the government, which also takes decisions. It is easy to understand that we need a stand of responsibility and, above all, a distance from all of us, in order to ensure impartial and unaffected decision-making. The report by scientists - in any way that happens - is unacceptable and does not in any way help their work. On the contrary, I would say that it creates problems in the whole process. We must protect all the members of the committee, ensuring that they express their views and scientific approaches freely. The different approaches, and in particular their composition, are the one leading to the final report by the committee and it is the one leading to the Government's decisions to take all necessary measures to protect public health and to curb and treat the coronary pandemic. I want to be clear once again, Mr Kurubli. You're asking me if we're going to make the Minutes public. Responding again to the National Representation that they don't. I said this before, as I mentioned in a relevant timely question from your colleague Mr Xanthos. What I said back then also applies today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you can continue in your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President, and I shall continue to do so. We are in favour of transparency. But the confidentiality of the committee's practices is the necessary and appropriate treaty for the independence and openness of the members of the committee so that they can express themselves freely, without having a sense of fear of external pressure. This is also done in the courts and it is the secrecy of the conferences of the courts that ensures their operational independence. There is therefore no need to make the minutes public. It will not help anywhere and I would say that this repetitive demand on your part is obsessed. Thank you, Mr President, I shall continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u113	Here, Mr Kurubli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u114	Minister, nobody has asked for the names and personal placement of every scientist involved in this committee. It's another thing we're asking for. We ask for the decisions, we ask to see the majority and the minority, without the names of the people. Because you are well telling us, because as a government you have become addicted to a logic of beauty of everything - I will be placed on this subject too - but you must know, as you know, the position of members of the committee. You know very well what the professor of the University and Director of the ITH said recently in "Evangelism" and how concerned he can give rise to such a position, not only of the specific teacher but also of other members of the committee. Also, Minister, there is one question regarding the enlargement of the committee, which should have been extended on the basis of the issues that have arisen in the case of procedural matters and, more generally, in life. Now, with regard to what you have told us, that the parties are being informed, that is, that the parties have been informed about the meetings and what the committee decides? I do not think, Minister, that this is true. However, because, Minister, life does not stop, one should take into account Mrs Papaevangelou's statements of this famous 20% point, but also the one which came out last night in the BLOOMBERG communication, where Greece lost in a month twenty points in the ranking order. Because you may like to refer to the European countries, but yesterday BLOOMBERG put us at the end between the twenty countries of the European Union. So we are in a tragic situation and you insist, instead of overseeing all the major private clinics, instead of overseeing all the military beds and instead of renewing the contracts of auxiliary medical and nursing personnel. Also, instead of hiring doctors from the lists that exist, you get doctors from the so-called "private sector", who don't know how much they will actually offer and who were, after all, practicing a form of primary care. So you're transferring them to hospitals with very little chance of being offered to the ICUs because of the little knowledge or experience they have from these units. Also, Minister, I would like you to answer what you will do with the monoclonal antibodies. So far, you have told us that the European Agency did not approve them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The monoclonal antibodies can bring here not the healing of everything, but we all know a few things about this area we know that they can to a large extent discharge the virus into human body. We, as a country, need to extend our patronage in terms of such possibilities to limit the impact on people's lives. I'd ask for one more thing, Minister. I have heard that people inhabited, people who cannot be moved are addressed to the competent body and the answer they receive is that there is no care to be transferred to the vaccination centres. These people, Minister, cannot afford to be transferred to the vaccination centres. I would therefore like to ask you to look at this issue, because it is extremely sensitive and must be addressed immediately. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kourublis, I would ask you once again to refer to our practical responses under parliamentary control, as we have responded to all these issues, as well as to the relevant communications made by the Ministry of Health, the state mechanism, regularly, three times a week, through live interviews, through which it provides answers and clarifications on issues that have to do with the management of the pandemic. Let me repeat, then, once again that the committee's proposal is of course known, because it is based on this recommendation by the government to take any decisions. Secondly, with regard to monoclonal antibodies, we have said that our country will get monoclonal antibodies. We are involved in the common European procurement. Indeed, some of the monoclonal antibodies were approved in the European Union last month and Greece will receive monoclonal antibodies. Don't make any impressions where they don't exist. You refer to ancillary staff. In addition to the recruitment we have made to ancillary staff, which are more than eight thousand, they are currently serving in the system of more than ten thousand auxiliary staff, because we have extended the contracts of this staff until the end of October and in some cases by the end of December of this year. You referred to the doctors' lists in order to get a staff. If you look at the sites of the healthcare regions, you will find that there are no doctors. Whatever was there, we've hired it. We have moved not only on the recruitment of subsidiary staff, but also on the recruitment of permanent medical staff. I would remind you that more than four hundred doctors who are new recruits are serving in intensive care units at the moment. There have been more than two and a half thousand permanent medical staff posts in twenty months of our government, within a year, I would say, since the beginning of the pandemic, when about two thousand seven hundred recruits were made by your government, the SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u117	Minister, there were three and a half thousand with the approval of the Ministerial Council only in March 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u118	There are no these numbers, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u119	Don't interrupt, Mr. Kurubli. You don't sound. It's not writing anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u120	Are you saying March?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u121	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u122	Don't interrupt. No one interrupted you, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u123	Refresh your memory a little, Mr. Kurubli. You were a Minister of Health! Refresh your memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u124	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u125	Send me the evidence. Those recruitments were credits from the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u126	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u127	Anyway, to finish my dentistry, Mr President, and to refer to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u128	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u129	The numbers are relentless, Mr. Kurubli! It has been said many times here. Please refresh your memory. To conclude, Mr President, I shall refer again to the subject of Mr Kurublli's question concerning the provision of the practice on an anonymous basis. I think that experts' suggestions are not a state secret, because many of them in the media make their views and their views public. This is another reason that requires us with great responsibility and attention to protect these people, because it is not right to identify faces and opinions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u130	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u131	The role of the committee is specific and has no meaning, even anonymously, because this will have negative consequences. Let me say this with one expression, that we would 'empty' the members of the committee, if we did so, while, instead, we must protect each member of the committee separately and all together, so that they can speak, think and decide freely and above all unaffected, without interference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u132	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u133	Don't interrupt, Mr. Kurubli. You're out of parliamentary control. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u134	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u135	That's the rule. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u136	I have not interrupted you, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u137	The Member is asking, the Minister answers, and the whole other world and we are judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u138	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u139	Let me answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u140	It's not right what you're doing. He's out of order. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u141	Mr Kourublis, you must also refresh the Rules of Procedure of the House to see how we should behave and how parliamentary control is carried out, now that you are back on the table. In any case, this is thirty-three established scientists, who are, as I said, human beings, do not live cut off from reality and most of them give the front line to hospitals, and as you will have seen from public interventions, they are fully aware of the whole of the parameters and certainly take these parameters into account when expressing their opinion. In any case, these other parameters are the task of the Government to take them into account and to take the decisions, according to the recommendations made by these scientists. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much. Next question is the tenth question under number 587/19-3-2021. And it will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Kontozamanis. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, for the "METAXAS" Hospital in Piraeus it is my timely question, as you know. I do not, of course, ask you today about the fact that you have been deprived of a aid plan and the METAX hospital and the country's oncological hospitals since the SYRIZA governance period, which the Ministry and in cooperation with the Attica region, by changing legislation, have applied a systematic procedure on the one hand to support staff - doctors, nurses, nurses, administrative and other staff - and on the other, systematic support for machinery. These are recorded. As far as I know - I am watching and I will come back to this soon - you have not continued this work and this plan to strengthen the oncological hospitals. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] But my question today does not refer to that. It refers to an event that took place on 18 March - 11 days ago - which was very publicised and reported on the information that a large degree of control was lost, that the disease spread to the hospital in relatives, patients, doctors and other personnel. The Ministry did not issue a notice. Let others stand on the matter. I do not believe that such incidents, even if they were raised by the channels, by the press, by anything, are common or considered exceptions to normality. That is why I call on you not only to criticise and control you, but to avoid in the future and at the "METAXA" Hospital and in all hospitals in the country like this, to tell us whether there has been provision for strict health protocols in specific hospitals such as oncological hospitals and, in particular, the "METAXA" Hospital, if there was provision in order not to escape the situation in this direction, what actions have been taken and what responsibility you take, not abstract, specific for the future. So what have you done and what you will do to ensure that the health and life of the patients of medical and nursing staff, workers and visitors at the METAXA Hospital - that is to say in the other hospitals - is to be effective. From this point of view, this question also extends to the structures of the public and private sectors, so that, as I have said, these phenomena are not repeated. Please, Minister, do not answer me by downgrading the matter. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Drizza, we are not undermining the issue at all. In fact, since this pandemic broke out, our priority was to protect health workers working on the front line so that they themselves can provide health services and our fellow citizens who come to health structures enjoy the maximum safety. It has been over a year since the pandemic began and we have all seen images from abroad and how it has been managed both here and in other pandemic countries. We saw images in other countries where 30% -40% of the health staff were ill. Since the first day, we have protected the health staff, having first ensured fitness to personal protective equipment. There has been nothing missing and it will not be missing, because - we have said so many times - we have built the necessary strategic reserve if there are shortages in the world. We have protected the health staff to the maximum extent, prioritising vaccination of health personnel. Much of the staff, particularly in nursery, may not have been vaccinated, but even now we call on the unvaccinated, health workers, because we have said so, we have stressed and perceived each of us that vaccination is not just a matter of individual protection, but it is a matter of protecting our society around us, it is a matter of protecting public health. We all know that the greatest intervention in the 20th century in public health is population vaccination. Personal protective equipment, priority vaccination, strict protocols, which are respected, so that we can truly manage all the workers, all the doctors and all the staff in hospitals in the country safely. Allow me to say, because your question concerns an oncology hospital, the Oncology Hospital "METAXAS" in Piraeus, that both the "METAXA" Hospital and all the oncological hospitals, as well as other specialist hospitals, such as pediatric and psychiatric hospitals, continue and serve uninterruptedly with their respective health services all oncological, oncological, etc. This demonstrates once again that the health system works for all our fellow citizens who need health services and not just for the COVID patients, as the Anti-Population Officer party wants to support. Let me say, Mr Dritsa, that, at the beginning of March, we had coronary cases at the METAXA Hospital. What has actually happened is far from what has been said. There was, first of all, a communication from the hospital about these incidents. Allow me to say that we must end these inaccuracies which have been heard, which clearly aim to create impressions and, in fact, to close the enormous effort made by our sanitary people, who are fighting a great battle against the coronary. Patients recurrently took samples. Some of them found themselves positive. Immediately to limit disease proliferation and protect patients, specific management decisions were taken and in line with the recommendations of the Committee on Hospital Infections: import restriction, temporary suspension of imports at a specific clinic. Patients under no circumstances discontinued their treatment or enrolled for treatment, but continued to be treated in other hospitals and patients’ treatments were normally continued in the day-to-day clinic. It was also decided to suspend an operation of a surgical room as a positive case occurred in a patient, although a negative PCR was in preoperative control. To deal with the flow of positive cases to hospital workers - about thirty-three - all the necessary measures were taken, all the planned measures mentioned in the protocols were taken. Traces were carried out and high-risk workers were initially isolated and their close contacts were quarantined. Of the thirty workers, 11 have been vaccinated with both doses of the vaccine. However, it is already known from studies that vaccinated patients may also be ill. In addition, it was decided to receive molecular control weekly by all the employees as a priority in critical clinical sections of the hospital, such as COVID, haematological clinic, surgery and non-vaccinated workers. More than four hundred audits have already been carried out in the last week. Finally, it was also imperative to receive a systematic coating for molecular control and patients' escorts only for those who consider their presence and assistance for serious cases under the responsibility of doctors in clinical departments. Mr Dritsa, as you can see, the hospital has taken all necessary steps to limit and control the spread of cases, with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of all the services of the hospital, with a view to ensuring the safety of staff and patients. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your answer. She was prepared and extensive. If I understood correctly, you focused the whole vaccination issue. As far as I know - I, at least as a member of the Piraeus Parliament, have been informed and disprove with - the percentages of vaccinated health at the "METAXA" Hospital are the same as all hospitals in Greece. So we can't focus there. And yet, I told you in my first speech, there was no announcement. We saw reporters, we saw the head of the hospital's medical service in channels, we saw the trade union workers announcing and providing information and the Ministry from the data, about how many, how and why! Next day, Minister Kikilis issued a ministerial decision making the test compulsory twice a week for those of doctors, nurses and nurses have not been vaccinated. Thank you so much! Is that proof that you have health protocols and even in an oncological hospital? Until first it was found that there is a coronary case in a patient, in workers - and still in doctors, etc. - and they went into quarantine. Patients who were usually hospitalized were transferred to another CIVID hospital. I do not know what is best, but at the moment - and already from those days when the incidents occurred - the sixth floor has at least ten or more than ten patients with COVID who are hospitalized for their cancer. I do not know and will not dare to go into what is the most correct method. There was a meeting with the health staff, with the staff, with the ministry on how the protocol is at such a hospital in order to be implemented. We know well right now - I don't think you know it - that the haematological clinic is having a hard time working, like endocrines. Too many workers are in quarantine. How will this thing be ensured? I don't want to create fears and dangers. On the contrary, I want guarantees in every direction. But they don't exist. Yesterday, Mr. Kikilis at "JANEIO" went to the next hospital in a newspaper, they were four intersected outside the ICU and said nothing. It is known that the pediatric clinic in GZANIO has almost been abolished, and I will come back with a separate question. What did Mr. Kikilis say? He said: "I'm glad that I'm meeting a better situation than the last time I came." Please! Is it the responsibility of the Ministry and Government, or is it communication to reassure the world and ultimately not to take responsibility, but to give it to individuals, to citizens, to doctors, to nurses, to one another, to one another but to us? I call on you, too, for the METAXA Hospital and the oncological hospitals to assume your responsibilities. One newspaper said I invite you to resign. I do not invite you to resign, I urge you to do what you must and finally put the National Health System first and not to suspend until a pandemic is passed so that we can return to the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, under no circumstances did I focus on the vaccination of the staff and I stressed that since the first day this pandemic began, our aim was to protect health workers, which we did with the adequacy of personal protective equipment and, of course, when we had the vaccine at our disposal, we gave priority to the nursing, medical and other personnel in health establishments. I repeat, the hospital issued a statement on the incident. Actually, it's like he's answering the Department of Health. Hospitals are subject to the Ministry of Health. There's no difference between the hospital announcement and what the Department of Health believes. The hospital is responsible for making an announcement. In any case, however, let me say that on such matters as what your question raises, there are no political controversies. I think there should be an exchange of views and constructive criticism so that we can all unite together to act successfully and fight the pandemic. I would remind you once again that every hospital must be prepared. Our country's hospitals are prepared and have proved it during this year. The staff are currently exaggerating themselves in order to deal with the harsh third wave. From day one, there are protocols, strictly respected. I want to repeat something I said in my prototype. We saw the rates of nursing staff in other countries. We've made it, and we've kept it low. It is impossible that no one should be ill from the health staff and from the patients. However, the question is that we have taken the necessary steps to ensure that these rates are low and I think we have done so. We all know that the pressure from the pandemic is great and, in fact, disproportionately great. It is also the tiredness of the staff, as I mentioned, even greater, resulting in whatever we have done, to seem a little bit more like. But too much has been done and so much has been done that the system remains standing right now and provides health services to all citizens. We are sure that the actions we take to prevent the pandemic and the problems it causes, the continued and better preparation and shielding of our hospitals, as well as the strengthening and encouragement of the personnel who manage them, are the best response to the battle we are giving against the pandemic. Our support is given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 3167/12-1-2021 question from the circle of petitions by the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Restriction of civil liability by doctors of the ESS in the management of the pandemic'. The question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are all aware of the superhuman efforts of the country's health personnel throughout the entire period to deal with the adverse conditions of pandemic and the best possible medical treatment for Coronovirus patients. Physicians, nurses and other staff worked and continue to work with carelessly and self-restraining having to deal with daily piles of coronary cases, which others are treated in simple beds, but are intubated outside of the ICU and waiting to get in and others are hospitalized inside the ICUs. Death is enough right now. All this grim situation is being addressed by the doctors of the public health system, some of whom do not have the appropriate medical expertise, but are being retired, due to the enormous shortages of medical personnel. Inevitably, this situation has brought the doctors' request for a thorough review of their legal status. The issue had come to the public for the first time in 2018 with the publication of the circular by the then Deputy Minister of Finance of the Government of SYRIZA Mr. Juliarakis. We recall that this circular mentioned that in the case of a judicial conviction by a doctor of the ESS in compensation as the responsible person of the patient, Articles 38 of the Staff Code of Law 3528/2007 and Articles 68 and 69 of Law 4129/2013, according to which, if the damage caused by a third party was negligently caused by a civil servant in the performance of his duties, the amount which the service, the Greek public or the legal person governed by public law, such as hospitals and OTAs, would have to pay judicially, is automatically charged against the staff member, without prior adoption of a separate administrative act. It is obvious that the threat of charging medical allowances against ERC doctors leads to financial invasion, at the time they receive their poor wages in relation to their corresponding foreign wages and are economically unable to respond to private insurance for civil liability. I ask you: is your Ministry prepared to deal with the issue of civil liability for medical errors in response to the consequences of the pandemic, but also in total, as you had publicly committed in December 2019? If so, what specific measures do you intend to adopt and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Poula, the first part of your question is sorry to bring it back, because we have exhausted the subject. I have given adequate answers and, of course, there has never been any reference to supposedly yielding responsibilities to doctors for deaths of coronary patients. The doctors and all the staff at the moment have exaggerated themselves, they are worthy both of the citizens and of the state, and I think we all recognise this and anything but the issue of their responsibility has ever been raised. The National Health System stands up today thanks to the superhuman efforts of all these people. We must recognise them. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, I would like to raise the issue in its real dimensions - legal and substantive - in order not to create paraphilis and dangers, either for reasons of feasibility or for reasons of ignorance. The doctors of the National Health System are civil servants and according to the Staff Code, all civil servants are completely irresponsible towards third parties. I mean, no one can turn on them by lawsuit and ask them for compensation. Any illness may request compensation only from the State and not from the official. Sometimes any search for responsibilities by doctors is limited, for they are only responsible when they acted with treacherous or gross negligence. But I don't think there's a doctor in the National Health System, who runs his work with a fraud. Therefore, the doctors of the ESS, like all civil servants, have irresponsible against third parties and are responsible only for the Greek State. Who decides if a doctor is responsible? The answer comes from Article 98 of the Constitution, where the answer is given by a supreme court, namely the Court of Auditors, and indeed at the request of the General Commissioner of State. What is being said about the alleged pipeline industry against the doctors of the U.S. and long-term judicial hardships has nothing to do with reality, and we must neither jeopardise nor hunt ghosts. I have looked into this a little further in order to answer your question and let me say that the few cases that have been judged by the Court of Auditors mainly concern the responsibility of doctors for illegal prescriptions. I imagine that neither do you have any objections to these cases. In any case, the issue has a variety of legal and factual dimensions, it relates to constitutional issues, we are considering it, and here we are discussing specific and legally applicable regulations. I repeat: there is no cause for concern for doctors on a matter of their responsibility, and in particular there is no cause for concern about the pandemic, as this is an extraordinary and unusual situation in which even these limits of science and the tolerance of medical staff are tested. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have listened very carefully. As far as I understand it, you're not going to change anything, you're going to leave the same situation. The issue has arisen from the 2018 Huliaraki circular. If you really want to contribute to doctors, why don't you remove it? Why don't you remove it? The OENGE is asking you. The associations of hospital doctors have it as their request. So, do you think that with this circular, as structured, no doctors will be prosecuted and no doctors will pay? I doubt it. You said in December 2019 that we should take measures, but from then on you have done nothing. Here's Rhodes! I think we should change the Circular of Juliarakis. It can't be dragged all this time from 2019 until today, because problems see them, they're daily. Certainly, people first year had to deal with a pandemic that they did not know. But now, as long as time passes, we all understand a few things more and there will be responsibilities. In fact, in circumstances as patients are hospitalized in hospitals, without the relative being present - because you know very well that no person comes in - human lives are suddenly lost and some will be looking for responsibility. We've got to make sure our fellow doctors are taken care of. For these two hundred six who were attacked, should they not have made this clear - to see the issue of civil liability if there is a problem? So I think you should go ahead. There is not only the applause at the moment. We need to do other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u156	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Poula, I'm starting with the last part of your report on the doctors we've been recruiting. They are civil servants, they are available to the State and there is no question of civil liability. It applies to all doctors and all civil servants. It's personally integrated into the National Health System. There are relevant opinions from scientific bodies, from the Athens Medical Association and other scientific bodies and professional associations, and I think this issue has been exhausted. As far as your question is concerned, I think I was clear in my answer. I don't think that's the time right now, so we'll be in danger. I said that there is a specific institutional framework. If you think that a doctor provides his services with fraud and there's a fraud in medical practice, I think you're making a big mistake. There's no delusion. I told you that the cases examined by the Court of Auditors concern illegal prescriptions. In any case, yes, what we have said before is that we are dealing with this issue and here we are discussing specific and legislative regulations, as I have said. Please once again be very careful at this time, let doctors perform their duties unfounded and without unfounded risks. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too, Minister. We will discuss Tuesday with number 3547/458/26-1-2021 a question and request that Members of Parliament present SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Finance, on "Question and ACP regarding the provision of the President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities and the Financing of Terrorism and Control of Asylum State Declarations, concerning the company "ELLENIC LIMITS AND CHEMICALS ELFE SA". Mrs Zavvos' timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this is a question that has been tabled to answer in writing. It could be answered by a proposal, if it were negative. I hope it's negative, though. In any case, you didn't answer me, so we got to this process. As you know, Mr Laurentis Laurentiadis, who has recently been convicted of infidelity in the case of Proton Bank by the three-member crimes appeal, is owned by the fertiliser factory in Kavala. In 2014, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority of Criminal Actions committed the property of Mr. Laurentis Laurentiadis, including the fertiliser factory in Kavala, because it considered its value to be part of a criminal product. With your amendment in November 2019, co-signed by Mr. Stavuras and Mr. Tsiaras, it is allowed to "unblock" subjugated business assets. In other words, there is a three-month deadline for the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Criminal Actions to check its affairs and then, as long as the asset is frozen for more than eighteen months and even with retroactive power, i.e. even assets that had been committed since April 2018 and before, in which the property of Laurent Laurentiadis is also decommissioned. On this basis, I asked you if the property of the convicted Lavrentiadis has been released and, if not, whether an application has been made to release it, if a release procedure has been initiated. Since your answer was positive, I also asked you to submit a request to withdraw or amend the provision No 27/10-03-2014 of the President of the Anti-Fraud Authority. I'm waiting for your answer. I hope it's negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Crime and the Financing of Terrorism, as you know, is an independent authority and in accordance with Article 7(2) of Law 3691/2008 this authority enjoys administrative and operational independence. In addition, in accordance with Article 7a(6), the President, the members and staff of the authority shall have the duty to keep confidentiality for information which they are aware of in the performance of their duties. Consequently, that principle, to which I have referred, is governed by the principle of confidentiality, namely confidentiality, and its reports are forwarded to the competent prosecutor, in the event of an infringement of the relevant legislation. In this procedure, following the adoption of the order of the President of the Authority in 2014, it was forwarded to the public Prosecutors and the case is judged by the judiciary. And as we have been told by the authority in its official response - I am referring specifically to - 'After the transmission of a commitment order to the public prosecutors, the authority is relinquishing all responsibilities'. It is therefore not the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to withdraw or amend that provision by the President of that authority. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u162	Me too, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u163	Minister, I know this is an independent authority. Nevertheless, you must remember that, with an urgent request to the chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the House when you were opposition, you asked that the chairman of the authority, Mrs Zairis, should come to committee and give you information on the ELFE-PES case. And then it was confidential assumptions of principle and how she manages her affairs, but yet, you asked her to come and give you that information. As far as I can see, you have answered the same way that you have answered me, that the case is being investigated and cannot give any further information. However, the opposition at that time, the New Democracy and its President, had asked to come to committee. What I want to say to us - I think it is only competent for the authority to tell us, as you gave it a three-month period, with your amendment, to check the cases - is whether this provision is still in force. It's a public document. The Mortgage is filed. If anyone goes to Kavala Househouse, they'll find her. I would also like to know whether there is a procedure, a request to withdraw this provision. I do not want to go into the essence of any personal affairs even of the convicted Mr Laurentiadis. I don't care about the substance. I am concerned if there is a process of releasing these assets, which one should not wish to do, because Mr Laurentiades, at the moment we are talking about, through the adventurous companies, constantly charges the FBI, PPC and the PPC. A few days ago, I had a question with Mr Tsakloglu and he unawares to me that the adventurous companies, which are created for a year, create millions of euros in the ECA. I therefore think we should look at this a little more seriously, because if the property is released and transferred, then the public cannot be compensated for the debts and get the money due from Mr Laurentiadis. I therefore think that a more specific response would not fall into the personal data or confidential information of the independent authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u164	I too, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Let me say again that the case has taken its way to justice, so here it cannot have any interference with the Treasury. I would also like to inform you that the Athens Court of Appeal has informed us that the trial of the above case has been completed with 2026 and with 2288/30.09.2020 Decision of the Third Court of Appeal of the Court of Appeal of Athens, which is currently in the process of cleansing. Therefore, your question concerns exclusively - as you can see - the crisis of Greek justice, always in accordance with the legal framework that applies. That is what I would like to add, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u166	Will you submit the document submitted to you by the authority in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u167	Of course, I can testify to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go to the fifth under No 591/22-32021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Cythera: Atolitics in the blockade areas of the Spatial Planning of Renewable Energy (RED)'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, it is another question that proves the puzzle of lawlessness in the part of the placement of wind parks in Greece. It is not enough that Mr Skrekas came to tell lies here in plenary when he said that the conscientious opinion of the municipality of Kafereos and the municipal council in Karystos had been obtained in order to extend the capacity limit for the wind power in Karystos. It's false. We're still looking for this paper. I've also applied for paperwork to give it to us. You won't give it to us, because there isn't. Now you are once again violating the second and last restriction, which puts the space-building of the RES, a spatial development that favours the installation of wind turbines. What's that restriction? Do not enter archaeological sites and must be five hundred meters from a settlement and a thousand five hundred meters from a traditional settlement. In Kythera you are violating both of these terms by placing the winds in the blockade zone of the declared archaeological site, a very important archaeological site, which I have visited and very great historical and archaeological importance, while putting the winds at a distance of less than five hundred meters from the villages Kousunari, Lazarianica and Rises and less than a thousand five hundred meters from the traditional settlement of Mylopotamos. The justification for RAE is that it does not have a map showing it the areas of exclusion, reflecting archaeological sites. Is it possible, in the absence of such a map, to adopt anything, anywhere, by violating the law? What country are we, Undersecretary? What unthinkable things are happening? It's a serial violation of the law on windshields! I'm going to go on with more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I am also aware of your interest and your sensitivity to issues relating to the environment, but also to renewable energy facilities, especially wind parks. I would like to say to you from the outset that what the current law says, the institutional framework referred to in the specific spatial planning framework for renewable energy sources, applies everywhere, will also apply here. You should take that for granted and it has not changed. In addition, and you know that, the amendment of this specific spatial framework for renewable energy is in progress, with the aim of being even more stringent, even more specific, to go ahead with the development of wind parks across Greece, always in relation to the objective that we want to achieve the contribution of renewable energy to total electricity production in our country, adapting all this to the national energy and climate plan, but also to environmental protection issues. You know that at this time many plans are being made to come to order in space, not only for renewable energy sources, which is a special spatial planning, but also for them through local urban planning plans and specific urban plans, but also from the specific environmental studies relating to uses in the protected areas mentioned before. With the completion of the last plan in particular, it comes into order what is allowed and what is forbidden throughout the territory, in all places. You know, because we have discussed this before, we have made many meetings here on the basis of your questions, respecting, as I have said, and interest and sensitivity, which I would like to tell you, I myself have in the same direction, are all of them getting into order. In the case of specific environmental studies in protected areas, the uses to be defined take precedence over all other uses from all other designs. This parameter is critical. In a year - so the timetable - will have been completed and completed, as you know, by presidential decree on legal certainty. First of all, but then I will continue to cover you with the rest of your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I do not disagree that we may agree on intent, but we should see the substance here a little. Here the intentions of your government seem in practice not to be the protection of any region. Let me be very clear: you tell us that it will become a tougher spatial planning. We're really waiting for it. Meanwhile, in the mountains - symbolic, which international studies tell us we need to protect from any new work and road opening - because these areas are of global importance, Samothraki, Saos, Olympus, Smolicas, Tymphis, Zagorochoria, the White Mountains - all of you move to wind parks despite the Prime Minister's statements a year ago that the framework will be tightened up. When Mr. Economou, your predecessor, made a commitment in here that it would not go any further in Sao, Mr. Amyras came the other day and said that this commitment is not the case. So you're telling us he's being severed? But here's the spatial space beyond being tightened up, two things forbid. First of all, overcoming the carrying capacity per municipality, which you are above not only accidentally, but also through what you are approving as strategic investments. You approve double illegal strategic investments. On the one hand, you have exceeded your capacity and on the other hand, because they do not substantiate the number of positions you have announced for strategic investments. Six hundred seats in the wind turbines in Evia have produced less than a hundred seats, and you approved eight, which will do over a hundred fifty jobs. So even children understand that this is not the case. Here you are now located in archaeological sites. Situated next to settlements, in less than five hundred meters from settlements and less than a thousand five hundred from traditional settlements. The RAE says that 'as long as I do not have the necessary exclusion maps, I will place what I want'. What's RAE? Is that above the law? He's been proclaiming a project after he's made the licenses. It proclaims a project to capture all this in maps, archaeological sites and traditional settlements. The notice is open for five days. Who can respond in five days? And who can, in thirty days, place and place on these maps nineteen thousand three hundred fifty-eight archaeological sites and monuments in the country, which do not exist in any single map? How can RAE do this? All of this is pretextual. Really, if you want to put winds everywhere, say it clearly. Do not hide behind pretexts to protect the environment. What we see is that you want to put windy and the last mountain peak, next to the last village, in the last traditional settlement and monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that the production permits and after Law 4685-2020 the manufacturer's certificate from the RAE do not necessarily mean that, at the end of the day, a licence will also be issued for the construction and operation of a wind park. All of this, even the spatial planning, the position to which the request is made if it fulfils the conditions of the law, the existing EIA spatial framework, is carried out in the environmental licensing process. So when the request comes after the RAE and after the producer's attestation at the Environmental Licensing Department, where then there will also be consultation for the public as well as for local services, then it will be decided whether the criteria of the law and the existing institutional framework are met. If they are not met, no environmental approval decision will be given, the investment will not proceed. You should take that for granted, because this law provides for it. I know that there are four places for Kythera -150 megawatts the first, 135 megawatts the next four - but at the level of the Regulatory Authority for Energy, at the level of a producer attestation it has to go through other phases and then it will also be judged spatially and environmentally. Until then, nothing is given. This is about the substance of the Cythera answer. As far as the issue of archaeological sites, as you know, the existing institutional framework states for a total ban on zone I of archaeological sites. There are other restrictions that you mentioned, too, from settlement limits, from roads, from sensitive areas. All this at the environmental licensing stage will be checked and, if the conditions are not met, the licensing will not proceed. I say this because nothing will go ahead that does not have to comply with the standards and conditions of the existing institutional framework, as I mentioned before about Kythiras. I would like to say to you, because everything is evolving and everything changes, that we have the experience of all those who have evolved and have ongoing planning to match the conditions laid down in the texts of the Special Spatial Framework for the RES on the map that you mentioned before, to have double security, not only at regulatory level, but also at map level. I said there'd be priorities for where they'd turn out. There's one more thing I want to say. When we want to protect an area, it does not mean that we only protect it through total ban. There are also areas where everything is forbidden, but there are areas which are specific, which can by rules, principles and frameworks, define those activities that match and, if they meet the conditions and conditions of authorisation. In this context we are moving and that is what we are discussing. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, too, Minister. Subsequently under number 596/22-3-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Building a special spatial plan and an integrated development programme for the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas". The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, every major project creates a overthrow in the development of a region, a overthrow that can be positive, beneficial to the local society, but also to our country as a whole, if it is based on rules and if unregulated growth is avoided, because we have seen it in many cases, and I would point it out at the outset. The major work of the New International Airport at Kastelli Fieldos, although the last three to four years have been launched with specific contracts and procedures, is now being carried out and is being carried out without prior consideration of the specific spatial planning, "the villager", as is called the plan for the region. Previously, it could have been the swap. It didn't happen. For four and a half years, I have asked the previous government to make the special spatial plan for the region so that the airport will be set up in an area which will have already been prepared with land use and development guidelines to welcome and operate investment in relation to the new data. It didn't happen. In January 2020, your predecessor, Mr Economou, on a relevant timely question, pledged that by June 2020 the first phase of planning will have been completed and, at the same time, in February 2020, the final study on the special spatial area will be launched, the process of which Mr Economou then assessed, would last for about six months until we have a final contractor. What we know today is that the special peasant has not moved forward and we would like you as a new essentially State Secretary for the specific tasks, the specific responsibilities, to inform us at what stage is the special spatial plan for the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas and the wider area of the New International Airport and exactly what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u178	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, I am pleased with your question and I am pleased that you refer to a very sensitive and important area in our country, in my favourite and I - you will allow me - especially your homeland, Crete, on the occasion of the International Airport of Kastelion, which upgrades, but also gives directions and prospects for great growth both for our country and for the wider region, a space very close to the great capitals of Europe, but also to the Middle East, a very great tourist destination and an aviation hub. You have also referred to the actions that you have started and which you have rightly said, and that is what must be done, because it is a huge task and certainly affects a wider area, and that is why you have rightly referred to the way in which we come and to make progress, taking into account how the wider area of the Municipality of Minoa Pediados will be affected and not just in the direction of Heraklion from this great and important activity. Indeed, the Plan of Spatial and Settlement Organization, the FAW you mentioned, was before. Today we are going to discuss a special urban plan, precisely because it comes to give answers and prevent, but also to organise all that will be affected by the operation of the airport, so that they can function properly and develop the wider area for the airport as well as for the whole of Crete. I would like to say to you - I will continue in my dentext, if I do not finish here - that you know that the very lack of spatial planning and urban planning in our country, everywhere, has been delayed significantly, over time and that is our bet. I know that, too. It's a big bet and a very high bar. However, the need for the time after many delays is not going too far and it is my responsibility and all of us that this planning should be completed, in order to put order on the ground, to prevent imbalances, to prevent uses and activities that one needs to be linked and interacts harmoniously with the other and not to conflict the uses, as we have learned so far. With these remarks, in my dentext I will be placed with a timetable, namely your question and your concern that I fully respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u181	Minister, the story I have experienced from near the airport and the necessary planning is not always with a positive opinion for those who had the authority to decide. In particular, the PLOs had a decentralised procedure. It should be decided by the municipalities. The new international airport in Kastelli occupies three, essentially, formerly Capodistrian municipalities, which joined the Municipality of Minoa Pediadas, i.e. the Municipality of Arkalochori, the Municipality of Kastelli and the Municipality of Thraunou. One of the three municipalities, due to the opposition - or reflection, in any case - had not made the necessary decision in order to make the OPCW. This was not possible until there were three different municipalities. However, since the unification of the municipalities and the process went on at the same time as the airport, this delay is not justified both under the responsibility of self-government and our own, but also under the responsibility of governments. I made it very clear to the previous government that it has the greatest responsibilities, because it was the one that, during its administration, the contract for the creation of the airport was signed. During the period of SYRIZA, with Minister Spirtzi, the agreement on the construction of the airport was signed by the parliament as well. At the same time, there had to be in - we said that we are voting on, but here you have not done what will happen outside the airportyard - a provision for land use. We said there would be an unregulated growth. For God's sake! But they didn't hear us. The time has passed and, as I said, Mr Economou is committed. I am concerned, because the projects are going on and it is not, when the airport works, that there will be investments in the outside of the fence area. They've already moved on. People who want to invest are beginning to buy land. So tomorrow will come and they will either press in their own direction, buying to make a distorted spatial study - because it is important - or there will be a ban on what they want to do in the area they buy today and it will be unfair. In other words, one can happen. In this sense, I think that the process of planning in neutral time must go ahead - it is not neutral, it is not neutral, and it is even now - before there are specific interests that will not allow the study to be carried out, so that the rules of science and art are laid down in the rules of respect for the environment and at the same time in development, with respect for the local society that wants a return from this great work. We are therefore waiting in detail for your answers and you can be sure, Minister, that this is a major political decision with a contribution to this region if this project is going ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u182	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Comrade, I said I'd be specific and I'd be specific. First of all, as far as funding is concerned, you know that it is from the Ministry of the Environment's Green Fund. The project budget is EUR 527,000. By the end of the next month - I am referring to the timetable - the aim is to have been the proclamation of the project. At the moment when we are discussing, the specifications are being prepared and the tender documents are being completed. So by the end of next month, the competitive process will be completed and by the end of May we will also have a contractor, because we will be going through quick procedures, unless there is a delay, if there are objections. But if there are no objections, by the end of May the goal is to have a contractor. Since the contract with the contractor has been signed to calculate about one year - until next summer - the specific urban study on the Minoa Pedia area, which will define land uses - quite rightly mentioned - building conditions, capture water courses, set up organised receptors in terms of use, that is to say, it will put activities that can equilibriumly be developed in the area, without difficulties and reactions and conflicts that have been driven to date. This is the objective and I will personally monitor this process, recognising all the peculiarities that you referred to at the place of Crete and around the airport, the International Airport of Kastelio. With these remarks, we will be here and because we meet many times, I will also inform you of the progress of the project in everything I mentioned before, because it is a shared desire at last to get into order both in the space and throughout Crete and throughout Greece. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too, Minister. We now go to the twelfth under number 595/22-3-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Using messages in the five-digit number 13033 on the movement of citizens". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, George Georgios Georgios. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, thank you very much, Minister, for being here to answer our question. As we all know, for a year now, COVID -19 has been declared a global pandemic. It seems that the main line of defence chosen by our Government and the main lever with which it is trying to save the situation is not the sending of written messages, and of course, Minister, the fines that these written messages entail when they are not verified. The main question, Minister, which I would like to ask you is whether you and your government in the end trust the Greek citizens. I am telling you this because in the way of the sms, it seems to be abstract - I imagine you will not disagree with me - that our government is training our citizens to fraud. It is common secret that it is incredibly large, for example, the number of messages with the code sent to help older people. They know very well that this is fraud. It is obvious that the Greek people have been sliding into learning to get used to doing this fraud, because there is no air anymore. I must say that we seem to be in the last remaining countries of our continent, together with France, and I do not know who else, to which this practice of written messages continues. You know, this lack of confidence is not only a lack of confidence in the citizens, which is a central issue, but also shows whether we are civilised. When the state says something to its citizens, such as we are in danger of all dying together, and they consider by definition that the state is deceiving them to achieve something else, such as depriving them of their freedom, it is still the state that is to blame, because it has created this feeling. But at some point we have to decide whether we trust the Greek people and whether we can say 'do this' and do it. Statistics show that you were due, not personally - but your Government - to trust him, as few fellow citizens violate our measures. In fact, the government is also taking part in this, and the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible, Mr Kikilias, are congratulating the Greek people every week, who only one small minority is in violation of the measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. I would like to tell you that there are parallel problems. The continuation of sms, written messages, involves and creates various problems at the same time. One of these is the cultivation of collective guilt. The citizens, Mr Minister, must at all times justify their existence and only in any public area on the ground. In our view, it also recommends a transfer of responsibility from the responsible government, which should be to the people who are responsible, but not to the people who have chosen to represent them. Finally, Minister, I will come back - it is extremely foggy - on the subject of personal data, if collected correctly, where they are collected, where they are stored, from whom they are being used and how they are being used. That's what I had to ask you, and I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, all the advanced states around the world in order to limit the risk of the virus spread have, for a certain period of time and, of course, been forced, under certain conditions, to take unpleasant, but necessary decisions to limit the movement of citizens. Of course, those vital activities which each of us must carry out are excluded. This has happened everywhere in the world. Of course, too much of our fellow citizens would actually comply even if there were no such restrictions, because it is precisely a matter of responsibility that everyone feels about themselves, towards his family, towards society. However, there must be these restrictions, precisely because there is a framework of control so that they cannot indulge in or violate these restrictions by those who would attempt to do so. In many countries, these restrictions had as a means of demonstrating the so-called movement certificate, which was a guarantee and which exists in Greece as one possibility. But, in our country, by wanting to give another alternative to the citizen, so that he can earn time, do not have to confirm his movement in a document and so that he can directly demonstrate the sending of this message and confirm this, we have used the sms, which he also uses in some other European countries, and in Cyprus. As far as the sms are concerned, the general picture is that they really worked very usefully during the pandemic period and we continue until now hoping, because dealing with pandemic is a dynamic process, to be close to the moment when we will have to abolish them. However, it must be understood to everyone that your question has been asked, because the truth is that it has not been fully understood to me. We are in favour of restrictions or all restrictions on movement, so should neither the written procedure nor the sms be available? Or do you think that just the sms, the written message, creates some extra issues? Over this period millions of checks have been carried out and certainly some thousands of infringements have been established, which shows that there are some who are violating the provisions, which are fortunately very few in relation to the entire population that is moving. However, the overall management and treatment of this very critical situation also requires our country, as in all the other countries where there are favoured states, to have these limitations, which are short-term. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u189	Minister, let me tell you in relation to what you said about the effectiveness that, from the result, your conclusions are not drawn - I am telling you with all due respect - as statistics are at the worst time of the pandemic of paying it. If the sms were working in the positive direction, after a year, thirteen months, I guess we wouldn't be at the worst from the beginning of this whole story. I don't say that with empathy. I would like to make it clear to you, because I understand that you did it because you were probably confused by the wording of my question. There's no doubt about it. I would remind you that both the Secretary of Mera25 Yiannis Varoufakis and the whole of our parliamentary group, all of our announcements, systematically all the press releases, say that this virus must be controlled at all costs, both for the reasons of self-evident reasons, that is to say, that it will not die in our fellow humans and for the consequent reasons, that is to say those which entail the country's economic destruction. It is obvious that not only Mera25 is a responsible force, but it encourages citizens systematically. I would remind you, in passing, that when we decided to move from here to the American Embassy, because we are a responsible party of the Greek Parliament, we decided that only seven Members should do so, with masks and only at distances. We did not invite people to gather together, as other political forces did, and we do not blame them or invoke them. They judged that way, we judged otherwise. So don't tell me what you're saying. We are by definition a very responsible political force. We supported you without any 'but' in the first phase of the pandemic. I'm telling you specific things. I say to you that he trains our people first in the "rajadi" feeling that says "Here I have to escape, that is, turns through the side road. I have to deceive the state," which we believe is not helping, especially since one year later, you have the wonderful experience that the vastly larger part is disciplined. I would therefore like to tell you that instead of sitting down for the sms a year later, which, like you almost agreed with one or two countries, namely France and perhaps Cyprus, have been abandoned from all over the political world, it would be good if you told your colleague at the Ministerial Council, Mr Kikilia, and the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Kontozamanis, that the time has come to hire permanent doctors to the ESS, whatever the troika say, whatever the institutions have called them. We have been banned for eleven years from recruiting a permanent doctor at the ERC! It's no wonder we've been at the bottom. I'm telling you that the official figures today are showing us that we are now in the world's last positions, and we were actually up to two months ago in the first place in the world. It's time to see the subject. I shall end, Madam President, with a problem which is secondary, but which arises precisely from the sms. As you know, there is the PALANTIR case and its contract with the Greek Government. VOULIWATCH highlighted the case of the shadow American data management company PALANTIR TECHNOLOGIES. VOULIWATCH has submitted a request for documents on the secret contract signed by VOULIWATCH to this effect - with the Ministry of Digital Policy, that is to say with your Ministry. I repeat we're talking about a secret contract. In a direct follow-up to the campaign, the subject was diverse. Homo Digitalis NGO, which aims to defend human rights in the digital age and is a member of the European Digital Rights network, has submitted an application to the Greek Privacy Authority in order to exercise its powers of investigation to finally shed light on what this PALANTIR contract was with the Greek Government. It should be recalled that no one can oppose this principle. No privacy exists for the Privacy Authority. I would remind you, Minister, that both Mera25 and SYRIZA, as well as the Change Movement, have brought the matter here to the Greek Parliament, with requests for documents on this most famous secret contract. I ask you, Minister, why, at last, so long after you do not give this contract publicity? What should it hide from the Greek people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u191	Mr Colleagues, although it was not the subject of your question, I have to answer that the contract has been made public, and it has been made public and there has not been any comment from those who were seeking to show it and thought that they will find anything. I want to come to the contents of your question and, indeed, make it understandable to the world as well what we are talking about. If I understand correctly, you're basically against the ban. You think we should leave the world alone, because you believe that the world has actually complied or in any case, they do not offer anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u192	Especially the sms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u193	Mr Gregoriadis, the sms for the two periods, in March - May and in November - which have been used by our fellow citizens, except for the written procedure, which is working at the same time, are seven hundred and seventy-five million. You think that we have seventy-five million paper documents worthless, seventy-five million paper sheets, when we have that possibility, which the technology gives us, which has been considered by Europeans as a very good practice, and for the data of neither the competent authorities that control nor anyone else from the scientific community and from the political staff, have dared to say, does not have and denounce that there is any question of breaching personal data, precisely because after the return of the message all the records are deleted! So we gave an alternative. Anyone who doesn't want to use the sms can use the paper process. But I think that in our country, as in all the favoured states, in which all governments with the partnership most times in the whole of the political world took those measures, which are necessary to limit the risk of dispersion, we too had to have a framework of ban, which, unfortunately, I agree with you - is being circumvented, because not all of them can be controlled or because I do not know what can be set up. But this framework is necessary, precisely because the one who is conscientious and agrees that control will demonstrate what is provided for in the legislative act, which several parties have voted in favour, and which enables him to move about for their vital needs, but at the same time also for him who is violating these prohibitions, gives the state the opportunity to impose a financial fine, which is certainly not our purpose, but there must be a framework for this restriction, because it is a great battle which is given and must be given in every way. The health system has been strengthened, Mr Gregoriadis. The Ministers for Health have mentioned specific actions that we have taken - I think it is unnecessary at the moment to mention them - both in relation to human resources and in relation to beds and intensive care units. I also think that your information about the position in which our country is today, in both a number of cases and an unpleasant and painful number of deaths in the population, is not good. We are in a very good position in both these categories and I think we are very close. As regards vaccination, 10.1% of the population has already been covered with a single dose. I think we are very close to the end of this very unpleasant situation, but it has been dealt with by the government with responsibility, so that we can have the best possible result and return to normality, which I think we all want. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too, Minister. In the first, with number 573/16-3-2021, a top-level question from Athens, New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "EKA's real estate rating" will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is known that Athens and especially its centre finds abandoned, polluted and dangerous buildings, but of particular importance in architecture and aesthetic importance. The majority of citizens are really saddened to see this abandoned property. When Mr Hatzidakis took office at the Ministry of Labour, I personally was concerned, because he left a great deal of work and I am referring to the recent Law 4759/2020, which finally gave incentives for the first time to traditional and neoclassical, such as the transfer of a building coefficient, so that the owners can finally have some incentive not to let them waste and renovate them. So I was thinking, because you are a prominent economist, that now the twin Hatzidakis - Tsakloglu will have to open up this treasure, which is the huge fortune of Ephkah. It's public property which, from what I remember from my journalistic experience, remains inactive all these decades. The idea didn't come down to Piraeus Street. On our right hand, after Omonoia Square and after the wonderful building in Socrates, where "Kathimerini" was housed, suddenly, in the ugliest of modern buildings, I saw a marble facade of old urban character, where I remembered what a beautiful building this is! Dead, but he wrote on "Barts Fund". I know with the FBI there's no cash. So I thought I might ask you the following question to come up with. Have the properties counted, belonging to the FBI, been counted? What are the plans of the Ministry with the twin Hatzidakis and Tsakloglou for this huge real estate? The last is: Are there buildings where your own services are housed - by EVA, for example - which are not public or EVA's, and we pay rents, large I suspect, in private property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u196	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for your question and for your good words, by the way. In fact, I am well aware of your particular interest in the development of public spaces, the school infrastructure and the abandoned buildings in Athens. This is not the first time I have seen this. As you can see, synergy between executive and local government is needed and the involvement of the owners where they exist. In many cases, they don't exist. Initiatives like yours are needed, so that the capital of the country can regain its pace in the modern world, among the metropolitan cities, which are trying to combine economic development with social cohesion. You are absolutely right and it is known that one of the largest property owners in our country and especially in the area of the center of Athens is Efka, under whose umbrella the property of all the insurance funds of the country has been merged into it. The property of these funds began to be created in the post-war period, i.e. from the beginning of the 1950s, with the boom of the construction sector. In that vast economic period for the country, the insurance funds went to real estate markets to house their services. Later, in the post-government 1980s and 1990s, their real estate grew even further, through donations and legacy, and, of course, through seizures, made following the non-payment of contributions from the great-fashioned. In the decade before, on the contrary, depopulation of buildings, combined with the economic crisis, is estimated to cause significant losses. What is the situation today? By the way, I would like to say that EVA is a supervised but autonomous organisation. Indeed, we are in close cooperation with him, but it is an organization whose property is its own. We're not doing her micro-management. Obviously, it will be done by them. According to the official information received from the EFCA, the recording work has been completed and the information to be provided includes the property of the former EFSI, i.e. the merged subsidiary funds. That was the last fund that entered the FBI with Law 4670/2020. In detail, EKKA owns five hundred and twenty full buildings, plots and parcels throughout the region. The complete buildings are two hundred three, the horizontal properties, i.e. offices or apartments, etc., are a hundred sixty-nine, the plots are seventy-one and the parcels forty-nine. In the Attica Prefecture of Interest, the full buildings are a hundred forty, of which ninety one are located in the Municipality of Athens. The horizontal property is seventy-nine, of which sixty-two are located on the border of the Municipality of Athens. The plots are forty-eight, of which four are strangely fourteen in the Municipality of Athens. These are dry plots. The parcels - of course, none of them in Athens - are twenty-four. The objective value for which you asked me in Attica is about 738m euros, of which the properties in the Municipality of Athens are 489m euros. In relation to the use of these real estates, to meet the needs of housing the services of EKKA, according to information that we used eighty-five private-owned buildings, of which forty houses the body's services, twenty-three health services and twenty-two warehouses and archives. At the same time - to come to your question - there are sixty-five leased properties to meet the needs of the organization. The information I have just provided shows that this is a property of high value which must be best used for the benefit of the insured, with absolute transparency and respect for the public interest. The administration of our institution assures us that it is in the process of updating the plan for further use, as a series of relocations of services to be released and other property is currently being prepared, what you mentioned before. For the Ministry of Labour, the exploitation of the real estate of EVKA is part of an overall effort to change the way the institution operates, as we are confident that we can change season and functions at all levels of the Entity, from the digitisation of the services, to the benefit of the insured person, until the real estate is exploited. Because I want to refer to some flagrant buildings in the centre - one of which is what you mentioned earlier - I will return to my second-guess, as well as to the detailed plan drawn up by EKKA in collaboration with the Ministry for the development of these properties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u199	I'm excited, Minister, as you can see. You told us that according to official evidence, the EVA's real estate is about 800 million in Attica. I note what you told us to hear from the Mayor of Athens, Mr. Bakoyannis, who has been trying to make the pocket parks in collaboration with a non-profit company. Some of your plots, your estates, the fields you have, let's finally do another green space. All I understand is that he's finally on his way, like the fact that you said that public services, i.e. EFKA, are paying rent, while EFKA has a huge fortune on an empty property. Did I get it right? I want to make a suggestion, precisely because you're this twin. You had a successful energy in your ministry during the previous period, the benefits for parents after the first birth. It's important, and I think we're going to evolve economically and it can grow. In this context, I thought of something. You have wonderful buildings that are in the center of Athens. Athens is dying. Athens in 30 years at most will only be for tourists, nightlife, bars and will only be for single or elderly, because they are close to hospitals. So, now this idea has come to me and if you can process it: Too many young people want to live in the center of Athens for many reasons, mainly to avoid the use of cars. But, Minister, especially in the areas that are organised to accept new families, so that the child with the wheelchair on the road can also get on with the financial issue of the rental. Could you design some spaces of your own than those you will use, as was the Labour House that no longer exists in this form? To subsidise with his buildings exclusively, however, parents who want to raise their children, to regain life in the center of Athens, despite the fact - and this also serves you - that in recent years some businessmen have really supported the center, because they have also re-established abandoned private sector buildings and have turned them into offices, or to hotels, especially at Evripidou Street, Aristidou Street and generally in the center of Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Pipilis, I would like to begin with your statement with which, however, I am not going to agree. Having lived abroad for several years, I had heard similar things about how the center of London, New York, and many other such big cities will be abandoned. That thing didn't happen after all. In other words, such uses are always found and I think it will be done for Athens. Indeed, we have spent a very difficult decade, there is no doubt at all. It doesn't start from the memorial period, it's already before. We all remember the episodes that had taken place with Gregoropoulos. From this whole period until now, our center had really begun to recover. Sadly, however, we ran into the pandemic. We firmly believe that this will continue beyond that. For the uses of the buildings you mentioned earlier, what we need to think is that they belong to an insurance agency, which must organise them in the best way possible and in the interests of the insured, that is, the insurance funds belonging to it, but at the same time be used in the way you have said. I think that we will take action in that direction. If you see it in general, the country has paid too much incomplete and fragmented design and we do not want to repeat this mistake. For this purpose, in accordance with a decision taken in May 2019 by the Board of Directors of the EBRD, the planning and implementation of a five-year real estate recovery programme, which includes the following four distinct sections, was approved. Use the empty buildings, which are to be evacuated in the framework of an ECA transition to single structures. Did you previously ask 'has he rented while he has his own'? Indeed, there was a pool of funds that did not have their own buildings. Now, what's going on is that he's trying to do is set up several of his services. The measures provided for are direct proprietary, proprietary following repairs, or long-term rental or, where appropriate, sale of real estate. The second is planning to build all the services and records of the organisation if possible in private buildings. They are not always these, because many of these buildings may not be offered for their respective use, such as some apartments. The third is extensive repairs and renovation of buildings in which services are housed or to be housed, and it is obviously also the utilization of land. There are three contagious property buildings in the city centre - you mentioned one at the University, one in Socrates and one in Satubriandos, which are reference points for the company's investment portfolio. These buildings are undergoing an assessment process with internationally recognised assessment standards in order to achieve the best possible use of them. In the near future, standard tenders are being prepared for the rental of these properties and, at the same time, a notice for the valuation of 11 more real estate is being promoted, with the necessary condition for participation in the competitive process of registering the valuers in the Register of Certified Estimated Persons. In that notice, each property will be a separate part. The result of the tendering procedure will be awarded by lot. Indeed, especially for the three contagious buildings to which I referred earlier, as they will probably cause great investment interest, they need to be signed not by one, but by two high-level valuers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u202	Who is she, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u203	These three buildings I mentioned, one is at the University, the other in Socrates and the third in Southubriandos. We're talking about large buildings, really very nice. Now let me refer to some more real estate in the city centre, because some of them I think you have insinuated them too. The first is "ESPERIA", opposite our Ministry, on Stadium Street, which has already become a five-star modern hotel. There is a building that is for use, which you have also suggested before and is on Julian. The building has been granted to the Institute of Labour of GSEU in exchange for the performance of extensive repair and renovation work. Also, in return for compensation was given to the urban non-profit company "KADEMIA LYRIKI TECHNIS - MARIA KALAS", a building on the Patisian road for the accommodation of the school under the same name. Also, it is the estimate of a property on Socrates road, at the Ministry of Tourism for the accommodation of its services, the rental of a building that is maintained on Stadiou street for its conversion to a hotel - namely the old EIF building - the rental of a building on Bucharest Street for the conversion to a hotel unit, another for the same purpose and the concession for a major building in return for the roads Acharnes and Liosia in the Municipality of Athens. Also, there is a very interesting property in Zaclosta Street, which can be either hotel or offices, because there is a need. I will close by stressing once again how important it is for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to exploit all this public wealth. At this time, the administration of the FBI is planning how we will get through more effectively in this new era. What I think may be of particular interest to you is that in this context you are also considering the possibility of setting up an anonymous real estate investment company, probably in cooperation with the private sector to make better use of all these properties. In conclusion, I would like to say that the property of the funds is the property of the Greek people. Investments in these have a multiplier effect, which works for the benefit of the ELKA itself, the insured, the social and the urban landscape. We are seeking to leave behind outdated procedures and attitudes and to look at the future with optimism. To that end, we are working and hopefully we will achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 583/19-3-2021 timely question by the first question of the MP of Heraklion from the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The unacceptable, unreasonable manipulation of the administration of the Union of Agricultural Partnerships of Sitia and Piraeus Bank, on the debts of the Union to the former workers". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Tsakloglu. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a trial to be postponed at the LAS S.A.'s polypartite Lassithi Primary on the resolution plan for S.S.S.S.S.A. is pending. The judiciary is the one prisoner. There is the political issue of the unacceptable, unsuccessful, counter-management of the administration of the Union, the Piraeus Bank and the investors for not paying off the substance of the Union's debt to the former workers, which exceed three hundred people. They are debts that touch 1,800,000 euros. In this political context, the answer should be given by the government, namely, in this case, you. Or it will be beneficial to workers and convicted of business interests, i.e. the bank and investors, or it will be a convict for workers and be beneficial to entrepreneurs. In particular, the resolution plan provides for a cut of 80% of the earnings earned and an interest-free return in twenty annual instalments by 2040, while redundancy payments are paid off in ten annual instalments by 2030. The resolution plan agreed by the parties, i.e. the management of the NSA Sitia, Piraeus Bank and investors, provides inter alia for the preferential treatment of the bank to which all of the debts of the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives will be attributed. It's really a challenge and this arrangement. It will take place in fifteen years, while workers in twenty unequal annual instalments. Even what the bank loses as interest will get from her client in the next few years. In simple terms, the sweat and the hardship of workers, which are more than three hundred people, I repeat, is evaporated by the'savings', based on the legislative framework, which has been set up by all governments over the last decade together with the European Union and through the modernisation of the strategy of the common agricultural policy, are being thrown away - in fact - by the name of the rescue of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives by turning it into anonymity. This multi-advertised partnership - Anonymous Company not only aims to save the Union, but will also work to the detriment of both workers and employees of the Union and the region's small and medium-sized farms. So we are asking you, Minister, what urgent action will the government take to get all the workers involved - they are theirs - and the workers of the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Sitia, on the basis of the 2016 agreement - if I may tell you in the second instance what it means - and not to be included in the new proposal for the consolidation of the Association of Sitia Cooperatives? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Synthraki, your question raises a matter which is not yesterday, and it has not suddenly come up and come as a timely question to Parliament today, but according to the Labour Inspectorate, it is at least a decade away. In particular, it starts from 2010-2011, when the first delays were recorded in the payment of accrued earnings of workers from the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Sitia and, according to the Labour Inspectorate, the entire debt of compensation and accrued earnings is currently just over 1,800,000 euros. By your question you also raise a major issue concerning the lack of transparency, maladministration and the distorting economic function of agricultural cooperatives, which has been afflicting the rural world for decades, our country as a whole, and which has burdened public finances with billions of euros in debts which ultimately took over by the public. It is extremely useful to make a brief historical reference to this issue, because you have started your story very recently, and that is not why we have arrived. The decline of the Greek cooperatives is due to the fact that the majority of them - but not all - were not, historically and sincerely, not actually associations of producers of a business character, but to the tools of the Greek state's policy, not only agricultural policy, but other policies. This distorting situation led to maladministration, inefficiency and eventually collapse. During the first decade of our century in our country there were typically nearly six and a half thousand cooperatives, with seven hundred fifty thousand members. In their overwhelming majority they were practically inactive or even virtual. Only 15% of Greek agricultural products are produced by cooperatives, which is a small fraction compared to the percentage of other countries. Thousands of failed cooperatives have come to owe nearly EUR 2.5 billion to banks, to the public, to insurance funds. These include fines that the European Union has imposed on them because of the illegal aid it has occasionally offered to the cooperatives. Undoubtedly, the development of new effective cooperative schemes is absolutely essential so that Greece can monitor developments and claim a better position on the global agri-food market. Of course, there have still been bright examples of healthy cooperatives and producer groups that co-operate, attempt and achieve economies of scale with internationally competitive products. Unfortunately, the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Sitia is not such a case. As the Labour Inspectorate confirms, in 2015 the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Sitia, facing an existential risk and excessive debt, restructured the company by denouncing the contracts of fifty-five employees. Subsequently, a private contract signed by both parties, a cooperative and an employee, provides that redundancies are valid in the context of a plan for the resolution and restructuring of the Cooperative and that the arrangements for payment of the accrued accruals and redundancies to workers at the time are agreed. The employees agreed that the termination of the contract is valid. That's critical, and I'll analyze it later on in my dentistry. They have therefore already resigned from the application of the provisions of labour law. According to the RES, workers for the specific complaints of their contracts, i.e. for their collective redundancies, did not appeal to the Labour Inspectorate. Why didn't they appeal? As they themselves support a recent memorandum submitted on 19-1-2021 to the Lassithi Court, they negotiated the 2016 agreement on how to pay those due to the management of the cooperative by signing - take note of this - private contracts, which they submitted to the relevant DU. As they say, among other things, in their memorandum to the Lassithi Court, "on strong pressure that we would lose all the claims due, we accepted the validity of the termination of our contracts in order for the cooperative to reduce the number of its employees from fifty-eight to six". In the context of the arrangement signed, the payment of their claims was foreseen, with the exception of an initial amount of EUR 1 million paid in 2016, in eleven instalments payable in a six-month period starting from 31-12-2020 and lasting at 31-12-2025. This is the 2016 agreement. According to the RCF, the total of the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Sitia owes EUR 981,460 as balances of accrued earnings for the period 2010-2015 and EUR 821,700 as redundancy compensation to former employees. These numbers are not questioned by anyone, not even by the company itself. The following also emerges in the EPRD data: The cooperative, as early as December 2011, owed seventy-four employees earned 564 000 euros. For these delays the APRD, following a union complaint, sent a complaint to the prosecutor. Subsequent work promises of a part of the then staff from November 2011 to May 2013. In May 2013, the cooperative was not attending the trialogue meeting of the APRC for the repayment of the entrants. He sent a memorandum without mentioning a proposal for a solution. However, in July 2013, the employees interrupted the pre-arrangement and since then none of them have applied to the APR. In 2015 complaints of contracts of employment, i.e. redundancies, were made, and in 2016 the agreement was made to repay debts on the basis of the cooperative resolution plan. This agreement was based on the indirect assumption that, between 2016 and 2020, the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Sitia would have managed to retreat. This seems to have not been achieved and now we have a new proposal for the resolution of the CSM, in which, according to the workers, it is attempting to overthrow the 2016 agreement. I've gone far beyond time. I'm going to continue on secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u209	Minister, you said a lot, but nothing about the truck. That's the point. The history is obviously that. We have these historic things here, as the Union's administration puts forward its arguments, and there are letters from the coordination committee of the Union's sacked and retired people. You have chosen to adopt the argument of the Union's administration, which is responsible. It is one of the three who have a responsibility for this destiny resolution plan. I told you in the theory that it is political, with your political responsibility, whether the workers are finally going to be "worked" - I put it in introductory terms because they have suffered many consequences - or whether they are condemned. Now, I understand that you're trying to build a point of order for the workers to be convicted. But to make a few things clear, Minister. Are you in favor or are you in the interest of people getting their money? If you're in favor of getting their money, it means you have to make some moves. That's the first. Secondly, since 2010, the Sitia Union has begun to deal with these problems that you have mentioned. On May 30, 2016, with a demand from Piraeus Bank and the association's administration, the workers have been blackmailed - you are passing it over, overcoming the fact that the one-life workers are being blackmailed under the threat of redundancies, under the threat that they will not get their money - to sign a gross unfair agreement, which provides for payment of a small part of their redundancy payments only, while the interest-free payment was envisaged, which, due to the long delay, had almost doubled the amount due. At the same time, they resigned from any enforcement procedure that had been initiated for the collection of the entrants. The plan that the workers were blackmailed to sign, due to their financial impoverishment, provided for the payment of the contracted and the redundancy allowance to start from 31-12-2020 and to be completed at the end of 2025. That is, after 2020, to be paid for after 15 years. Despite the unfair and extortionist agreement signed by the workers, they were patient, waited carterically at the end of 2020 to collect the first instalment of their belongings after so many years. Whilst workers were waiting happily for their earnings to be paid, the union administration secretly went without any information from the workers and signed the new resolution agreement, which provides for a 80% cut in earnings and a repayment in 2040. We're talking about stealing now! It's theft of the workers! It's theft of the toil, the sweat of the workers, and humiliation at the same time! At the same time, for the requirements of the Bank, the total debts to which it is committed are EUR 32,200,000, is estimated that 5,700,000 will be repaid in 12 instalments, while the remaining amount will be paid in 2035, i.e. before the employees are paid back. To be clear, we as a Communist Party of Greece state absolute support for workers' fair demands. It is fair to demand, because the loan sharks - the legitimate loan sharks, because only so can they be characterized - are at the moment stealing the trouble, sweat and hardship in the name, quickly, of saving the cooperative, by squeeze out the workers, employees of the union and farmers. So the political question is to be answered, Minister. We therefore call on you not to consent to crime and to - let me say - a slump against workers, because that is what this is about. Workers are asking you to take all the necessary steps to justify them, starting with the public support of their struggle - now, here today - until they meet their fair demands for the performance of all Union workers and compensation under the 2016 agreement and not to be included in the new proposal of the resolution plan. If the law does not provide for it, behold Rhodes, regulate it by means of a ministerial amendment. That may well be the case. After all, ministerial amendments have become a science. If you do not, then the government as a whole is accountable to the workers, as is all the Stalinists and Stalinists, who must draw their conclusions to the government's attitude as well as to the local government which defends the interests of workers only in words. Finally, you must answer from now on: Who, in the end, is telling the truth and who is lying? You think you or Mr. Plakkatakis? Because Mr Plakkatakis, at a teleconferencing conference with the workers, said specific things. He said he fully declares support for the fair demands of sacked workers and calls on the administration of the SAA to implement the 2016 Agreement. It matters. We can't now 'at least with the policeman and the policeman', but you, Mr. Plakkatakis, are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u211	Decide who's telling the truth and who's lying, who's making fun of who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, because we still have several questions, I would ask you, like the Ministers, to be as consistent in our time as we can. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u213	You're right, Madam President. Mr. Synatiakis, you referred to a number of things. You have invoked me for a number of things, but you have not called into question either the facts I have presented or the figures I have given. In addition, you invite me to take a stand on one thing that is before justice. I don't think that's acceptable. But let me reply in detail. As I have already pointed out in my prototype, this case has a long history and is rather unusual in many respects. In any case, I repeat that after 2013, according to the Labour Inspectorate, none of the workers appealed to the AAR. Last week the APRC carried out an on-the-spot check on the company, asking for written explanations on the case, as well as aggregated statements of the remuneration due to the staff of the company. The company submitted the explanations and, indeed, the figures are what I said before: it owes sixty-six employees EUR 981,460 for the period 2010-2015 and an amount of EUR 821,700 as redundancy payments. According to the RCF, the company did not comply with the remuneration schedule, as agreed with the former employees and proceeded to this resolution agreement, which will be discussed at the Lassithi Court on 23 June 2021. The fact that the employees did not appeal from 2013 until today to the Labour Inspectorate has drastically reduced the scope for intervention of the SEA, while the signature of the 2016 private agreements between the former workers and the company, which the Agricultural Cooperative has subsequently failed, has made it even more difficult to satisfy their fair request for compensation. I stress it, of their fair request. Indeed, it is, as you describe it. But there is also a specific legal framework. Personally, I understand the deadlock of the workers. However, with their choice of actually agreeing to their dismissals and not benefiting from the protection provided by labour law, they have brought themselves into a position of weakness. A dispute of a working nature has now been raised in a private way, and this is extremely problematic for the court, which has to take stock of interests and decide on the debts which - I repeat - are not even questioned by the APRC. And the APRC may testify before all authorities, where requested. According to the memorandum submitted by the workers to the Lassithi Polyolent Court, they are asking that all their labour requirements be excluded from the new resolution agreement, since their claims and the method of repayment were already regulated by private consortia, which were an annex to the initial resolution plan. In a favoured state such as the Greek, the division of powers and the rule of law require that the executive should not intervene in cases which the judiciary treats. I explained in detail that the workers in the Association of Agricultural Partnerships before they ended up in the courts agreed to the non-interference of the Labour Inspectorate when their contracts were denounced. The Ministry of Labour could therefore not be seized and it did not intervene correctly. The fact that they agreed to and signed a private contract with the company in view of the resolution plan has its importance and is to be assessed by the court very soon in June. At this stage, the Ministry of Labour is monitoring the case. However, the operational independence it enjoys - and it must be enjoyed - means that it only decides on the basis of its law and conscience, without being able to give it any instructions from any member of the government. Respect for the judicial independence also means that members of the government should avoid public statements concerning pending trials and can be interpreted as an attempt to influence the judicial decision. I think that's it and should be understood by everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formatography presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the revised Code of Anti-Dopting from 01-01-2021 of the World Organisation for Anti-doping". Now we will discuss the last, which is the second with number 3221/13-1-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - questions, the Member of the Bootia of the Change Movement Mr.George Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In despair, farmers due to the undead situation in the Regional Department of Central Greece of e-FKA". The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou, will answer. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you know very well - I am sure - that the EVA of the farmers in Central Greece is facing too many malfunctions. It cannot fulfil its basic objectives and tasks, of course, its obligations towards pensioners. For some time now, it has been in a substantial suboptimal state - and we have repeatedly been here, and we have told the government - with pension delays of up to three years and touching signs of hunger on the part of the remote farmers. Instead of raising the issue of more rapid retirement decisions, there is a clear question, Mr Minister, the permanentity and consolidation of the pensions of farmers, and even under conditions of pandemic, under economic difficulty, difficult economic conditions. We have said this - Mr Minister, on several occasions, the issue both with the recruitment of staff required, according to the provisions of Law 2190, but also several months ago, more than a year ago, we had asked that there should be an examination of the issue of the retiring officials from the e-Venezia farmers who know how the pension is awarded and how the e-Vengers' pension is issued. Unfortunately, the situation does not go hand in hand with our proposals. They are therefore reasonable, Mr Minister, the questions of farmers and the issues raised by these people, their protests and, in particular, the e-ECA of farmers of Central Greece. Questions are very specific, Minister. You know very well that we did not have the honour of answering either the question from 09-12-2020 or the question from 13-01-2021. That is why today is being discussed as a topical question. Is the Ministry concerned, and how is it faced with the continuing delay in the retirement of farmers, over three years? Also, how will these pensioners be able to live without pension, given the economic and health crisis that is continuing and prolonging? What concrete steps will the Ministry take to ensure that the three-year delays in the award of pensions are met? Is there any intention of strengthening the services that are in need of staff and, if you've examined it, is there a timeframe for these people to know what's going on too? Of course, Minister, what we are asking for - I believe you will respond to this - is the ones from 2016 until today - that is, how many regional pension applications have been, how many have been implemented and how many have been recovered, so that we can finally understand what has been done with the e-VEN of farmers of Central Greece. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, thank you for your question. I know that it has initially been tabled as a written question. This was a mistake of ours, the delay was between the ministry and the FBI. But I answered her. I don't know if you've received it, but you'll pick it up. He had a detailed answer. But I'll obviously answer here as well now. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has drafted a strategic plan for speeding up the award of outstanding pensions, which is currently at the heart of public dialogue. The size of the project has been developed in response to questions, some of which were yours, others were your colleagues. But this is part of a series of challenges facing our insurance system. The main challenge we face every day is the functional and organisational integration of the insurance funds, which was institutionalised by Law No.4387/2016, the well-known Katorugalou Law, and started with a very long delay. To be absolutely honest, this unification could not take place from day to day, but delays after the law was passed were literally unacceptable. The operational status of the funds merged with the ECA also has a catalyst on the issue of outstanding pensions. For the temporary relief of our fellow citizens, who are awaiting the award of their pensions, the Government has introduced with Law No 4778/2021, relatively recently, the advance payment of pensions, which is, in fact, granted retroactively for as long as the applicants wait for their final pension. The advance payment of a national pension is a temporary solution to economic liquidity in the problem of outstanding pensions. The draft drawn up by the Government for the drastic reduction of outstanding pensions extends to many axes. First of all, you are aware of the intake of a project manager with exclusive object of reducing the loose ends. We've got a hundred and eighty-six regular staff at the FBI. The process of filling the eighty-six posts for 2020 has already started through ASP and there are hundred other posts that the process will also run through ASP. The third is the setting-up of step-by-step employees, providing additional pay on the basis of the achievement of specific objectives, is the administration of the OLAF services with former staff from the funds that have already been retired. The experience of these experienced officials is crucial for speeding up the procedures for the award of outstanding pensions. They all have experience in the field of pension awards. We also have the additional staffing of the EPC by either chambers of science or other public bodies with six-month secondments and finally, the supply and upgrading of the necessary equipment so that employees through teleworking in the EPC can carry out their duties uninterruptedly. At the same time, the integration of the insurance funds also requires codification and the simplification - where necessary - of the existing legislative framework, in order to speed up the preparation of as many pension requests as possible from the existing integrated pension system. In addition to this, which concerns all those who are applicants for pension, I would like to point out something specifically for the farmers to whom you refer in your question. Farmers, especially those who have a continuous period of insurance in the former GAAP, are one of the first groups to benefit from the electronic pension award. This measure, which is constantly expanding to more and more categories, is expected to relieve thousands of our fellow citizens who are seeking retirement. The digital pension measure is part of the broader digital transformation of EVA, as well as of the broader digitisation of public services, which, on the occasion of the pandemic, has accelerated significantly over the past year. In this context, it is quite clear that a wide-ranging effort is being made to dismantle the structures of the ECA, with a view to better and faster service for the citizens. At the same time, the Ministry of Labour has set up a team to draw up the single benefit regulation with a view to consolidating the rules on benefits for insurance funds. I am in a position to tell you that until Easter it is expected that the findings of the Staff Committee, which is working on the relevant data, will be completed. In my dentext I shall refer in detail to the region of Central Greece and the statistics on your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Minister. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I do not hide from you that with your protology I am very concerned. I wonder how, the services suggest that such answers are given to the House. Why am I telling you this? With all due respect to your role and your course. On October 24, 2019, a question about the same subject from me and the Change Movement, on the same subject. Answer, not to tell the most popular what it's called. However, I will say: "It is not a part, because everything is a reflexive measure, but we must also see the future, which is not dealt with either with the human potential of EKKA or with good initiatives and efforts and intelligent functional and organisational changes. There will always be problems. The future is dealt with only by the digital leap and by the digital syntax ‘ITLAS’. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in 2019. This is the answer to the House, here in a timely question. Now you have told us what the services are proposing. Minister, I am sorry to say that the collectively and overall way in which the Ministry of Labour has chosen is a step forward. Retirement - I'll say it - when did it come out? He'll be out in two months. After a while, digital, he'll be out in a day. Now that it is the pile of four hundred forty thousand applications, the national pension is chosen. What will happen, Minister? Without any commitment to temporary retirement or permanent retirement, when will they be taken? National pension. It was said that the loose ends would be settled by the end of 2021. I think that you rightly and wisely referred to the handling of a sufficient number at the end of the year 2021, in any event. We are not, of course, talking about retrospectives, which we said last time, those who have more than thirty years of insurance, which are transferred from month to month. But what is the fact, Minister? It is that farmers have been satisfied for more than three years - some requests have been made - at the ECA of Central Greece remain without a pension. They're retired, unretired, and the drama continues. Experiments are being carried out - I will say it - in terms of the Ministry. I guess something is wrong, because there is no response and there is no effect here today, and we want to have results. Because when we told Mr Brutsi, 'take the staff who have left, who has the know-how, to get the pensions out faster, there was a 'door', in the commonly called. We have reached the point after a year and a half to say: let's see what we're going to do. That's not politics. There is either a policy in the government or there is no policy. There isn't. It is'seeing and doing', Minister. I'm sorry to say that. Pensioners are waiting, farmers are waiting for pensioners. It's the major drama and you know it, I believe, and you realize it, a retired farmer and not retired. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u221	Dear Mr Mulkiotis, I have referred to digital pensions and mentioned for two specific categories, one of which is farmers. But what farmers? Those who only have meanings in the former OGA. The second category is pensions which are from the death of a pensioner. Digital pensions were awarded last year, which was more than twenty thousand. We already have other categories in place, and indeed we hope to include as many pensions as possible in this category. The long-term solution to our problem there is to digitize the whole system and digitize the existing file. Now, as I said in my prototype, the functional integration of the insurance funds under the umbrella of the ECA is the passport for the next day of the insurance system in the country. We do not ignore the totalitarian nature of the rules and benefits of the funds, which have been merged into the ECA, but we are working towards effective integration. The work is titanium and time-consuming. According to the update of the administration of EFKA, in December 2019 the Regional Department of Central Farmers of Greece was merged with the Regional Department of Wages Fathotidas, aiming to maintain the well-functioning functioning of the organisation and to provide citizens with a better service. They have more points to which the oldest insurers of the OGA can now be addressed. At the same time, as I said before, the start of the procedures for filling eighty-six regular staff for 2020 and another 100 posts and also regular staff for 2021, a number of which are expected to be placed in the area of eastern Central Greece. Also, in what you mentioned earlier, we also have recently retired ECA officials with experience in the award of pensions, and also a number of them are to be placed in the specific reference area. In addition, the administration of the ECA has informed the Ministry of Labour that detailed instructions for the immediate granting of a provisional pension have been issued in the event that it is not possible to adopt a final decision in a relatively short time. In fact, especially for farmers, with Mr.4714/2020, the Brutsi Act, a threshold has been set for temporary pensions, which is equal to national pensions, irrespective of their contributions. With regard to the information you ask for in your question on pension applications and outstanding applications, according to the information provided to the Ministry of Labour by the ECA administration, pension applications for the period 1-1-2016 until the end of November 2020 were about eight and a half thousand, the outstanding pensions for the regional section of Greek solid farmers are just over three thousand. It's three thousand fifty three, actually. If you do remove, it results and how many have already been satisfied. These figures relate to pensions, which were submitted to the Regional Department of Central Greece as a whole and not by regional unit, as independently of their place of residence, farmers submit the application in this section. In other words, I need to find the farmers' address. I can't do it to tell you by regional unit. But the number you asked me for is that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break because the Minister for Rural Development has been delayed, so we will start as soon as it arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. The third question will be discussed with number 579/19-3-2021 in the first cycle of the MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Financial aid for the variety of tobacco from the Eastern type of Thrace'. Mr. Ahmet, good evening, and good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u224	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, we come to this plenary session of the House addressing this government for the third time: The two were toward Mr Vorides on the same subject and this is the third time with a timely question. Minister, you know, the tobacco-producing variety of 'basma' is cultivated only by the members of the Muslim community in Thrace. Just from them. And why am I saying that? It's important. Since 2018, we have seen that the loss of these people's income is tragic. And we're talking with numbers. They had a loss of income of about 18 million euros. From 41.7m euros went to 17m euros. In 2018, not only were they not satisfied with their damages from the necrosis, where a horizontal de minimis compensation was given, but without the damage being fully paid, but followed by the loss of income from the pandemic and followed by this loss of income until today. And you, Minister, have come to the House 15 days ago and said to the House - to another honourable colleague from SYRIZA - that he intends to give de minimis compensation to the Virginias, while in his second language you said that this is not the case. So the first question - I will develop in my dentistry the arguments - is why you exclude the variety of 'basma' from this loss of income because of the pandemic. We are not talking now about eighteen de minimis and do not give me that answer, and I have an answer for that in my second language. Why are you excluded from the loss of income due to a pandemic of the "basma" type? Secondly, why this special scientific committee, promised twice by Mr Vorides, your predecessor - okay, you can say: I do not know what happened, but there is a continuation in the state - because this special scientific committee has never been made, in order to provide state aid, which they deserve - I will develop it in my second language - from you? These are the questions and I expect your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u225	The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanese. Minister, good evening! I haven't had a chance to tell you iron! You have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I fully respect your sensitivity and your efforts with parliamentary control to bring the matter to Parliament, which concerns your region and your fellow citizens. As I said last time, for replying on the same subject, on tobacco to your colleague Mr Haritou, the government stands on the side of Greek and Greek producers to deal with the pandemic. It has spread a coherent plan worth EUR 24.5 billion in 2020 and EUR 11.5 billion for 2021 so far. As the Prime Minister has made quite clear, we try and do not want to leave any Greek without the necessary support. In particular, I have personal knowledge, experience - I said it last time - and personal sensitivity because of my origin from a traditional tobacco producer area. So I have the knowledge of the labor and the hard work involved in this cultivation. It is a crop that supported and shaped generations of Greeks and Greeks, which supported our national economy, a crop that requires sacrifices today, especially in the adverse conditions in which it takes place. We are with the tobacco producers, wherever they may be, in Rhodope, in Agrini, in Central Macedonia, in every area where tobacco is planted. In the same sense and sensitivity, we face all the bio-producers throughout Greece. In this spirit the Ministry, unlike what you say in your written question - you did not repeat it today - has supported the cultivation of 'basma' tobacco. In 2018, I will come to today, just once again the history - de minimis of 8.2 million in tobacco producers in Thrace, of which 5.5 million were given to Rhodope. In 2019, a de minimis of EUR 2.3 million was granted to growers in the region of Western Greece, in western and central Macedonia and in Thessaly. Overall, 10.5m euros have been disbursed. At the same time, ELGA covered the damages deemed eligible by its regulation to pay EUR 2.4 million to Rhodope for damages from weather phenomena. With regard to the strengthening of the 'Virginia' tobacco which I announced last time from here and to which you referred today, it was simply the implementation of our commitment. Our government, the Prime Minister and his government are making its promises, or they're not giving them up. He keeps what he says in all directions. I now come to the reason why this money was given. Because I would remind you that these beneficiaries of this aid were excluded from the compensation granted in 2018-2019 precisely in this variety of eastern tobacco that you describe. This money, that is, which we promised and provided, in spite of all the difficult financial conditions, to the producers of Virginia, are coming to balance the money that had been given, especially to your own producers, who had received the corresponding aid in 2018-2019. Today we are in a very difficult situation, which you all know. I have here a report from the statements made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, which cost 750 million euros every week in Lockdown. In this difficult budgetary period, therefore, the government is trying to change the picture fully and our country manages to borrow at very low to negative rates, and we also have the power to make this policy that we are doing. So, in this context, like the previous one I answered here, we cannot afford to give new money, despite the fact that we understand what you say and understand the difficulties of tobacco growers and, above all, of your own tobacco producers, who live on very small crops. Our will is commensurate with yours. We want to support tobacco producers and try it. However, we do not currently have the cash power to implement it. As far as the committee you are talking about and as my predecessor was recommending in March 2020, this committee was indeed set up and had a deadline to deliver its findings in three months, but unfortunately it was not. Since I went to the Ministry and came to my knowledge, we have already started the process of re-establishing this committee, and I hope that soon it will deliver this conclusion on these changes, which have arisen in income, and we will probably be able to create the financial space to cover your fellow tobacco producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u227	Thank you too, Minister. Here, Mr. Ahmet, you have the floor for three minutes. I hope you're not six.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u228	Mr Minister, unfortunately today you have disappointed the tobacco producers in Thrace. You said no, an excuse you didn't have any money. You said our fund budget for loss of income doesn't have any money. Hey, what can we say? When this government finds money to pay for the loss of income to other producers - and I cannot say that people are not entitled to it, well they did and took it - when it comes to not giving the tobacco producers "bass" to the minority, I have nothing to say. Secondly, you said an excuse, a misleading, in my opinion, that in 2018 we took de minimis and therefore we are not entitled to take a second time de minimis. What are you talking about? The previous government gave de minimis 100 euros for loss of income when the income loss was 80% for "basma". He gave horizontal compensation for customer reasons in other prefectures, without covering the damage. The result was that while there is a finding from the prefecture that it is clear, clear that it was a necrotic impulse and was entitled to state aid, the commander of ELGA came to SYRIZA Mr. Kurebes and said "I reject it" in October 2019. Retrospectively, Mr Vorides - I shall put it to the Minutes of the House - said in the first time-in-time question: 'We have the political will to compensate tobacco producers because they had lost income for this year'. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] However, since the promise of this Government has not been fulfilled, I have come back with a new timely question, which Mr Vorides says again, 'because I think the committee leaves a window, my position on this particular matter is that a special scientific committee will be set up', which was never established. You said today that you would be set up on your own government and give an opinion on this subject, which I say is clear. On the other hand, for cotton in Rhodope, in the same time as Mr Vorides - and the conclusion - he said there was no loss of income due to the introduction. However, we have heard today that de minimis will be given and that is why we are happy, of course. We're not saying people don't take, but let's tell the truth in this Chamber. Those who can't hear us see that cotton producers who had no income loss will get - well they'll do and get - compensation. So, seeing that other social groups, producers, in Greece, are being helped to lose income from the pandemic, we are asking you the obvious, Minister, which is what is going on here after all? Do you have a will? Why do you do this to the tobacco producers, the basmaids? Why the fuck are these revolts? Why three years are you afflicting these people? Is it not possible that they had 18 million euros of damage? And then we're talking about a intergroup committee. What cross-party committee? We have set up a cross-party committee to support the primary sector. So you will support the primary sector, depriving them of what they are entitled to? We are not asking for tobacco producers to be merciful or for more. We ask for our damage we did not get in 2018 and we still lose it because of a pandemic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like your tolerance. We have our problems. People leave abroad. Minority is rooted out. He's leaving abroad. Do you want this? I ask you honestly. Is the government's will to leave these people to go abroad and not to stay there? You're a decent man. I respect you, and I know you're from a tobacco-growing area. You know what smoke means. Ten acres grow! Ten acres! I mean, they make 10,000 euros. When they have lost 80% of their income, can they live with 2,000 euros? And today we come here twice, three times and hear: 'We have no money'? No one had to exist to them! I say it so clearly. I'm not just asking, it's their right! The injustice these people have suffered is so proud. So, Minister, I would like you to commit here today for the Special Scientific Committee on State Economic Aid (CEC), for which both meteorological data are available and met, all five conditions for opening the road or in any event, to give a de minimis compensation for real income loss and for the tobacco producers of 'bamads' in Western Thrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr Ahmet. Here, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u230	Dear colleague, I'm starting with the last one. It is clear that there is no misinterpretation, that we fight every day, twenty-four hours a day for exactly the opposite. We don't want any of our fellow citizens to leave to work abroad. Since the first time we took over the reunions of governance, our attempt is to bring back these five hundred thousand fellow citizens who have left. So in this context and in order to avoid any misinterpretation of what you say mainly or what I might say, I think the answer is clear. As to the part of whether we are telling the truth or not, we are telling the truth and the truth is, unfortunately, bitter. Our country's budgets are now too narrow and we are trying with the money we have, to be able to support as many social groups as possible. I said it before, and I said it the previous time I answered this question, that I fully respect the anguish of yours and the attempt and reduction of incomes suffered by the bio-populators of small tobacco producers in your prefecture. If you can help us and tell us how we can find the money immediately - yesterday - to give it to me, it would be my pleasure. I'm waiting for you and tomorrow at the office to talk about it. From there on, I am sure that on your passion to support your fellow citizens' request you have escaped a little and essentially, you have made an effort to turn towards other social groups and other producers. I think that social automation does not speak to you either. We do not want to create such divisions between our productive groups. We want with patience, with a plan, hard effort to find as much money as we can to support almost all of the Greek producers if we can. Of course, within them are the tobacco producers in your county and wherever they are located and have received this blow. You have no doubt, then, that we are neither lying nor in a bad mood. We are trying to find the money to satisfy those groups they need. A further comment on the committee. The committee was set up. Nobody lied. He just didn't have time to complete the smoke finding. We once again recommend this committee to give us this conclusion. My dear colleague, we are on the same side of the river and on the same side we are fighting to solve this problem together and I hope we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ahmet, I wish you well all the time. Let's go to the fifth with number 588/21-32021, a timely question for the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "We must protect the feta." Mr. Loyadis, good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Good week, everyone. Minister, feta is the Greek gold, the flagship of the Greek agri-foodstuffs. On 9 March this year a company of Greek interests, which operates in the exporting sector of agricultural products from Greece to Germany, made a serious complaint about the production and placing on the market of defective feta feta and, in particular, of the distortion rate with cow's milk ranging from 30% to 80%. As proof of these allegations, the complainant brought two opinions from two specialised different German laboratories. The incident has wider dimensions. The feta is one of Greece's main export products, with increased demand on international markets. The PDO product mark, which safeguards the feta name is only for the traditional cheese produced in Greece from Greek sheep and goat milk at 70% - 30%. We must preserve it as an eye daughter and must not be undermined by errors or illegalities that need to be in-depthly controlled. At the same time you know that the industrialised countries of the north - Denmark, Germany - view this cheese. They want their own cow cheese, white cheese to sell as feta. Note that the production of feta offers great added value to the economy, as many different professions are employed and thousands of families of farmers and farmers are maintained throughout Greece. The fact that until the time that these findings were notified by Germany, the Greek Agricultural Organization - the ELGO - knew absolutely nothing, shows that either he has no knowledge at all or was totally happy. It also highlights the enormous weakness of the ELGO, which is incapable of confirming, with its own samples, the existence and size of any illusion, illegality before this complaint. You ask, Mr Minister: First, there has been or is there been an in-depth examination of this company by the services of the Ministry, such as the "ELGO - DIMITRA" and what sanctions does the Ministry intend to impose on the company? Secondly, why has this infringement not been found before the product reaches the shelves in Germany? Thirdly, on the occasion of the incident, what measures does the Ministry intend to take in relation to the protection of the PDO trade mark against such practices in the future and how does it intend to ensure the increased need for Greek sheep and goat milk due to the growing international demand for feta? Finally, is there any inadequacy or frustration of the control mechanisms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, I will need your tolerance in time, because it is a very important matter and I thank Mr Loyades very much, because it is a really timely question. I want to start by clarifying this. None of us can but be tolerated in cases of distortion of our products. This is our position, why, if we do not respect our own PDO products, how do we make others respect them? If, for example, a producer of feta, as you said before, is marketing a defective product, then it does not only perpetuate the obvious, that is, unfair competition to the consistent producers, but it also hurts the image of the quality of a product for which we are proud. It gives arguments to all those abroad who would very much like to be able to forge as a so-called "feta" of all kinds of white cheese of their production. You're right about that. It seriously damages our national economy and the very concept of Greek food, which we are trying to protect and above all to highlight. That is why we are thoroughly considering any such complaint we receive. If, after the audit, the complaint is well founded, you can be sure that sanctions will be strict, with absolute respect for Greek and European legislation. I would remind you, moreover, that it was our government that voted for Law 691/2020, which provides for strict penalties, financial and criminal penalties for those who commit PDO and PGI fraudulent PDO products. Protection of the origin and identity of products and foodstuffs ensures their quality. With regard to the complaint, which you refer to in your question and repeat today, I note the following. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food immediately forwarded them to the ELGO the body responsible for implementing the legislation on PDO and PGI products. The ELGO, in turn, immediately started the relevant audit, carrying out on-the-spot checks at the company’s headquarters. In the context of the control and data of the findings so far, the ELGO has decided to temporarily withdraw the certification permit for the production of PDO feta from the company concerned due to non-compliance with the production specifications, as laid down in the relevant legislation. So he did what you would like and you would like to do, and everyone would want to get done instantly. Such withdrawal shall be valid until the completion of the checks, the implementation of appropriate corrective actions by the undertaking and the sending of relevant documentation as laid down in the law. At the same time, control is evolving and is expected to adopt the relevant overall findings of the ELGO. As regards the penalties that the Ministry intends to impose, because control, as I have said, is still under way, all I can answer is that the letter of the law will be kept in full. If fraud turns out, then penalties must be strict for one reason above, so that no one can ever think about doing the same again. The protection of our PDO products is a top priority for us. As far as protection measures are concerned, which you are right to ask what the Ministry is doing and in what direction is it going, I will be allowed, Mr President, to take some more time to list them. Firstly, restructuring of controls for greater efficiency. We have already recommended to the Ministry a task force which forms the overall design and legislative framework of the checks carried out by the Ministry itself, but also the supervised bodies, so that it can be restructured with a view to simplifying and operating more effectively. Secondly, cooperation with our embassies on controls at international level. We are developing cooperation with our economic commercial followers in embassies abroad to take concrete samples every month and carry out the relevant checks. Thirdly, cooperation with the Ministry of Finance on in-depth and detailed controls. We have asked the Ministry of Finance to acquire our own control mechanisms to look at the information bases of the Ministry of Finance, so that we can cross-check the critical import data - exports of intra-Community acquisitions and markets abroad. Fourthly, the aid for the offenders. Apart from the other penalties, those condemned for fraud or alteration of PDO-PGI products will not be able to participate in European funding programmes, and for integration into national aid programmes it will also be compulsory to produce a certificate from the ELG for the proper maintenance of the balances of meat and milk. So we put them to a much larger size. Fifth, digitization of the milk trade control. The ELGO is already running a pilot project in Larissa, which has a very positive effect. In particular, it concerns a direct update of the ‘ARTEMIS’ system at the very time of the collection of milk from the tank, which will have an electronic tracking mechanism in place. As I said before, in the Larissa prefecture - Mr Kolkalis, who sits in front of you - and we will extend it to all milk-producing areas. Sixthly, the establishment of yields of cheese on the basis of international literature and following a dialogue with market operators is initiated in order to declare a minimum amount of milk per kilogram of feta. This will make it easier to identify possible frauds. You understand what I'm saying. Seventh, severe penalties for all, but extermination of sentences in particular for perpetual offenders. The ELGO has set up a special register of infringement companies, where the companies that violate the legislation will be recorded. In other words, there will be a detailed register to deal with more severely random relapses. Eighth, exceptional sampling checks on imports and exports of PDO and PGI products as a means of further preventing such practices exploring the country and its contagious products both at the border and within the companies. On the occasion of your question - and I would like to thank you again for that - I would like to express, once again, the intention of the Ministry to protect all Greek products from phenomena of fraud and illegal Greekism. We are determined to protect, but also to highlight the Greek food and its values for the good of all Greek producers, consumers and the entire national economy. In this attempt we want to offer you all apron and I am very open to any ideas you have, to any participation in our working group, so that we can find practical solutions and be more effective, because it is a given issue that is not a party. It concerns all of us politicians here and above all all all all all Greek producers. So also in your dentistry, but at any time you or other of our colleagues want, my door is open to accepting your proposals and assisting you in dealing with this phenomenon. It is our decision to have substantial and great results in the year we are going through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loyades, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry. The Minister said there are laws. It is therefore enough to implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u236	That's right. Thank you very much, Minister. It was very thorough about your answer to your prototype. So, as you ask: Mera25, like the Association of Greek Animals, we ask farmers to be strengthened immediately, because they have a huge problem of surviving the price of feedingstuffs by 30%, the increase in the price of veterinary medicinal products by 37%, the increase in the price of petrol due to Green Energy, due to the enormous lack of liquidity they have and because of the pandemic, recently. It is a matter of a national strategy to strengthen the many small producers, farmers and farmers, and I stress this as a Member of the European Parliament and a member of the Committee of the Regions for Island and Mountain Areas. Because of the decline in income, they leave the living parts, they leave their islands, their homes, problems of hypogenicity, of policing, deserting areas and islands, and the primary sector is being destroyed at the end. I would like us to remember in 1980 when the agricultural sector contributed approximately 30% to the country's GDP. In 2000 it fell to 14% and in 2018-2019 to 5%. It is called the Ministry of Rural Development, but this is a ministry of shrinking, not development. Unfortunately, we also see that 1% of rural enterprises control 70% of farmland in the world. This creates enormous disparities, imbalances and we note that in the last four decades the biggest shift in land ownership has taken place in the United States and in the European Union, where rural areas have gone to less hands and independent growers working under strict conditions on behalf of retail, commercial and investment companies. The biggest landowner in the world right now is Bill Gates. Let's highlight that, too. What are we talking about when Greece imports five thousand tons of vine leaves from China and the Chinese exporter has enriched? If possible, he'd make dolphins in China and export them to us. Secondly, there should be strict sample checks, as you have said, both internally before the product is exported from a common mechanism, the "ELGO - DIMITRA" and the FET, and abroad. Let me stress here that 63% of the feta is consumed within Greece by the focus and is a label placed on the worldwide known Greek salad, "Greek Salad". And that's one more thing for tourism. When we want quality tourism, we must have absolutely reliable products. Strict sanctions should be imposed when illegality is established, as you have said. Fourthly, the control mechanism, the one attested by the ELGO - DIMITRA, must be absolutely reliable, because this guarantees the quality of the product, in the particular case of feta, and this certified quality gives greater added value to the product. In our opinion, the members of the board of directors of ELGO - DIMITRA should be one of the producers and processors and should appoint to the Ministry the chairman of the board. Otherwise, where the audit body is unreliable, the product is struck. The feta as a PDO product is the flagship of Greek production. When the flagship is hit, the battle is lost, the war is lost. Consider what damage Antwerp would suffer as a diamond center if they found diamond dealers there with false or falsified diamonds. If a cheese called rockfort or parmesan type appeared on the market, then there would be a huge political problem, a matter in France or Italy. We believe that the Greek state should shield, support and be a good one for exporting enterprises, which are mostly small, against the giants of the retail trade in the European Union, against huge feta-sharing chains. There must therefore be a reliable system where these milk-producing animals are Greek breeds, this milk produced in Greece, is 70% sheep, 30% goat, control in Greece and abroad and the board of ELGO consists in the majority of producers and processors. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we in Mera 25 are opposed to land-based wind parks, because, beyond the environmental problem, they are deporting and reducing farm land. I would also like to highlight the huge problem with the posting of recent forest maps. Finally, I should like to mention that in 2011 at the 'GALERIES LAFAYETTE' store in Paris, 100ml of olive oil was sold at EUR 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u237	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u238	Dear Mr. Logiadis, I understand from your denture that I have covered you completely in relation to what we are doing in this particular case, because you did not come back. I also understand that the measures that I have announced today on the occasion of your really timely question cover you and if you think of anything else you will also be taking part in our working groups in the next few days to suggest it to us. I say this because your position was of fundamental interest, but it was all about Greek agricultural production and the Greek economy. I respect your concerns, I understand what you are saying in this direction, which you described before, that moves our Ministry and that is our political will to overthrow this negative balance. Last year was a good year, we moved that way. The coronary crisis has shown the strengths of Greek production. We are trying to highlight precisely the particular nutritional values that our Greek products have. Indeed, you also referred to oil and olive and feta. These are our national products, we must highlight them even more, and that is the policy that we are pursuing. With regard to how we are fighting fraud and illegal Greekism, however, I think that today's debate will be useful, because we have set the framework within which we are going to move. Greece has the potential to do the job properly, has a strict Community framework since last year. We must all politically strengthen this idea, this move, show that we all have the political will. We - I mean by the government, the state - need to act better on the control mechanisms so that we have a clearer result and the criticism is always made to carry out even more control and to show even better the dynamics of Greek products. Thank you again for the question. I am at your disposal for the cooperation, as I have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the third with number 580/19-3-2021. topical question for second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Mobility and marketing of pet animals in violation of national and Community legislation'. Mrs. Giannakopoulou, good evening, good week. You have the floor for two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the trafficking and marketing of pet animals in violation of national and Community legislation, which are recognised as living and feeling beings, are unfortunately a sad reality, which should not be placed in a civilised society. The European Parliament, with a view to highlighting and dealing effectively with this issue, has taken a number of actions, such as discussions, resolutions and others. Among other things, the European Union's Health and Food Safety Commissioner, Stella Kyriakidou, pointed out in one of the discussions that where illegal trade in cats and dogs is detected is not due to a lack of legislation, but to the fact that current legislation is not properly implemented by the Member States and we need to invest much more energy. I will present this statement by Mrs Kyriakidou for the Minister. In a resolution of 12 February 2020 on illegal trade in pet animals, the European Parliament of 12 February 2020 states, among other things, that illegal rearing of cats and dogs is often done at as low a cost as possible and that this takes place under terrible conditions, that there is a large number of falsified pet passports, often involving veterinarians working with traffickers, making checks far more difficult, and ensuring that there is a clear link between the European pet passport and the recording of pet microchip, in order to ensure that the origin of pet animals remains clear. I shall be tabling a motion for a resolution on this issue on 2, the resolution by the European Parliament. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. The same is true of the Commission's internal document, which I shall table, so that you can see it and have it in your knowledge, Mr Minister. This is an internal working document of the European Union. In our country, on the other hand - and here there is a great deal of talk - there is evidence of the violation of the European regulations on these matters and of the introduction of pet animals for sale, from illegal farms, of consignments of stray pets under pretext of adoption, but unfamiliarly, Minister. Of course, according to these publications, consignments of stray animals are classified on the commercial market and circulate on foreign websites to a financial amount of EUR 300 or 400. I shall present to you, Mr President, four, the translated values of animals per head. It has also been demonstrated, Mr President, that the transported animals for which passports had been issued were either not recorded on the Ministry of Rural Development's digital database or were recorded, without national legislation being complied with. I will present to you the relevant 5, where it is a publication of the newspaper "ELEVEROS TYPOS" for a animal smuggling circuit in Volos. While, as a Member State, in accordance with Article 42 of Regulation No 576/2013, we should have adopted effective measures of the regulation, but also sanctions -, Minister - effective, deterrent and proportionate to address this issue more effectively, unfortunately nothing has been done so far. I will give you the relevant number 6, answering a question from the Member, Mr Amyras, on the practical measures that he says nothing has been done in the Greek state to implement these sanctions. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you what measures you intend to take to deal effectively with this incomprehensible phenomenon, the trafficking and trafficking of pet animals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulos. The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanese will answer. Mr. Lebanon, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u242	By analogy, a five-minute question you consider what response it needs. Dear Mrs Giannakopoulou, dear colleagues and colleagues, the question of pet animals is undoubtedly a very crucial issue in which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the beginning has shown particular attention and sensitivity. And that's because it's data on multiple benefits in mental and physical health, but also on the socialization of man by coexistence with pet animals. As a lucky man, not only as the owner but also as a normal roommate of a dog, who is a member of my family, I can confirm that to you without reservation. Especially during the quarantine period, more and more fellow citizens decide to place a pet under their roof. Of course, the image as you described it, perhaps even worse, is not framed angelically. This is because not everyone is brought into love and interest in animals. On the contrary, unlawful activities, abuses, illicit trade, abandonment are alarmingly increasing and you are right in the evidence you are tabling and in the anguish you are tabling. That is why our Ministry, in cooperation with the competent bodies, the municipalities, the police, is fighting to fight and to find ways to better control and more sanctions. Illegal trade is a problem not only national, European, but globally as you know. Greece naturally applies European Union regulations to the extent that they are effective and in conjunction with national legislation, it takes steps to eliminate the exploitation effects of animals and illicit trade. The Ministry has a database on the labelling and registration of pet animals. In the field of controls, the PSC services at the difficult time we live in relation to human resources - nonetheless do their work - in cooperation with the relevant audit bodies, the police, the port authorities, are carrying out checks to see infringements in relation to the production, marketing and import of products and whenever necessary impose the necessary sanctions to the extent that they can. Indeed, much more needs to be done in this direction. Indeed, acknowledging the need to strengthen these controls, we completed last year the interconnection of the online application with the electronic services of ELAS. In this way, the checks are becoming faster and more effective, since the police can now draw the necessary data directly. This database is constantly enriched. To this end, seven hundred fifty detectors have been distributed to identify the identification of pet markings at the points of entry of the country, but also throughout the territory, in various control mechanisms, almost everyone, even in the forests, in the prefectures, in the airports and customs offices. The question, Mrs Giannakopoulou, is really timely and thank you for that. In the time that we are talking about, these days, our ministry in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, I on a daily basis with Mr Petsa, under the guidance of the Prime Minister, who is particularly sensitive and I think you know that, we are trying to shape a more modern and effective legal framework, which will use better practices, from which we have so far, in order to deal with this situation, to protect, if possible, all pet animals, dominating and straying, and to ensure their well-being. This draft law within the next few days will be put into public consultation in order for all stakeholders and stakeholders to express their views and their comments, which will of course be taken into account before the bill comes to a debate and a vote in the House. I therefore call on you and all those who will have this interest and specific sensitivities to contribute to this work with realistic thoughts and suggestions. We need substantial proposals - not only anguish - that will be very strong in reality and that will lead to the objectives that we want as a civilised society. It is a matter for us of culture and humanism, that is to say, our government has and shows its absolute sensitivity and does not intend, as I said at the outset, to show any tolerance. I will come back later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u243	Ms. Giannakopoulou, three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantina Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, you tell us that the government is sensitive to this matter. I have no reason to question your personal sensitivity. But the facts speak for themselves. And they speak exactly in the opposite direction, Minister. Unfortunately, so far, your Government has taken unresolved action and contradictory statements. You will allow me to tell you that, unfortunately, the problem is that you are not applying the regulations you should implement. That is the point, as I told you in my first speech. While - to speak very specifically, Minister - the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs at the Ministry of Rural Development is the responsible, the central authority that monitors and coordinates the implementation of the relevant legislation, as is the case in all the countries of Europe and, at the same time, recommends the necessary implementing measures, what is your Government doing? We see the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior, Minister, as it was not required, of presenting a draft law on pet animals, which runs counter to the European Convention on the Protection of Pets, the Code on Animal Health of the World Organisation for Animals, but also a number of Union provisions. This is a typical example of how you understand the criteria of good legislature and of the "executive" state. I would like to compare all those which, of course, you have said about the issue of establishing an animal register and about the digital history of animals, because already - and you know that, of course, you have mentioned it - we have with Mr. 4039/2012 - and it was introduced under Minister Kostas Scandalidis - a reliable electronic database for the recording of pet animals, which also includes the digital history of animals and accessible by all the competent authorities, thereby ensuring traceability and by extension the protection of animals. So I come to the possibility of adopting pet animals from philosophical associations based abroad. I would like to remind you on this point, Minister, because it is very important that in 2016 the New Democracy in Parliament through Mrs Asmakopoulou, your Member, then, said other than what you are doing right now. He said that the owner of the animal should be a natural person, in no case should any legal person, as you now give the possibility, and that there is an illegal movement of animals, which is done with the unpunished. 'We know that...' - as he said - '...very well and we are opposed to the interests which are served'. I will present the relevant report to you with Mrs Asmakopoulou's speech. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. This position of the New Democracy has also been confirmed by the Report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament - it is the relevant 8, which I shall be tabling - the report on the draft law. We now go to the payment of travel expenses, food or medical care, as has been announced, and it is a provision in the draft law which, as we say, unreservedly brings the Ministry of the Interior and not you as a debtor. Court of Justice judgment of the European Court of Justice states that there is a degree of similarity between the activity recommended by associations of dogs with that activity recommended for the sale of dogs from a pet store and therefore the first type of activity cannot be deprived of commercial character. I will give you the relevant 9 for the court ruling, which mentions exactly this issue from case-law. I will also testify, Minister, to convictions for the illicit trafficking and trafficking of stray animals, which were alleged to have been receiving pro-zootic associations based abroad, which have pet animals for money. I shall table the relevant 10 and 11- minutes and the decisions of the Athens Chamber without the sensitive personal data - to see the extent of the matter. I shall also testify to criminal prosecution against pro-zootic unions, which, according to the indictment, are alleged to be moving stray pet animals against money. It's practical 12. In Chania this particular case. I will also present to you the report by the Veterinary Office in Patras on the illicit trafficking and marketing of pet stray animals. So I wonder, Mr Levane, where this provision is aimed at in the bill that you are going to bring us. Where is it intended, if not to legitimise the trade in stray animals and to intervene in Greek justice and in the cases under way, which are being tried? This is where you understand that questions are being raised. What exactly does the government finally try to do? There's a grey belt. I also want to present you with a document on the confiscation of pet animals in Switzerland, which were not recorded in the U.S.S.P.A. database, although passports had been issued and had been marked. What steps have you taken to return these animals? Finally, Mr President, I am presenting a report from a veterinary service, which from an autopsy it carried out in an illegal area of animal concentration, states that eighty-nine passports and animal health records were found, blanks of veterinary operations, which were signed and sealed. We're talking about a circuit, Minister. We are talking about very serious things, very serious complaints based on evidence. E-identification forms were confiscated, which were also signed. Here, exhibition of the Veterinary Department of the Region of Crete. Therefore, with all this, which I have mentioned to you, I think it is clear that the illicit trafficking and trafficking of pet animals is facilitated by this whole history of uncontrolled and opaque use of passports without the legal possession of animals. Obviously, not all of this is being dealt with, Minister, under the behind-the-scenes procedure by an irresponsible ministry - I stress this - for drafting a draft law or for rejecting powers which, I repeat, are at the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u245	Please, close, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u246	I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Of course, some time ago, the Minister of Interior, Mr Vorides, made it clear here, in a press release, that in any case, the draft law on pet animals is a legislative initiative of the Ministry of Rural Development. What's changed, Mr. Levant? What's changed? But Mr. Voridis said at 5-22021 and you're doing other things. What happened? Why, firstly, have the implementing measures of European directives and regulations not been taken to protect pet animals effectively? Unfortunately, as we see it, an unresponsible ministry is taking legislative initiative, which belongs to you with the deafening - and I close - in the absence of all the relevant bodies and scientists in the background obviously and without broad and open dialogue. Photographic provisions are announced, which is inconsistent with neither the European acquis nor of course offer any serious and substantial protection to these creatures. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulos. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Spilios Lebanese, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u248	Madam President, I very much respect your anxiety and therefore the passion with which you support your positions and accept your criticism and the impetus you give us for greater efficiency and, in any case, for the achievement of objectives which, as I have said, are common. I also accept your criticism of the relationship with the European framework. These are issues which we will discuss in the next few days to clarify fully and clearly. But I do not accept your criticism of unresolved actions and contradictory statements. We are just at the same wavelength as you are, and we certainly have a single attitude and an agony, as I said before, as a government and as a natural person all of us on the issues you have raised. I think you quite rightly said that the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs is responsible for both welfare and animal welfare. That is indeed the case, and I am sure it will remain that way, because it is its responsibilities. From there on, Law 4039/2012, i.e. the existing legislative framework, needs to be improved. I said that before and as I understand you too. That is what we are trying to do with the new framework law that we bring together. In my opinion, it does not matter so much who the accelerating minister is, who will bring the bill here. It is important to have good cooperation between the ministries - which exists - and to find common places and have each of their responsibilities, so that we are more effective than what we are today. I remind you we don't come from virginity. These problems in pets existed and when your party was in the government. It didn't change anything then. I think it is wrong to put such issues in a party controversy. On the contrary, I believe that all of these elements, which you have tabled, are useful. A lot of these things I knew, but someone's new to me too. It is useful for us at this stage that we are doing the preparation of the bill that, as I said, will come to public consultation in the next few days. I wonder how you're so sure you've seen the provisions since they're not even ready. In any case, you are trying and running faster to protect us from mistakes that will be made and thank you for that. We want your assistance - for good, I say - we want your ideas not so much to teach us how to do better to prepare for this piece of legislation in Parliament, but how this piece of legislation can be more well-built, more effective then in its implementation so that we can deal with this really zealot issue which concerns us all and makes us all sad. I also want to say that for us it is very important to listen and work with the people who have devoted their lives to this effort. There are many of our fellow citizens who either alone or in various pro-zootic organisations are interested in and struggling for these issues, and they will, of course, have a strong say in this public consultation. The state, however, also has the responsibility of the Ministries of Interior and Rural Development, of carrying the framework and, above all, the state mechanism, the municipalities on the one hand, because you realise that the first job must be done through the municipalities, and of course, our Veterinary Office to work so that we can achieve the results that you and we are trying to achieve. Thank you for the question and for your contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much. Ms. Giannakopoulou, good luck. We enter the sixth year number 577/19-3-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Larisa - the Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Fighting the phenomenon of desertification and its consequences'. Mr. Red, good evening, good week, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, waiting for my turn to come, I have heard all the questions from colleagues who have had to deal with fair requests from producers for their cotton crops, tobacco, but others that are in the future and others that have been in the past. All this, so that we can talk about the progress of agricultural crops, so that we can talk about a model of agricultural production, requires a very basic issue, namely soil, land. It's a matter, you know, which is beyond and above any dispute and difference. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will certainly need a minute more, Mr President. In 1994, the United Nations adopted the Convention to combat the phenomenon of desertification, which was the result of ever-increasing climate change. Minister, the convention was ratified in 1997 by Law 2463/1997. A national committee was immediately set up to combat the phenomenon of desertification. This committee chaired Mr Jassoglu and members of Mr Zerevos, Mr Chandilla, the former director of the ETHA. This committee concluded and recommended the Greek national plan to combat desertification of rural land and countryside. This plan has been ratified and by Ministerial Decision. Recently there was a teleconferencing conference with the United Nations. Today, Minister, the Ministry and the Government are asking what you intend to do, with concrete actions, to set up the Committee on the fight against desertification, to reduce the fertility of our territories. It is very important that, apart from the management of the problems you have in the Ministry, you should also set targets, namely the priority hierarchy. With the question we are not simply asking, but we are proposing that the national committee should be set up immediately to combat the phenomenon of desertification. Secondly, to update the plan. It may also be necessary to update it. Thirdly, an information plan for the citizens of the farmers must also be drawn up. Believe me, it's perhaps one of the most important problems. We cannot talk about the development of Greek agriculture when the land is not fertile. Recently, because of 'January', we had huge damage to Thessaly, Carditsa and Farshala. Many of the fields, unfortunately, will not have the same fertility. One essential condition, Mr Minister, was the drawing-up of the land maps, which has so far not been done, even though two committees had been set up, even though they have reached a conclusion. It is not just crucial, it is very important that the state, the respective leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, has an image of the fertility of the territories in our country. Therefore, today - I conclude, Mr President - I expect the Minister for Rural Development to respond to these specific guidelines, to the specific actions that concern us in dealing with the phenomenon of desertification, abandonment, and to reduce the fertility of our territories. Without this basic condition, we cannot talk about any development model of Greek agriculture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Red. The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanese will answer you. Mr. Lebanon, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague, dealing with the consequences of climate change and protecting the environment are issues of vital importance to the whole of the world, which are particularly concerned with the international community. You are quite right that all the other questions I have answered today, all the discussions that we are having on agricultural production, all the efforts that we at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, all the anxiety of farmers throughout Greece and your own special interest in rural development, are dependent on this debate that we are having today. I am taking advantage of your question, so that we can all enter a substantial cooperation now to deal with this phenomenon of desertification of climate change. At the level of the European Commission, the climate challenges are, as you know, found in the first and main priorities in the context of green development. Our country obviously does not remain unreserved in this. Greece will achieve what is its responsibility for the great global effort. For the Government of New Democracy, the role that the country will play in this area is taken seriously. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when fully aware of the importance and the criticality of the issue, as you described it here from this step a moment ago, we have set as one of the main priorities - you have rightly said that we must put priorities - of course, in the context of the competences of our Ministry and in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment in particular. From the start, we have been working methodically, beyond the debate we are having today, to promote sustainable agriculture - we have said so in this Chamber before - and to have a environmentally friendly and, of course, a rewarding policy for the farmer. Desolation as a form of earth degradation, maximizes climate change, substantially reducing soil’s ability to maintain carbon and worsen over time by most droughts, rising temperatures and less rainfall. Fighting the phenomenon of desertification in the context of our country's participation in the International Convention for the Combating of Aperism, unfortunately - you know this - since 2001, when the first action plan against desertification was drawn up, which you referred to, has not actually been supported by fragments in some periods. We are also determined to change this picture with your own encouragement and cooperation. In the light of the revision of this convention, therefore, it is our top priority that our country should participate effectively and actively in the comings of the International Convention. To this end, and in response to your questions, we are moving towards a series of actions. It is the first thing, as you have said, that the restructuring of the National Committee for the Combating Desertification, which, in reply to the second one, will update the national action plan, which you have referred to, in order now to reflect the current situation, the current situation, the current situation and the extent of the phenomenon because it has been a long time ago. This committee will, as will then, be responsible for the subject, and the results of this national action plan will, of course, be taken into account in the planning of the new CAP strategy. Secondly, we are resolving the question of the payment of our country's assistance to the General Secretariat of the abovementioned Convention. This issue - you know, because you have handled it - years old and remained virtually inactive in the past decade after the transfer of the Directorate-General for Forestry, which was responsible for paying the aid from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to the Ministry of the Environment. That's where the ball's been a little lost these years. We're reinstated. We have therefore found the resources and we are preparing the ministerial decision on the regular payment of the assistance from our Ministry's budget. Thirdly, we are moving dynamically to find additional financial instruments through, for example, the European Union's Horizon 2020 research programme, as well as the LIFE instrument for the environment, which we are trying to use - already now that we are talking about - with the Ministry of the Environment, guaranteeing European funding of around EUR 14 million. On Horizon 2020, I held a meeting last week with Vice-President of the European Union, Mr Margariti-Wilds, with which we discussed the burning issue of desertification and the tools that will enable us to deal effectively. We started a good partnership with him. He was very willing to help us in this, and in many cases this is due to your encouragement and your impact through your question. Fourthly, we have incorporated into the Digital Transformation Book 2020-2025, in our Ministry's digital platform for collecting and managing territorial data, which will be used as a tool for assessing the degree of desertification. Fifthly, we have speeded up and started working together, as I said before, with the relevant Ministry of the Environment, so that we can have joint planning for the other two international conventions on environmental protection, namely biodiversity and climate change, but also with non-governmental organisations fighting and fighting for these issues. I see our colleague, who is very active in these directions. Sixth, we are also working with the ELGA to reorder the Insurance Regulation in order to take account of climate change conditions and to compensate for the damage caused by it. You know that very well. It is also a very sensitive and difficult issue. We are in cooperation with Mr Lykurenzo and the ELGA services, to see how we deal with it. Finally, we are integrating a campaign to inform our farmers, but also our fellow citizens as part of the consultation of the new CAP, which we will only begin as soon as the conditions of the krone allow. As is clear from all of this, the New Democracy Government raises this burning issue on its agenda, which you have raised, climate change and desertification, and we want to do, with all the parties, a coordinated effort to tackle the phenomenon. Your concern and the work you have done in the past, but also the anxiety you are expressing today, is very useful to us. We want your cooperation, your proposals, so that we can find the best ways, particularly to raise awareness among our fellow citizens, our farmers, and find funds and solutions to deal with this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Minister. I think, Mr. Red, you got your answers. You have three minutes for your dentistry and I don't think you're getting away from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u254	I am certainly not going to get away, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding. I am pleased, Minister, that you will re-establish the national anti-pollution committee. You know - I did a small golap to farmers - with the word'simplification', one thinks that the villages will be abandoned. However, this will actually be the case. This is the consequence of desertification in the scientific sense. The land will not be cultivated because of a lack of fertility, so the villages will also be abandoned. That is why we must act quickly. I'm glad you mean you should consult specialist scientists. I just want to stress that a basic tool to combat this phenomenon is the territorial map. I would like to point out to you that they had become known on 19-9-2019 at the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time, the work and the conclusion of two working parties proposing a single territorial map. These working groups were set up in 2016 and each other at the beginning of 2019. I call on you to deal with it, and I think you're going to deal with it. By the way, because you spoke of a change of regulation, yes, farmers want to change the ELGA regulation - privatisation does not want - and it must be done. There are products which we are talking about today, Minister, have suffered irreparable and continuous damage. For example, almonds. It is unbelievable that the damage that has been suffered by trees is unbelievable. Several of them are not covered by the Regulation. Therefore, the ELGA Regulation should go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Red. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, if we are to be clear, we must not misinterpret what you have said and I am saying here too, we are not talking about privatization of ELGA, Mr Kokalis. That is not the case, that is not the case. Instead, our agony, our effort and the effort of the ELGA leadership are with the workers, who too are struggling, to find the way to shape the new conditions. The New Democracy Government has already put into the budget, as you know, money for the first time, which has worked positively, so that compensation is quickly given for the first time as a whole this year. The household that has been made in ELGA is extremely important and in this direction we will move. It is also worth congratulating the ELGA officials, as well as his leadership. Inside this effort, we include the effort to reorganise it, to deal with modern problems. This, as you can see, is a difficult project, because, in order to be able to give more cover, you obviously need more and more resources. So, on this course we are and it's useful to help everyone. As far as the land maps and the findings are concerned, I will see them. We can work together in this direction, to see how you understand it. Overall, in order to close this issue, I think that your position and your anxiety are mainly useful because it gives us the opportunity for this debate to get away from some of the immediate issues that concern us and discuss the big context, the broader context of how we imagine, we see and shape the conditions for agricultural production in the country. Most of all, how we shape the tools we have - thankfully! - The Fund for Recovery on the one hand and the Rural Development Programme on the other for the next seven years, so that we can deal with these problems as a whole and for the benefit of farmers and, on the other hand, the Greek citizens and the Greek economy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good day to both of you! Let's go to the next, in the first with number 578/19-3-2021, a timely question from the New Democracy MP, Christina Alexopoulou, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Strengthening financing of the Armed Forces - National Defence Fund - Defence Investment and Development". Mrs Alexopoulou, good evening, good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u258	Good evening, thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, the question I have put to you concerns a request which many of our fellow citizens consider to be self-evident, namely the establishment and promotion by the state of a way of direct participation of the people in the expenditure on defence of the country, a special fund of national defence. In other words, indirect participation by the taxes we all pay, it is very important to allow any Greek or Greek who wishes to help directly with these expenditure - let us say - a palliative defence. Before, however, I am referring in particular to this issue, I would like to put forward a few more general considerations, which I consider to be essential today. Personally, I have always been interested in the big national issues, such as demographic, migration and country security. As a politician, I think that these issues should concern us, as a matter of priority, even when daily life imposes other priorities, such as the economy. As a citizen, I belong to the vast majority of Greeks who, without being experts in foreign policy or defence matters, understand that our nation is diluted to make great sacrifices to protect it from the external survivors, from the dangers that, unfortunately, exist in our days, as proved to be paradoxically about a year ago, from the same risks that cause conflicts and border changes in our region every century of recorded history now. No reasonable man wants the conflict, but there are two kinds of pacifists: those who simply wish peace and those who work hard to preserve it. Because, therefore, the only realistic way to ensure peace is sufficient defence preparation, I am really very proud that, as a member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, I support the effort that you are making to restore the deterrent power of the Armed Forces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to congratulate you in particular, because in addition to the work you are obviously doing, in the discussions I have with defence experts, the ruling conclusion is that you are aware of the subject matter and that you are giving solutions to chronic issues. Of course, it is not just knowledge, but the political will is also required to achieve results. As the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis did, therefore, regenerating the Armed Forces from 1990 to 1993, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has implemented an extensive programme to strengthen national defence capacity both in the field of personnel and in the field of armaments since 2019. Together with the excellent work that is being done in the field of foreign policy, we internationally highlight Greece as a leading factor in stability and peace in the Eastern Mediterranean. Obviously all this effort requires resources that, as experts say, can amount to tens of billions of euros over the next ten to twenty years if we want to restore the country's defensive power to the levels of pre-economic crisis. It is our self-evident obligation as a state, along with our gratitude, to provide the best possible solutions in the level of armaments to the children of the Greek people, to the men and women of the Armed Forces, to those who put their lives in the service of our own security. With these recruits from society and from the experts of the area, I have asked you the question of setting up a National Defence Fund, proposing its consistent funding from sources, such as, firstly, the ongoing economic campaign to attract donations from Greeks and Greeks worldwide, probably with emphasis on specific dates symbolically linked to the Armed Forces, such as the 25th of March, the 28th of October, the 21st of August, the 21st of November, donations not only of great importance, such as those made by Achaios national benefactor James Tsunis, but of any height, energizing the ungrateful Hellenism. Secondly, by exploiting the existing taxation, such as part of the VAT or the fixed assets that we all pay to specific public bodies and, thirdly, by revenue from the productive sector through the development of a national defence industry with an emphasis on modern technologies for military and political purposes. So, Minister, is it your priorities to establish a special National Defence Fund in the proposed or other operating framework? And if so, what timelines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos will answer. Minister, good evening, and good week. You have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I could only answer one yes to your very interesting question, but I imagine that would not cover you. So let me seize the opportunity and say two, three words to the very interesting things you are addressing. The first is that, as I pointed out today to my counterpart Minister for Defence of the People's Republic of China, who visited us in the Pentagon, the effort to rearm or improve the armed systems of our Armed Forces is not because our motive is that we seek conflict or war, but rather because our incentive is to seek to ensure peace and stability in the wider region. This is ensured through the intensification of the deterrent power of the Armed Forces. The deterrent power of the Armed Forces is ensured by their reinforcement in means and personnel. Therefore, let me say that it is my pleasure to answer questions of this kind that show the sensitivity of your own personal, but also the wider real interest of fellow Members for the Armed Forces and to ensure that they are further strengthened. The fact is that either because of the scale of this period of tension with the neighbour, or because the Ministry of National Defence has conducted a series of targeted interventions in the media, there has been a climate of awareness of the national conscience, I would say, on the issues of the Armed Forces. Several prominent Greeks have already gone in this direction. I cannot make a particular reference to Mr James Tsunini and to Mr Pano Laskaridis. Although they probably would not want to do so, I cannot mention their very important donations, which have also been given a lot of visibility. But they weren't the only ones. Many have tried, especially last year, to strengthen in every way the Armed Forces. I mean small and large companies. I was now reminding myself of the 'COSMOTE' group, which served with material equipment to strengthen the Mississippi Army in supervisory instruments - not weapons systems - the Church of Greece which did the same and private, but unknown citizens, who would say that it was in the same mood to strengthen the Armed Forces. I cannot remember the constant effort to fuel the fleet, the warships in any bay that had been anchored by ordinary islanders during the recent crisis. We thank them all on behalf of the political leadership of the Armed Forces. Your good words do not only reflect on me personally, but on the whole political and military leadership of the Armed Forces. The question is: Could this expression of selfless offering to the country operate under a more organised institutional framework? Is that there? How could it be improved?’ [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will need about two more minutes, Mr President, because I think that it is enough to say on that. I'll try to be as brief as I can. Let me start by answering public donations. These are regulated by the provisions of Law 4182/2013, entitled ‘Code of Common Benefits, Comparative Heritages and Other Provisions’. In the light of the law, it attempted to introduce a systemic uniform legal framework for public-private property, in this case also donations, by abolishing the continuity of the existing provisions up to that point. In this context, therefore, the following possibilities are provided: First, the donor can donate money in order to meet the needs of the Armed Forces, which will then be determined by the General Staff in accordance with their operational needs and requirements. Secondly, the donor may be able to repay directly the economic operator, i.e. the supplier or supplier of the service or contractor chosen as the most suitable for the purpose of the donation and the donor, on the other hand, receive the subject of the donation from the economic operator. Thirdly, for each donation a decision to accept or dismiss it will be issued by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of National Defence, depending on the type and value of the donation. We have seen these things happen systematically during the Evros crisis about a year ago, with too many donations in different amounts. Fourthly, financial donations acting in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Code of Conduct, following their acceptance to be deposited in the bank accounts of the Military Office and in the legal entities governed by public law, i.e. the National Defence Fund, the National Fleet Fund and the Air Defence Fund, according to the will of donors. In addition to the above, also under the provisions of Article 51 of the EC Treaty. 4758/2020 established the establishment and operation of the Electronic Donation Platform, which was established to operate as a Digital Public Service through the Single Digital Portal of Public Administration. The information system of this platform is in a test operation and will soon be operational. This will make it possible to register and make public the actions and operational needs of the State - in this case the Ministry of National Defence - by achieving the modernisation and simplification of the procedure for submitting requests to the State and the legal entities of public law to cover through donations of the alleged needs and actions through its platform. Also, as you know, the current government by the Prime Minister's own mouth has announced its intention to establish a National Defence Fund, as you suggest. This fund will take the form of a special account that will strengthen national defence, while financial assistance will be used targeted in line with the needs of the three branches and the priorities of the General Staff. The announcement had been made since January 2020. In the meantime, of course, the health crisis has changed somewhat, or other critical priorities have been added to assist the tested social strata - which is not very little - from the health and hence the economic crisis. The implementation of the project has been delayed, but it has not been abandoned. With regard to your proposal to use an existing tax section for the benefit of the Armed Forces, it is certainly interesting. This debate cannot, of course, be interpreted as meaning that it is the Ministry of Finance, which is the Ministry of Finance. I believe that this could begin as soon as the budgetary conditions allow it. I would again like to take into account the fact that at this stage, because of the health and economic crisis, the priority at this time is to strengthen a large part of society that has been affected by it. In any case, the Ministry of Finance is helping in practice the Ministry of National Defence having increased by decision of the Prime Minister after submitting our draft budget for the Armed Forces. Finally, the Ministry of National Defence, in cooperation with the Secretariat for Research and Innovation of the Ministry of Development and Investment, takes the relevant steps to promote new defence technology or political or dual use with the support of the domestic defence industry. The aim is to increase the gross national product and reversal of Brain Drain, among other things, to strengthen, of course, the capacity of the Armed Forces. I would like to point out that the Ministry, through the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment, the DGEU, supports the participation of domestic industries in the European financial programmes for research and industrial development, as well as in transnational cooperation programmes. In 2020 we had the happy, I would say, development of the approval of funding from these European research and industrial development programmes in defence for five projects, involving Greek companies from the domestic defence industry. So what you're saying is right. Yes, there is an institutional framework for strengthening national defence through donations. Of course, and it is our intention to create, I would say with the symbolisms that suit it, especially because of the juncture, the National Defence Fund as a special account. I am sure that a lot of people are waiting for this, but perhaps even that this world does not know that there are already accounts in which it would be able to submit its lack of support for national defence, even in these difficult times for the ordinary world's finances. However, given that there is a mood and that the Armed Forces have shown through the political leadership of the Ministry and the military leadership that they are making wise, beneficial and productive use of all these possibilities, I think that there is really a great margin for strengthening the Armed Forces, through this mood and the laxity of the ordinary world that proves in practice that whatever the patriotic feeling of the Greeks in this country will never fail, especially in times of crisis like the one we are in. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I would like to dedicate my dentext to the development strand of defence investments, which, as I said before, can also contribute to strengthening the National Defence Fund, which we are debating today. I therefore believe that it is time that the major defence investments that Greece has to make over time are made much greater use of in the national economy. This can be achieved in cooperation with the research community and the private sector, according to the standards of other advanced states, such as Israel, whose model we can imitate, naturally adapted to our own data. To this end, we need policies that are superior to the so-called 'compensatory benefits', whose participation in the production of national wealth has, unfortunately, been minimal in the past. It may, therefore, be appropriate to set up specific institutions for the development of the national defence industry, with a targeted orientation on modern peak technologies. For example, the creation of a permanent Secretary-General for Defence Industry and a specialised Scientific Council. This design must include the already decided small or large industrial work, such as the production of the new national rifle, which we have recently decided and will also be entrusted to the Egyptian factory of "Greek Defence Systems". More generally, the practical encouragement of the development of products and technology applications which can be used for both military and political purposes will create many well-paid jobs, strengthening the government's already implemented policy for reversal of Brain Drain. It can also contribute catalysts to saving resources, attracting investment and the emergence of Greece in an international innovation production centre, which we should have achieved as a country for decades now, given the quality of human resources and the appeal that distinguishes us as a people in the absorption and exploitation of new technologies. I would therefore like to conclude by asking you whether there are specific initiatives or policies that you intend to implement in the near future in the direction beyond the large armaments programmes, such as the upgrading of F-16 or new freshmen or even along with these programmes. I say this because we are interested in the greatest possible spreading of capital into smaller projects, such as Greek-made drones or software, even reaching start-ups level. Are you planning such initiatives in this area, and if so, what timetables? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Although I think the Minister answered everything, we'll give him three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u264	I will try, although time is too short, to say everything we have done or plan to do for the development of the country's defence industry, which has its problems. That's enough coming from the past. I'd say everything comes from the past. However, there is no doubt about us that the development of an extroverted, productive and competitive defence industry does not have a positive impact only on meeting the needs of the country's Armed Forces, but could also be a very important arm of economic development both locally and at a global, national level. We have been moving in this direction for quite a while now at the Ministry of National Defence. Tomorrow, in fact, under the supervision of the Deputy Minister present here, Mr Stefani, there will still be a meeting of actors from the domestic defence industry with representatives of companies, with representatives of officials, with the representation of the Ministry, in order to seek directions and solutions in this area. As you mentioned the NSAs - and of course you have the local interest reasonably - and on our recent visit to Haints, on separate dates, we told the workers, with whom I had the opportunity to meet by means of a teleconference and to discuss it, that the prospects opened in the context of the more general question of the rearming of the Armed Forces, through the development programme of the so-called 'national loaf', I think they will also be able to mark a new day to the very best for NSAs. Cooperation with EBO and the company to be selected - we are in the final phase for the production of the new national rifle - I believe that it will develop in the year so that, from time to year, we can develop and produce our own national rifle. I think that there is the key to development and progress, if you like, in terms of prosperity, and this element of the defence industry, which has experienced several difficulties in the past, but now sees its most prosperous perspective. This also applies to other companies in the domestic defence industry. Of course there must be a link between these and the area of research and innovation in the defence industry, a link between the market and the needs of the staff under the final - if you like - the guidance of the Ministry of National Defence. We are working very hard and intensively in this direction to solve problems. The final question is the domestic defence industry, not only to cover - as I have said - the needs of the Armed Forces, which are many and complex, especially in the light of the new technologies of military operations, but also the extroversion that could be developed, to become a competitive part of the global defence market. Of course, Israel is the ultimate example, since, of course, the budgets of Israel for defence are much larger than the corresponding Greeks. But I think this is where our country would have a great deal to learn and be exemplified. As I said to you, the motive for all of this is not the enterprising mood, but the willingness to strengthen the deterrent power of your country's Armed Forces and through it - if you like - the sense of security for all Greeks and the wider sense of security in the region. As far as the issue of donations is concerned, I would remind you that at difficult times in our history the Armed Forces have relied on the kind and unselfish offer of the great benefactors. Thus George Averov financed - with a huge amount of money for the time - the purchase of the legendary "Averov" that made the difference by dominating the Aegean during that period, when Greece actually expanded, multiplying its territories and its sovereignty in the wider region. I need to mention others. We have long launched a huge effort, based on an organised, costly, costly, prioritised and approved by the Prime Minister for the strengthening of our Armed Forces. A number of steps have already been taken. I don't think there's any time here to mention it. However, as I have said to you, this part also fits in with the strengthening of research and innovation and through the upgrading of the domestic defence industry. As far as the funds of the Armed Forces are concerned, the existing institutional framework enables their funds to be strengthened by donations, as I have told you. There is provision for 1% of the budget for the Ministry of Defence Research and Technology equipment programme, which links the parts developed between them. At these moments in our homeland, I think that if we are better organized at all levels, which have to do with the strengthening of the Armed Forces, this work already seems to bear fruit, that would only be beneficial for our national effort and for our national law. Because all this goes through and is guaranteed through powerful and dissuasive Armed Forces, and I am truly glad that you, too, raise this issue, which is the anguish of all of us in here and not just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, too. We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 594/22-3-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Heidari: Direct release of forest land in the camps of Heidari and concession of 66 acres and of Block 15 in the municipality". Mr Arseni, good evening, and good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is the second time we have been discussing this. It has been a long time, but unfortunately we have not had enough developments. We had some, but not enough. I am referring to Bloc 15, a place of witnessing our fellow citizens who participated in the National Resistance. It is an area that has not yet been released and has not been attributed to the citizens. I refer to the sixty-six acres that the Municipality of Haidario is persistently asking for the construction of a green area, as well as the large forest area, which remains unused in the camps of Haidari. It is obvious and we do not need to argue about the reason why Blak 15, an area so important for the National Resistance, should be accessible to the citizens, as well as the issue of the sixty-six acres in an area that needs them for green areas. There seems to be some kind of hindrance to proceed with the process from the Ministry's services. There are some arguments for some corrections to be made to the register and so on. These things cannot in our time block a self-evident concession. I would ask you here to commit and intervene to stop this humiliation by the services of the Ministry and to move this forward, which was not only a request from Prime Minister Mitsotakis, when he was himself a Member of the region, with a timely question, not only was Mr Karamanlis' commitment twice in the region, but it is also a self-evident request from local society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The Minister of National Defence, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, will answer, who has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u268	With you, I know I have plenty more time. Thank you for your generosity, Mr President, but I will try to be brief. My dear colleague, we have indeed been here before. We discussed the question of your question on December 12, 2019. Since then, none of the essential parameters we have mentioned have changed, but action has been taken, particularly in consultation with the municipality concerned. And I'll explain it. For the time being, I repeat, the Camp Karaiskaki I and 2 in Haidari Attica is the property of the National Defence Fund. It is an active camp and therefore, operationally necessary camp, as various military units and services of the Missiras Army are enlisted in it. You know, Mr Colleague, when we are dealing with an active camp, our potential to do any kind of concession is limited. Once again, I tell you that it cannot be released from the camp, which bears this designation by the relevant military General Staff. This is the regime and there is nothing else to do with it. The camp is active, so it is necessary in the Armed Forces and around this reality, everything else is rotating. Now, regarding the Block 15 building within Camp Karaiskakis I, as well as the area surrounding it: None of the two are operationally necessary. Therefore, they may be granted, in accordance with existing legislation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in order to ensure the interests of the National Defence Fund and, by extension, of the military service and on the other hand, subject to acceptance and implementation with care and expense of the municipality concerned, the Municipality of Heidari, of the work undertaken by the General Staff. In other words, we also ask the municipality to do things in order to bring this benefit to fruition of the concession of this particular area. More comparatively, it has been requested: First, the creation of independent entry into the fence of the Karaiskaki camp and modulation of access to the space with the opening of the road from the Block 15 building to the west to the outer fence of the Karaiskaki camp, fenced on either side along it. The Ministry allows all access to the Block 15 building, also recognising all those symbolic that make it a destination for people who have nothing to do with the Armed Forces. It does not prohibit access, but calls for certain security conditions, so that this access is correct. Secondly, construction of gates on the new road to crossing military vehicles to the firefields. The use of shot fields by sniper clubs as elements of the local society proves even more that the Ministry of National Defence and the General Staff recognize that the local society must have access, through the camp. Third, car parking configuration to meet visitors' needs. Fourth, construction of illuminated fence perimeter of the building to separate it from the rest of the camp, as well as construction of the other necessary infrastructure, i.e. extension of electronic security systems, etc. to increase the level of safety. As you can see, a piece of land within an active camp, in order to be accessible to other than military personnel, also requires the creation of security requirements. I think that's very reasonable and next. Sixth, study and execution of the necessary repair and maintenance work, as well as operating costs of the licensed area. Seven, take the necessary security and fire safety measures. And eighth, renounce any responsibility of the military service vis-à-vis a third party when using the access route to the Block 15 building and the licensed space within and around it. For all the above mentioned, a study is expected from the Municipality of Haidari, as agreed at a meeting which was held very recently on -2/2021, at the fund's headquarters between the ETHA, i.e. the National Defence Fund and the Municipality of Haidari. In conclusion, areas within which active military facilities exist cannot be legally included in any planning of local authorities for the organisation of green areas, etc. As regards, however, the sixty-six acres requested by the municipality of Haidario to be granted to it, the ETH is working closely with the municipality in order to investigate how this request is met, within the current legal framework, first to settle the existing outstandingities of the municipality, which relate, inter alia, to some arbitrary actions, i.e. exceeding the limits of the areas already allocated to it and, secondly, to correcting the incorrect entries in the register as regards the ownership of land of the Karaiskakis camp, which are owned by the municipality of Chaidarios as its property. We are in good faith in order to meet this request, despite the concerns I have just mentioned. To date, the municipality's response to this is expected, as well as its actions to resolve the above-mentioned outstandingities, either in relation to the violation by the municipality of certain areas by the erroneous statement of them in the Land Register, but also by the preparation of all the relevant studies and the actions they entail, in order to improve the security conditions, which will allow access to Bloc 15 on the one hand, on the other, to the section actually granted by the ETH. So the actions have gone a little further. The municipality has been involved in a series of consultations with the National Defence Fund and we expect some progress to be made shortly on all of this. The rest I'll develop in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u269	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is a little difficult for me to understand how you are going to say that there is a violation by the Municipality of Haidari of some area in the Land register regarding the Heidari camps and that correcting this infringement is the precondition for any other debate on the sixty-six acres of green. I really don't understand. We're not talking about two rival groups here. As far as I understand it, the opinion of the HR is that there is a trespass. Even if we accept it, it involves a minimum area. Getting in as a prerequisite for the municipality to give up its claims for this area to discuss the TECHA if it will give him the sixty-six acres of green, I think it really belongs to other times and other attitudes. There seems to be an obsession on the part of the people who manage this issue at the ETHC and I think it is good to look at it, so that you are not exposed for no reason. Now, first of all, let me make it clear that we in this question are not asking you to quit these camps and close the camps. We ask you, of course, and I ask you personally not to be active camps and snipers within the urban fabric. That's clear. The fact that there has to be a timetable where all this will be removed outside the urban fabric is obvious. But we are not asking you at this moment with this question to do that. I personally ask you to set a timetable that these camps will be moved to more secure for citizens - for many reasons safe, as you can see - areas. So we're asking for the spaces that aren't actually used. We ask for the forest area, which is not used in practice. We ask that the sixty-six acres, of course, finally proceed with the time-limit for Bloc 15, to become this Museum of National Resistance, to be attributed to the local society. To make this place - if you like, it honors your Ministry - a finally part of the great ancient Greek walk, the historical and natural walk of the narrow distances of the Daphne, which may combine the Block 15 with the Garden of Diomedes, with the Monastery of Daphne, with the parts of the Remnant Road, as well as the temple of Aphrodite to Lake Koumoundouros, also a matter that we have recently discussed. Thank you very much, and I really hope that this problem will be solved, because I think there is an obsession there. It is not a substance, but it exposes and delays you a concession, which can greatly benefit society and the relationship between society and the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u272	I will be very brief, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I think we agree on some points. We both understand that there is an institutional framework for the granting of land by the Armed Forces. We as custodians, if you want, of protecting their property, of course we must observe it. I'm sure you agree with that, too. The second is that whether there is or does not exist a breach of this extent by the municipality, the TETA nevertheless discusses the granting of good faith and simply sets certain conditions under which this concession could take place. In fact, the Ministry through TTHA has long stood arrogant, supporting the local society of Heidari. Recently, it has satisfied the municipality's requests for the concession of parts from the "Karaiskaki I" camp, which the GES first released operationally and gradually, have released the following: about twenty-nine acres in 1984 were awarded to the General Secretariat of Sports of the Ministry of Presidency for the construction of sports facilities. Another thirteen acres in 1995 at the Ministry of Finance for the opening of the road. Another fifty acres in 1997 at the Ministry of Finance in favour of the Athens Regulatory Plan and Environmental Protection for the creation of an area of cultural activities, green and recreational. Another fifty acres in 2005 again at the Ministry of Finance in favour of the Municipality of Haidari for the creation of a Park of Historical Memory and Modern Environmental Creation. Therefore, I think it is obvious that, for areas of non-operational need, the Ministry is ready to cooperate with the municipality and other bodies to exploit them, for the benefit of local society, of course. In any case, we expect the municipality's proposals after the meeting on 9 February to take the initiative of the municipality to see in which areas we can agree, but always within the institutional limits. The intention is to assist local society with some concessions, but not in breach of the institutional framework. ‘About the fact that both Block 15 is accessible, but in order to create the road will pass through the rest of the active camp, there will have to be some security requirements that need to be agreed and implemented at the initiative and at the expense of the municipality and that there is access to the field of shooting in snipers, to elements of local society that come and make use - a lot of people really - of the vulnerabilities of the field, all of this shows that there is an active and beneficial, if you like, to the municipality related to the local society. I think that there is every possibility of this being extended, but I always repeat, and I close it, within this existing institutional framework. I think that is a condition which we all accept should be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u273	And I thank you both. Have a good time. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-29-S1-commons.u274	The sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 30 March 2021, at 09: 00, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion and decision on the motion No 1782/09-03-2021 tabled by thirty (30) Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for a preliminary examination, pursuant to Rule 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 3 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and then Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information until 09-07-2019, Nicholas Pappas, in the performance of his duties: 1) Donation of a political official against and continuously (No. 159 PP) and 2) Plenipotentiary of a staff member (PK 259) in accordance with the proposal, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
