ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to announce to the House that the Ministers for Development and Investment, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, State, as well as the Deputy Ministers for Development and Investment, Economic and Home Affairs, have today tabled a draft law: 'Modernisation, simplification and reform of the regulatory framework for public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions for development and infrastructure'. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Wednesday 24 February 2021 A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 457/22-2-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Klons Gregoriadis to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Request for residents of Lesvos to host refugees and immigrants". We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Minister of State: "National Accessibility Authority, National Commission for Human Rights and National Committee for Bioethics and Technicians". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 February 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs and special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, as well as two circles of speakers, should be involved. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one from the Change Movement, the Communist Party, the Greek Solution and the Mera25. Two speakers are proposed by teleconferencing service. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the same ratio. The names of the speakers have already been designated by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. We are starting with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, for 15 minutes. Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr General, ladies and gentlemen, the revelations and the investigation of justice about morbid behaviours and situations make it more imperative than ever to strengthen independent institutions which have as their scope the protection of human rights and human dignity. There is no one in this Chamber, regardless of its origin, who does not agree to this direction, and even when our obscene and disobedient behaviours concern everyone, each individual and all as a society. They are convicted and are subject to judicial investigation and enforcement. Politically and partyly working on these behaviours does not contribute anything positive. Beyond the humble springs accompanying them, it also leads to disorientation from the real problem, which is the absolute collapsation of these behaviours, the awareness and encouragement of society to isolate and reveal these behaviours that affect the human entity and dignity. At this juncture everyone can see how important the government's legislative initiative that is currently based and discussed in real facts and facts is. It is being discussed today in order to vote and to be a law of the state. This bill is inextricably linked to the individual and democratic rights of citizens. It contains three leading institutional interventions with the creation of independent authorities with wide responsibilities, but also potential for a substantial contribution to strengthening and protecting individual and democratic rights. It is a bill that reflects the sensitivity, but also the personal interest of the Prime Minister in individual rights, democratic rights, in a society of equal opportunities. The establishment of the National Accessibility Authority to ensure the rights of persons with disabilities is a commitment by the Government to act. We have heard Mr Gerapetti, but also the documentation provided by these three pillars of the bill. I think that the questions have been resolved in committee too, but above all with our meeting with the bodies. Because, as colleagues have pointed out, I also did so in the debate in committee, the index of social sensitivity but also of a civilised state is shown by the way in which it tackles the issue of the accessibility of people with disabilities. The objective set out and having national characteristics is to improve the accessibility index for disabled persons in all expressions of human activity. The Government of New Democracy made the beginning. And he made the beginning by shaping the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities based on six pillars, with thirty specific objectives. This plan is the roadmap for the rights of persons with disabilities, the implementation and implementation that the National Accessibility Authority will have and will be able to coordinate. It is, of course, aimed at improving the well-being of citizens. The National Accessibility Authority acquires extended responsibilities. It shall be composed of the Board of its composition. We talked about it. We heard the opposition. However, this national authority will be the council which will have the advisory status of the State in all matters relating to the accessibility of disabled persons and their rights. Its responsibility is very important and moves in different directions. The first is to monitor compliance with Community and national legislation for the accessibility of these people. The second aspect is the submission of proposals to update the institutional framework, but also the implementation of implemented measures and policies to improve accessibility, in the context of the National Action Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which has already been announced. In addition, to raise awareness and inform the public about accessibility issues. And we want to make it clear that, in addition to adapting national legislation to a European level, it also adopts basic principles of the United Nations principles. The National Accessibility Authority is a single national coordination centre that will monitor and monitor all issues related to accessibility and safeguarding the rights of disabled persons. It will work with university institutions, with research bodies, and especially with research people, teaching, but also with people associated with such issues, who have already opened roads in order to open up and implement policies for accessibility of our fellow people. It will consist of eleven members with a four-year term of office, six of whom will be highly qualified scientists. Of these three will be disabled people, while there will still be a member proposed by the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons. Through the actions of the National Accessibility Authority, it will be possible to train undergraduate and postgraduate students and students, as well as young scientists, who will be able to assist the work of the authority. At the same time, the authority will draw up and make public on an annual basis a report on the progress of indicators and actions linked to the strengthening of accessibility of disabled people. Second, major institutional reform related to the bill is the intervention that is being attempted by this draft law on changing the institutional framework governing the National Committee on Human Rights, which now acquires administrative and financial autonomy. It is an important reform that is done as ever as important and timely as ever. Like the National Accessibility Authority, the National Commission for Human Rights will be directly subject to the Prime Minister, which shows the importance and scope of this institutional intervention. I have been stressing since the beginning for this institutional framework that important innovation is the fact that for the first time human rights are linked to the protection of the natural environment. We all know the sensitivity of the citizens, of several non-governmental organisations, and of the government that proves it. We have also heard the bodies point to this very important parameter, which was needed by the country, but also by the citizen who lives in it. At the same time, the responsibilities of the National Committee on Human Rights are further widened, since this institutional change includes both the involvement of and the investigation of all human rights issues which may be brought to the attention of the committee either by the Government or by the National Representation or by civil society. We have heard the institutions point to the need for citizens to express themselves. That's the possibility of giving this bill. To create and propose proposals that improve the legal status and institutional framework for the protection of human rights. To maintain and control a reliable system for recording racist behaviour, discrimination and violation of rights. The National Committee on Human Rights will be associated with the Special Parliamentary Committee on Institutions and Transparency and will draw up an annual report on the evaluation of policies developed to protect human rights. So society will be inextricably linked to the National Representation and government policy and therefore there will be an interaction and reverse course from the bottom and vice versa. This is also the case with another provision since the committee will operate in five departments. First, the Department of Civil and Political Rights. Secondly, the Social, Economic and Cultural Rights Department. Thirdly, the application of human rights to foreigners and fourthly the promotion of human rights. It is also very important for the international cooperation and communication that the committee will have. You understand, therefore, that this global community will apply to local society and vice versa and that there will be interaction with these needs of individual rights, as expressed in every society, every micro-society, on the planet as a whole. It will be linked to all ministries in order to monitor the implementation of human rights policies. It is a very important parameter expressed by colleagues from other parties, but also by representatives of the bodies that we had the idea of discussing with them in the committee responsible. It will be guaranteed financial self-sufficiency - an important aspect - with its grant from the state budget and its financing from other sources and its participation in national European co-financed research programmes or other programmes. So it also shows the scope of the self-sufficiency of the economic situation and the possibility of applying the policies it proposes to the Government, but also of having an activity throughout the horizontal and vertical range of society's activities. At the same time, it acquires administrative autonomy with the establishment of fifteen organic positions of scientific and administrative staff and the structure of its operation in two establishments: the Scientific Organisation Unit and the Administrative and Economic Organisation Unit, which will link the citizens' real need to this philosophy of the legislator, but also the need for the people who need to be expressed through the opportunity offered by the committee to cooperate with them. The third institutional intervention, ladies and gentlemen, is the development of the National Commission set up by Law 2667/1998 at the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology. The artificial intelligence, robotics, genetics, biotechnology and all technological developments raise issues of a moral nature with regard to the compatibility of certain technologies and, in particular, some technological developments with human and individual rights. The committee's aim is to formulate proposals and policies to address the risks and distortions that arise, as well as proposals to adapt national legislation to international and Community law on matters relating to bioethics and technology. It will consist of eleven scientists of unknown prestige and can form partnerships with universities and research institutions. We have heard typically the need arising from the representative of the technological and research institutions, which for the first time provides for this draft law. It will also draw up an annual report which will be discussed at a joint meeting of the Special Standing Committee on Research and Technology and the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights in Parliament. It's something very important. We understand that the production of policy by the committees concerned by linking the submission of the proposals by this committee essentially shows the way to horizontal and vertical interconnection of these needs resulting from the issues that will also have an explosion in the next period since technology is moving forward and the moral code needs to be consistent with evolution. Ladies and gentlemen, the content and targeting of this bill require a broad and cross-party consensus. The recent developments and the particular circumstances created by the pandemic restrictive measures make it imperative to re-introduce and update the human and individual rights framework. No attempts have been made and we have seen that efforts have been made from the past. But it is true and the needs arise from the need to update and modernise the institutional framework. It is therefore important to discuss with open democratic procedures an open and democratic society that requires respect for and protection of the rights of all its members, the creation and functioning of independent principles that will act as coordinators, but also the guarantors of this effort. In my report, it goes without saying that the New Democracy is voting for the bill and I also call on colleagues to vote in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. The speech is given by the general rapporteur for Officerial Response, SYRIZA, Mr. Theanos Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill concerns three national authorities - legal committees at the same time as the rights of prisoners are being violated and the life of one of them, Dimitris Koufantina, hangs on a thread. We can't let Kufontina die. We are now asking the government to implement and respect the laws of the country and to demonstrate that the Hellenic Republic is the rule of law within the European legal framework and will function so as to prove that it is not avenged, feared, indifferent to each other's life and death. These days we have also lived through the total failure of the Final State that was buried under the snow of a ten-day proclaimed non-existent preparedness, while experiencing a huge issue of moral, political, cultural and the Linguid case, where the top of the Greek building, Prime Minister and Minister, declared deceived by the man who appointed after having declared a competitive process and for three weeks through their silence, marks a pragmatic cover. The National Accessibility Authority with today's bill is founded on the rights of the disabled and the Prime Minister. In the government's consistent view, it establishes another so-called independent authority with the Prime Minister, who appoints six of its eleven members. It is a principle of an advisory nature which is limited in scope without any possibility of coordination and control or commitment of the State mechanism, which pursues policies on disability almost all of its Ministries. In this way, not only does the government administratively upgrade disability issues, but it reduces them. Administrative upgraded SYRIZA's emblematic L.4488/2017, which introduced into national law the application of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disabled and first established a coordinating mechanism within the Government at the highest level of Minister instead of the Prime Minister, so that there is horizontal supervision of disability issues. It is you, Mr Gerapetiti, that the coordination mechanism under the law with the central reference point of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Justice, which you have not designated until now. This flagship law which first established the Greek sign language and the writing of Braille as the official languages of the state and the obligation of each Ministry, municipality, region to have points of reference for disability issues, established equal access to the television product and the Greek state's obligation to register for the next time, in 2021, for the first time, the disability and all the consequences created. These powerful administrative and starting points we have delivered you. What are you doing? Instead of proposing an administrative and political upgrade you add another principle to the thirty that already exist. In other words, the state takes the responsibility, legislation, implementation and control of policy and refers it to limited liability by consultative and advisory bodies under the Prime Minister. This is the strategy of neoliberalism, to cut off public, political, democratic, parliamentary and legislative control from the core of the state and transfer it to hybrid bodies outside democratic control. In fact, we are talking about a huge administrative deterioration in the issues of disability. Minister, we're going back. What would be the upgrade? A strategic and political upgrade on disability issues would obviously require at least a State Ministry for Disability issues, as there are in many European countries, England, France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Finland, etc. and as suggested by Alexis Tsipras a few days ago, presenting SYRIZA's program - Progressive Alliance for Disability. In Greece there is a tradition very strong. We have horizontal policies, such as the issue of disability, which concerns almost all ministries, namely education, health, culture, digital access, transport, sport and so on, and we do not have administrative tools, strong administrative structures to implement and control them. This is what we propose and commit ourselves in the light of the new progressive government that will come with good. It is a proposal that embodies this administrative outdated system with a democratic injection in the field of rights and equality with a higher level of authority, but also in education, namely the creation of a culture of equality and accessibility. We do not consent to this deterioration much longer because the government did absolutely nothing during the pandemic on the health and financial support of the disabled. It did not prioritise vaccinations, reduced disability expenditure in 2020 by 96 million compared to 2019 and by 88 million in 2021 compared to 2019. He rejected all the proposals of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance that were made through President Alexis Tsipras for the exceptional grant of allowances without consideration by CEPA closed for a long period of time, for a double allowance at Christmas, for a performance for all disabled persons in the emergency income. We consider it hypocritical that Mr Mitsotakis' late interest in disability is the one who, as Minister of Administrative Reform, in 2014, abolished the accessibility offices that had been set up in public services to monitor the actions of disabled people's access to the natural and structured environment. For a year and a half now, he has done nothing about the same subject, about accessibility in the structured environment after you have allowed the relevant law to expire on 31-12-2020 without taking advantage of anything in this one and a half years of governance. So how can we trust Mr Mitsotakis that he will listen to the National Accessibility Authority when he has not asked for a single apology from the disabled for all of this? You will tell me it was a Memorandum of Understanding that the government had to lay off, abolish civil servants. That's right. Did he have to do that for the disabled? On the contrary, we rejected the requirements of lenders in 2015-2019 for the implementation of functionality for the evaluation of disabled. We have proposed, accepted and implemented the electronic disability file in three major cities, Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, which releases the disabled from enormous suffering because they all become digital in the CEPOL - and from the forty-eight - and can be connected - and that is what we are proposing - to the amount of the disabled to grant benefits, benefits, services and free access to the natural, structured and digital environment. What did you do? You froze the pan-Hellenic extension of the Electronic Folder. Our disability programme, announced ten days ago by the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, is the opposing plan in the neoliberal New Democracy, which considers that the problems of the disabled are treated in two ways. Firstly, by giving everyone equal opportunities. Secondly, by increasing the employability of people with serious disabilities in a country with 17% unemployment and 90% unemployment for the disabled. With this logic, the New Democracy is exacerbating inequalities because it deliberately ignores the fact that the disabled start from a different starting point - not all of us start from the same point - and creates the basis for the implementation of functionality. In other words, the New Democracy is reintroducing the question of the functionality of both the Pissaridis project and the National Action Plan, with a unique objective: reducing pensions and allowances. So, to make everyone understand, what does that mean? If you're operational to work, you don't go to damage, you don't retire and all the accompanying allowances. This, if applied, will be the charismatic shot in the disability world. We are asking you, here today, to make a commitment that you will not implement it. Disability and full accessibility are now at the forefront of the social inequalities to which our programme aims, because we do not consider the natural disparity, as Mr Mitsotakis said at the IGC. There's a divisive line - the intersection that separates us. The project is based on the principles of the social model, which believes that the institutionalized concepts and practices of the state itself and society are the ones that turn people with harm to disabled people. That is why the state must take measures to remove inequalities against the disabled and ensure them independent and decent living and equal access to all areas of social, economic and political life for the universal inclusion of the disabled and the elderly and their right to self-determination. Because we recognise the high cost of living for the disabled - we recognise that they are high, often three times and three times as high as they are - we consider that allowances, benefits and services should not be offset by labour income, pension etc. We did it as a government for people with mental harm and mental illness. But it must extend to the other serious damage. Independent living requires a staff assistant even on a 24-hour basis. And we must move quickly on to this institutionalisation. For the other proposals, I will return to secondary. For the National Committee on Human Rights, I will say: The Government reappoints the ECHR on the grounds that it wants to turn it into a legal person for better service. In essence, the dissolution of the existing committee, which was recognised as very satisfactory, has the following objectives: Firstly, the change of composition. Second, the removal of members who had been designated since March 2019. Thirdly, the relaxation of its ties with Parliament and with the House's Transparency Committee. Fourthly, the reduction and change of the choice of the representatives of the academic community. Fifthly, the shrinking of representatives of civil society to avoid possible annoying voices. Half of the members of the current composition are being abolished, and the committee will now have twenty-two or twenty-three members from forty-one who have had to date. The President of the House's Committee on Transparency is subjected to a simple link, as is the representatives of Parliament's parties. Remove the representative of the Consumers' Counsellor and the seventeen members of the Committee select the remaining six from the research and academic institutions of Greece and abroad, without specifying their cognitive objects. Thirdly, the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology: here you are renamed an excellent committee with the pretext of adding the technology required by a CSR to this end. The objectives are as follows: Firstly, the release of the Prime Minister, which is appointed by all eleven members, from necessarily selecting specific scientific fields, which are not sufficiently defined. Secondly, the discharge from an extremely qualified committee, which its members are serving specific scientific objects. It is now enough for a balanced representation of positive and humanitarian sciences. So generally! The specialized fields, the specialties and the expertise required are thus abolished. The excellent ones are not sure that if it were the case in the past they would find their own children to choose from the Prime Minister. In addition, both committees and the National Authority, in the knowledge of the Executive State, are the following: By a simple decision of the Minister of Finance, compensation is determined by way of derogation from all the applicable provisions for members and scientific associates. This is why the General Accounting Office of the State cannot define expenditure in its report. Note that the members of the existing... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would just like a minute, Mr President. It should be noted that the members of the existing ADR had compensation of EUR 50 per month. Secondly, two fast scientific partners are being created as to how to choose. In the Committee on Bioethics and Technology with an AACC on both of the others with the provisions of the AACC, but with a hybrid crisis committee, where, by way of derogation, the members of the respective committee will have it. The government has given many samples of its tactics to abolish and reconstitute bodies and bodies that it cannot control. This is also what you have done with the abolition of administrative control bodies and the creation of the fictitiously independent, but in fact completely controlled, National Transparency Authority. You did the same with the leadership of the Competition Committee and the retrospective introduction of the incompatibility of all concepts of administrative ethics. That is what you are now trying to do with the abolition and re-establishment of the two committees, the ECHR and the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology. We do not consent and vote against at first instance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u6	The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Kamine Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill is being discussed at an extremely charged time not only because of the pandemic crisis, which seems to insist despite the constant and recycled lockdown, but also because last week the bad weather Medea passed from the country, leaving behind hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens without power for days, and three of them have glorifiedly lost their lives. Last week, too, reported publicity reports of sexual harassment and abuse in the field of art, which resulted, among other things, in his arrest until the former director of the National Theatre Dimitris Lignade. Both cases show the government's choice to dismiss its responsibilities. Whether he hides behind fallen trees or behind an unjustified ignorance of incidents which were carried out in the knowledge of too many people and were not allowed to be ignored by the responsible. From this point of view, we want to call for an appeal: we must not allow public dialogue to divert into indifference and toxicity. There are courageous people today who go out every day and report extremely painful and disastrous personal experiences. We must not let these voices drown in the culmination of party micro-purpose and turbulence. Our political system will have a huge responsibility towards a society that monitors everything that is happening. In linking this bill to the broader government's policy, we would say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is more about a government than about the difficult ones. And when I say 'hardly', I am not only referring to the management of emergencies and situations, where the government without a plan, for example, chooses 'aron-satisfactory closure', whether this concerns the pandemic or the National Road. I mean its general unwillingness, its inaction to carry out substantial reforms, despite its initial declarations, to reforms that will finally take the country forward. In the discussions in committee, I had the opportunity to refer to the recent legislation on the ASP, which was simply followed by a scorched one. The real reforms in public administration that are before us are two: it is the evaluation of civil servants, where the current Prime Minister had afflictedly failed as Minister of Administrative Reform, and it is finally the real decentralisation of the state. Because we are listening to a state of government, which means a state of general, but we do not see anywhere where there are officers and military. Last week, for example, we heard from the relevant Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stelios Petsa, that a bill will come to the House that will clarify the responsibilities between the central state and local government after the mess that happened with the recent bad weather. During the debate on my topical question last Friday to Mr Petsa, he replied to me that the conclusion of the Continental Committee - set up by the former Minister of Interior, Mr Theodorikos - which had as its object the decentralisation and the clearing of responsibilities between the central and self-government bodies of the state, does not exist, that all that is available is a personal work done by Mr Contiadis and that Mr Petsas has committed himself to doing so immediately. As soon as Sunday, however, we were informed by Mr Contiadis himself that this committee has not only produced a hundred-page, forty-page, unofficially delivered to the Ministry's leadership on 25 May 2020, that is, last spring, but that this committee had even prepared a draft law last autumn. What's the matter with both of you? What Mr. Petsas tells us, or what Professor Kontiadis claims? We are therefore calling on the relevant Minister, the Minister for the Interior, to give the committee's findings public immediately and finally to launch an essential debate on the issue of decentralisation and the clearing of responsibilities. I now come to the bill itself. As far as the National Accessibility Authority is concerned, we welcome its establishment, with which the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities is called. It is good, Minister, that you have adopted individual proposals tabled by the National Confederacy, such as the chairman of this National Commission, to be chosen by an opinion of the Parliamentary Committee. It is also a good thing that you seem to be adopting our own proposal for participation in the composition of the National Authority - is it not? - the Citizens' Assistant Consultant responsible for the thematic cycle of social protection. As I have had the opportunity to report to committee and on personal experience, the Citizens' Ombudsman has gained a wealth of experience on these issues for many years now. We therefore hope that the National Accessibility Authority will produce a project and take initiatives. There are some data published by EUROSTAT for 2019: 26% of adults in the European Union who face disability problems live in households with serious difficulties to meet their daily needs. Their financial resources do not cover the usual necessary costs. The corresponding percentage in households with adults with no disability in the European Union is 10% less, 16%, but among Member States of the European Union, the highest rates of people with motor problems are recorded first of all in Greece at 76.5% and followed by countries such as Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus and Romania. Therefore, this national authority is coming - we can say - late and we hope it will produce a project. For the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology, I can now remind you that they were set up with Law 2667/1998 on a PASOK government. They are an institutional conquest of the PASOK governments. The current government, in consultation with the National Committee for Human Rights itself, with its Bureau, has made important contributions, which in principle increase its independence, since the National Commission is now gaining legal personality and administrative and financial autonomy. However, the government does not resist the temptation and, in this bill, to follow its line by way of derogation in respect of the secondment and transfer of public personnel to all three committees. I am referring to Articles 8, 25, 27 and 37 respectively. I suspect that if we sit down and look at all the provisions of individual bills, all the bills of this government since July 2019 that have taken over to date, where secondments and public transfers are provided, we will find that more - perhaps overwhelmingly more - are those which are done by way of derogation from the existing provisions, rather than those which are made on the basis of the current rules, the normal provisions. This raises a question, how the exception to these matters in the public sector tends to become a rule. And we must not forget that when we adopt procedures for secondments and transfers by way of derogation, we are effectively stripping public bodies from staff who need and that is why there are also the services councils to give their opinions, when a civil servant is to leave either a poster or a poster to another public service. You are strengthening instruments to which you give a political weight for various reasons, possibly stripping the central administration or other individual public bodies, without taking into account their needs and without even asking them. We shall vote against individual provisions and for another reason, and that is because the procedure for selecting special scientific staff for term is in accordance with the provisions of Articles 31 to 35 of the recent AASP law, provisions that the Change Movement had voted against. The establishment of the National Bioethics Commission was, for its time, a pioneering initiative. Today the expansion of its scientific object acquires a special topicality, because it is urgent to regulate the major technological colleges, such as 'GOOGLE', Facebook, 'AMAZON', 'APPLE', 'MICROSOFT'. These platforms no longer process information and data for the benefit of the user, but make a product for the user themselves, having the ability to market and exploit in their own right, i.e. for their profits, the data that users themselves produce when they are navigated on the Internet. Developments that perhaps oblige us to revise the very distinct status of independent authorities, such as the principle of protection of the confidentiality of communication and the principle of personal data, because we now see that the issue of privacy is constantly changing with developments in science and technology. At first, privacy prohibited illegal surveillance - and here the constitutional defence was organised in Articles 9 and 19 of the Constitution - and then the development of science and information and technological developments in communication highlighted the issue of the protection of personal data, even data collected legally. The answer here was given by the constitutional legislature in 2001, with the introduction of Article 9a of the Constitution. Today the landscape is becoming more complex, because modern technology colossians are no longer interested in gathering information about specific persons, but about the amount of data from the huge anonymous crowd, using their services. By using algorithms, these companies are now able to process a huge amount of data, so that billions of people can be informed of their personal views and preferences. Information that after processing, they are sold to private advertising companies or other bodies, such as political parties, who are now able to know how to influence fully targeted and accurately the preferences of each unjustified but completely personalised user of the services offered by these colossians. It is therefore necessary for the States to adopt appropriate control and accountability tools to the giants of the digital economy, to coordinate their action at both European and international level, in order to monitor the action of these technological colleges. The step we have taken with the Bioethics Committee is a very cowardly step, Minister, for the great challenges that we are facing now in the field of privacy, but also in the wider context of the protection of privacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u8	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I'm starting with the National Accessibility Authority. We have also told the committee that it is part of the codified objectives reflected in the National Action Plan for Disabled Persons. A project that, on the one hand, wants to specialise for Greece in the European Union's 2020-2027 strategy for people with disabilities and on the other, through declarations, wishes that the government should appear to have social reports and, in fact, is interested in and taking measures at the level of national targeting and planning, in order to find solutions to the critical and acute problems of disabled people. This is being exploited, a positively charged concept is being used, but it is a central choice of capital and of the European Union, with high natural economic expectations. This is evidenced by the European Union's texts, which do not have any pretexts, but it is clear that ensuring accessibility for services, the structured environment, products will ensure that the European Union's internal market is extended, with the hundreds of millions of disabled people who can buy services and products, while at the same time strengthening European monopolies which are engaged in accessibility technology in their competition, with the Americans who are now more. And just by accepting this framework and the directions of the European Union, and in the area of disabled people, you are charging and ideologically strengthening the concept of accessibility, seeking to incorporate wider popular layers, but also disabled people, speaking of accessible health, welfare, education and so on. The aim is to undermine and cancel the prospect of claiming for purely public and free high-quality health, welfare, education, special education, single public and universal social security. No one, of course, says that public buildings, schools, public transport, the structured environment etc. It is not right to be accessible to disabled persons. But really, what prevented all of you, all those who have ruled, both the current government and the previous governments, from facing so many decades with the major problems of MEDA? Because no one needs to have a title to understand the needs, the problems of people with disabilities. On the other hand, you have voted for the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, which is a major revolutionary sector, such as the compulsoryity of special education, the fight against unemployment among SMEs, the compulsory existence of a certain proportion of the public and private sector staff, etc. However, these laws did not prevent more than two hundred thousand children in need of special treatment services from being outside these structures, and unemployment did not prevent the disabled from having literally hit red, with more than 90% of them. Of course, it cannot go beyond the fact that our country has become a disabled country, because there is no policy to prevent disability, the disease and everything that this entails. Like, for example, start from family planning departments, which do not exist in health centres, primary health care, to systematic monitoring of pregnant women, prenatal control, etc. Similarly, a series of prenatal tests, which even those that are free, are impossible to do in the public sector while a number of corresponding tests, critical for the health of the foetus, are paid. Or the fact that early diagnosis and early intervention, that is to say full control of infant children in order to make early detection and intervention, are unanswered when in the Soviet Union since 1960 there has been universal preventive control, what the so-called screening in children's ages from 1.5 to 3 years of age, from twelve different specialities. In Greece of 2021 with all this scientific potential, with all this progress in technology and science these are demanded. Or, for example, early identification of a child who is in the range of autism and the corresponding valid scientific intervention that can minimize even zeroing problems in the development of the child. It's a question of our country. Do the necessary medical treatments, which are essential for the daily living of the disabled are not guaranteed, and the artificial aids which must be provided free of charge for the daily living of the disabled? Oh, no. On the issue of your disability assessment, you all have a responsibility. The action plan to further promote and generalise this so-called 'functionality' as a key component of disability assessment, i.e. further cuts. You all take this direction to a lesser or greater extent and have implemented it either by current rulers or by former rulers. The same goes for the special treatment that we actually have the renunciation of the State from the responsibility of scientific education and rehabilitation for children with disabilities. Thus, in practice, as regards the education of children with disabilities, any families who have to pay specialists and the relevant means will meet the needs of their children. For poor children, however, the disabled are kept a school of devastated, storage room and fungus of the social barbarism that prevails. That is why the declarations by the European Union and governments on equal opportunities, on the fight against discrimination do not have any practical reflection, no practical value for both the disabled and the chronic sufferings of the poor people, because they cannot objectively and do not want to overcome the great inequality that breeds and broadens the capitalist system itself. And all of this, any committee or national authority or, as you describe it, cannot overthrow it, any reports or suggestions and testify, whatever good intentions and intentions may or may have, as well as baptising them either as disability or health or with Ministers for Public Health, cannot overthrow this direction. Because both the present government and the previous governments, even if you would like - and you do not want - cannot deal with the great, ever-growing problems that your own policy creates regardless of any minor differences in its management. And that you cannot be due to the fact that your strategic commitments and the framework of the European Union's guidelines for supporting competitiveness, namely supporting the needs of capital, the major business groups for profitability. At the altar of implementing this strategy, needs are sacrificed, workers' rights, the disabled, because they are costs to capital and the urban state with the governments that serve it. In addition to what we have said and much more we can mention, the resolution by all of you New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA of the third memorandum providing for a cut of 900 million, 0.5% of GDP. Did you forget that in 2015? Everyone's hands got up here, and that's why. It is therefore precisely with these political choices within the European Union and in the strategies of capital that the wheelchair movement, together with all the workers in the social alliance, needs to be redirected towards a break with the system that undermines their lives, but also with its political expressions who have made life hell for them. And it really is hypocrisy at least at the same time that, with all your policies, you are turning our people back a century, abolishing rights and conquests that have been won with hard struggles and sacrifices of our people, talking about defending human rights through the National Committee on Human Rights, which I am passing away was created in 1998. And here to remind us that our party at that time in the debate on the founding law of the ECHR of 1998, of Law 2667, had been placed for the role that the State held in the National Commission on Human Rights, claiming that it was not the objective of the real interest in protecting individual, political and social rights, but, in fact, it was intended to create a symphony leaf in the continuous slandering of rights through a controlled institutional counterweight. Developments have confirmed our appreciation, since governments, both legislative and, in practice, precisely within the framework of European Union law, European legislation and policy, have violated and are being brutally trampled, are literally devastated from their contents of ever more fundamental rights for workers, people's groups. Thus within this suffocating political and institutional framework, the EMCDDA has nevertheless managed to produce a worthwhile scientific work with reports on serious rights issues, observations on bills, but also with comments on topical issues. The core of this work, despite the role of the NSRP as the State's official advisor, governments were basically recognizing it by turning it into a simple wishing and an exhibition of ideas. In fact, they also made contributions over time to its operation in various ways, in order to control and manipulate it, which have all arrived - you all know - to lead to the resignation of its former President. In our opinion, therefore, the main framework is the political framework in which it is called upon to operate with any changes proposed in the bill by the National Committee on Human Rights, within a framework of politics, governments and the European Union that constantly exacerbates and violates the rights of our people. Why can't you talk about defending human rights when all of you over time with your political choices cancel in practice basic human rights, basic individual, political and social rights. Really, where's the right to work? Unemployment, labour wandering, tirework, half-work and half-life have become a norm. The right to family life and shelter where he goes? Where does the right to health go on a daily basis when public health is degraded due to its commercialisation and business operation? What about the social right, which, in any case, you say and which you are in favour of in the committees, in the discussions, in the public sector, has exactly been paid for? The tragic consequences of this policy of marketing and privatising health that all governments have been implementing have been living in the most tragic way for a year on the occasion of the pandemic. Really, what about the right to education when all of you are making sure that you set new barriers to education for the workers of poor people? Where did you get the right to social security after you left nothing standing up to the workers' conquests? You are talking about respect for human rights, but you have trampled every fundamental social right with your policies and the laws you are all voting for, wanting to put the working people's movement on the plaster. That's the target. Not to say, of course, about the protection of civil rights when basic civil rights are being persecuted so that your anti-popular policy can be implemented. You want to impose a slug silence on the workers, on the people. So, workers crawl into the courts, because they fight, fight, claim. Farmers are dragging into the courts, because they dare fight for their survival. Students were found, for example yesterday in Thessaloniki, confronted with state violence, state repression, because they claimed the right to education with open universities, respecting all the terms and conditions of the health rules imposed by the Treaties today. Ladies and gentlemen, we of course have no illusions that, with the proposed changes to the bill, as far as the committees that have been in existence since 1998 are concerned, there will be substantial independence, as I have said before, of the ECHR, since its legal form remains blurred, which makes it vulnerable to specific government interventions. We consider the exclusion of political parties to be particularly negative - we have said so in committee - from the composition of the ECHR and from the universities by removing the committee from the living forces of political and social life. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr President. As far as its existing staff are concerned, the proposed arrangements lead to occupational insecurity, since the continuation of its work is not guaranteed. Within the same political, economic and social framework, the National Bioethics Commission will operate and operate with the addition of the new term of technology, which enters with the proposed changes. Therefore, any changes do not constitute substantial differences in the role, mission and content of the committee. We say this because the expansion of the moral, social and legal dimensions and consequences in the areas, for example, biology, biotechnology, medicine, genetic and others, as well as new technologies such as artificial intelligence, advanced algorithms and robotics, as described as a mission of the committee, cannot be independently or socio-taxic neutral - that is objective, no one can question it - and that is because how all this applies - research, science, the results of research, for what purpose - depends on the nature of development, which is today characterised by competitiveness and profit and the social needs of the people. So it has always been - and this is how it has always been - the scientists who make up and make up the committee to be acquainted with prestige, with deep and multifaceted knowledge of their objects, but will function in a specific and definite context that meets the modern and evolving needs of the development of the capitalist economy and the contribution to it of the areas of responsibility of the committee. It is precisely what is stressed in Article 31 that the committee's contribution to adapting the national legal order to international and Union law, as far as its areas of responsibility are concerned. But is it not Union law that ensures the interests of business groups, competitiveness, profitability? So, for example - we also mentioned it in committee - the fact that the Bioethics Commission has laid down a framework and rules of operation and application to the issues of medically assisted reproduction, they have not, on the contrary, strengthened that this area of medically assisted reproduction has been scanned by the operators of the space, couples who need such services to pay them, and that in the public system few can find a way out - of course for limited cases of problems - because of the lack of infrastructure, structures and services and go by saying. In fact, in this matter, for example, what did the committee do? He dressed with a scientific cloak the business action, which is legally, morally, socially guaranteed by the law in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Lambroulis, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u11	I shall conclude, Mr President. Moreover, is it not European Union law that ensures health policy at the minimum possible state and insurance costs, increased payments of people's layers, subordinated public hospitals, non-existent primary care and others, which our people have been suffering for a year because of the pandemic? So when this committee has the limit and context of its findings, this law, adapted to Greece, itself or not, gives it the character of this committee? As a result, any changes are made and relate either to adjustments to the new data or delays in adaptation, etc. They do not change the basic direction. On the contrary, there is an attempt to cover up and be more acceptable to all governments than the people. In view of the above, Mr President, we cannot vote on this bill in committee and in our position today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u12	The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know, Mr President, we feel a little strange in this Chamber asking for free for serial killers. We will not enter, Minister, we in this game of the false confrontation of the New Democracy with SYRIZA because you are so much the same as big and important. You just choose some ideological moments to separate your party game and those, and the universities, Koufantinas, all these fairy ideologically. We did not hear of those who demand freedom for serial killers demanding the vindication of Katsifa with the same warmth here in the Greek Parliament, asking for freedom for our Aegean, the freedom for our Cyprus. But these are everyone's choices. Minister, I don't know, you're very experienced in life. Have you heard of the timer, Mr. Gerapetite? This dishonest, the rivalry of life, how important is it and what part does it play? It's sometimes in the New Democracy, in your government, as if you were doing it on purpose, really! We here today will talk about bioethics when morals out there in our society have gone for a walk and we will be talking here today about bioethics. It's not good timing that the bill comes here today, after everything they've seen the light of publicity in the last few days, the vomiting really and creepy of these and all that has been said by government lips. The government, Mr Gerapetiti, as Mrs Mendoni said, has not been deceived. He cheated on the Greek people! And here there's a big difference. And of course the way in which you are confronting New Democracy and SYRIZA in all of this, against the background of the horrific rapes of minors, shows one thing that you have lost every moral advantage. I'll tell you why they're hypocritically most of them. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, speaking from the Step of the House, we are currently addressing Greek citizens, parents, fathers, mothers, partisans, people of everyday life. And I am addressing these citizens, Minister, to tell them and to tell them that here - because nothing is accidental and unsuccessful in this society - a few months ago, Mr Gerapetititi, it was voted on - and the New Democracy Government brought this into force, who would have imagined that! - a bill giving 15-year-old children the right - I stress, 15-year-old children! - to choose their sex! Fifteen years, can a child be able to choose his sex, give him the right to the law, the Greek Parliament and bring it to New Democracy? Do your voters, the voters of the New Democracy know that? Do they know that this thing was passed a few months ago in here? That is, 15 years of age may choose his gender, but he is not able to vote! It must be seventeen to vote, but to choose its gender, it must be fifteen! Do the Greeks and Greeks know that one month before the 2019 elections, SYRIZA changed the Criminal Code and brought chaos penalties for these monsters all out there? A month! That's the kind of premiere they've got! A month! While they saw they'd lose the election, they changed the Criminal Code. Of course, once you were elected - it was from the first meetings of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs - that Mr Mylonakis and I fought to tighten the sentences, Mr Gerapititi! But then you didn't do anything. So it's hypocritical! When we were calling for strict penalties to be tightened up in the Criminal Code, "no, let them be." I remember it like now. Now? Will the Prime Minister be here on Thursday to say what? Will the Criminal Code change after a year and a half? When we talked about it, we were the bad guys, the extremists, the hard ones. Oh, no! We're realists and we're reasonable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u14	We changed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u15	It will bring some provisions again, retrospectiveness, etc. Yes, sir! Because if you hadn't changed the Criminal Code then the 62-year-old who was arrested today - and rotted in prison! - He won't rot! But we've changed, Mr. Plearis - you don't really like what we're saying - the Criminal Code. He would have rotted life in prison and wouldn't be out in two years! But that is the hypocrisy of the parties. And you address the Greek people, but you legislate and take them out in two years. Life has become four, five years, depending. What kind of life is that? Let's get something straight. Minister, what will you say 'planter' and 'child friend'? He's neither a lover nor a friend. They're pediatricians. They're neither lovers nor friends. What's that word? They're pedophiles and we'd be beg too much to use those words. We believe that - since the first day, the President of the Greek Solution - is self-evident, Mr Minister, the resignation of Mrs Mendoni. Self-evident! What are we talking about now? That is, what we consider to be self-evident and considers self-evident for the entire civilised world, for every reasonable favoured state that respects its citizens is not more consistent with your own DNA, which has probably been mutated from New Democracy to something else. We really don't understand what's happened to you. We're talking about mutation. The President of Greece has told you since the first time about the sentences. Some people say: 'Let us not be tough.' There's no such thing. Mr. Gerapititi, this has to be done. Chemical castration in these monsters! Really life for these monsters! There's nothing else. Is what we're talking about hard? A referendum should normally be held, and the Greek people should be asked what the penalty should be for these animals that are raping, raping and killing children. But when SYRIZA, as I said to you, changed the law by election, because by wanting or not, gentlemen, "closed the eye" to all of them, you had the opportunity to change the Criminal Code when you were elected and did not. You didn't! We demanded that I remember strict penalties then. But, you're scared. And we wonder exactly what you're fearful of. To punish the paedophiles in the most stringent way? Why would you be afraid of that, putting them in a dungeon and not seeing the sunlight again? Do you sound barbaric? We don't understand it. Is that barbaric? What is it, in other words, culture and morality? Is projecting and rewarding the different ones permanently? Do we always want to avade it, project it, applaud it different? So, to give posts and privileges, for example, to LGBTK members, to upgrade gay pride to euro pride? Are all moral and civilized and what we're saying is barbaric? How is that possible? So, can we create councils and services from the Prime Minister with the participation of the LGBTs? What's that supposed to mean? Lesbian - Gay - Transexual? Is that all civilized? Let's do whatever they want. Everyone's sexual preferences don't interest us, it doesn't matter. But to a point. Thousands of times, Minister, here we are the conservatives. Thousands of times! Our society, which listens to us out there, is sure to agree with us 100%. Let's go to the bills you're bringing now. Throughout this situation, Mr Gerapitris, the New Democracy brings bills that, instead of responding to the great and important problems of the Greeks, you are once again focusing on the wrong directions. You're on a completely wrong path. I'll explain what I mean. Does the bills you bring provide for measures to prevent unemployment, which will support those who are on job suspension, but which will, in fact, help the low-pensioners who have become editors and throw them at EUR 360 into the west of at least working life, so as to deceive them like that? Or do the bills you bring have beneficial predictions for the world of trade? None of this. What are you bringing? We don't step on her again. No matter what poaching you do with the bills, we don't step on it again. And it will be heard from here today, Mr Gerapetti. What does a bill relating to MEDIs have to do with transsexuals? You tell us. You bring for the LODs, you entangle us, because we want to vote for it. But you are bringing in a second pillar, which concerns all of them, and you are entangled in us. If we vote 'no' - and I say it is heard and the machines are written now - they will come out again and say that 'the Greek Solution has voted 'no' or'residents' for SMEs'. Because that's what you're doing. What can we vote for now? You told the committee they were relevant pillars. What does people with disabilities have to do with transsexuals, gay bars, gay prides, the "heavy bow" and all this? What does it have to do with us? So, you're trying to encroach on us in another bill, with which you 'close the eye', of course for voter reasons, on homosexuals, transexuals, lesbians, illegal immigrants, NGOs. Very NGO in. You're right. Everyone makes their political choices, Mr. Gerapitris. Everyone makes their political choices and the world will judge. That's why I told you about the New Democracy DNA. Look at it a little. I can't say the obvious. It is self-evident to say that the support of our fellow people with disabilities is essential, it is an obligation of the state. And we're late. We are the most "hospitable" country and city, the capital, Athens, for people with disabilities. Of course, it is important that accessibility, active involvement of our fellow humans in everyday life and society. That is why, Mr Gerapetritis, I should like to say this so that the Greeks and the Greeks can hear it again - we as a Greek Solution from the first time we entered here have asked for this. What? To set up a permanent special committee in the Greek Parliament for people with disabilities. Do we even have a committee to protect birds here in this House and do we not have a committee for people with disabilities? It's not done. These are issues that these people face. We have also proposed the setting-up of a standing technical committee, involving representatives of all ministries and the confederation to cooperate and work out proposals for the problems of SMEs, people with disabilities, their daily lives, their safe movement, so that these people can move to a city, in a country. To create special positions, to create equal opportunities, with a word to create respect. The word'respect' is a great word. Who doesn't want that? Who doesn't want to improve the mess that prevails out there? We are now going to human rights. It's the crown of your client's agenda. Because that is the mistake of the parties and we have said it many times. You're interested in next election. I said that to the committee. Any party that comes to the government from next minute is only interested in the next election. You don't care about the future, the next generations, but the next election. Your mind is there: "How to collect brittles, how to make graces, how to mock different communities." "Have I had them? Oh, no. Make an opening there, I'll get something from there too." Here, under the pretext of your interest in human rights, you are trying to win a vote clearly in organisations, groups, NGOs, Interracial Support Association, the "Athens Pride", the homosexual and lesbian community of Greece, the community of LGBTKI. The list has no end. Everywhere you see party customers. I'm going to something else so you don't get bored of the same thing. The setting-up of the committee is also provided for by the WWF and the GREENPEACE. No problem. 'They are environmental organisations' you will tell me. The environment is concerned and well done. However, these organisations, Mr Gerapetiti, have some opinions and we must be clear about whether they agree with the views of the WWF and GREENPEACE, the New Democracy, the Liberal Party, etc. Do you agree not to exploit the hydrocarbons? This is what the 'WWF' and the 'Greenpeace' are saying. Isn't the New Democracy in favour of the exploitation of our energy deposits? Are you in favour or against? Because these organizations are against. That's what Mr. Varoufakis says. If you have reached the point of agreeing with Mr Varoufakis, then you do have a problem. Do you want him to be in the committees? I say to you that these organisations have the views I have given you now. You may have argued in the debate on the bill in the committee responsible that you do not legislate independently, because we told you that we had an allergy with the independent authorities. Only the AIA costs 550m euros a year, Mr Gerapetti. Money from the Greek people. Thirty-two independent authorities. You are telling us that they are not independent authorities. I also told you in committee: they will be, but they will not be independent authorities. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yes, but you are giving all the privileges of the independent authorities: both privileged treatment and superpowers and by way of derogation, by way of a ministerial decision, remuneration of members of the committee authority. Generally speaking, you legislate at the characteristics of the independent authorities, but they will not be independent authorities. Paisios, Senator Paisios, said so: they will be independent authorities, but they will not be. That's what you're telling us. Let's go to something else. It's positive three - four things. Don't blame you, I'll see you here today. You heard them. Some of our comments - and you are honoured - you have acted. You have withdrawn the inadmissibility, as we have said in committee, of an on-the-spot check on services and the possibility of the President - listen a little - access to classified documents. You withdrew it. And while you withdrew it for the Accessibility Authority and for the Bioethics-Technology Authority - I am either wrong or you will bring it into law - you did not withdraw it from the Committee on Human Rights. Is it true or not? I may be wrong, but if it's true, why did you withdraw it to the other two and didn't withdraw it here? What's going on? Is this your mistake, then, or will the committee allow the president to have access to any kind of confidential documents, access without restrictions, without any determinations and no protection of personal data? What's going on here? We'd like an answer. It is planned to be irresponsible, he says, for the members of the committee authority. Why can't they be accountable if they have to? After these committees have a duty to carry out a task, why should we not be able to control them, in other words? What does "responsibility" mean? But it's irresponsible to legislate on irresponsible, don't you understand? Why would they have this irresponsible? You are therefore making laws similar to independent principles, but they are not. I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. In any case, we only have one speaker on the small parties. Show an esteem. Thank you very much. So you are to legislate on principles and committees which have an advisory role, but which enjoy privileges and favourable regulations and all of course fall under the Prime Minister. You will tell me later, when you will speak: 'And where should they come from?' I know that everything belongs to the Prime Minister, ERT, ERP, committees, everything to the Prime Minister. That's never happened before. Human rights. Really? Are we talking about people's rights? So you are interested as a government for people's rights, but you are being violated on a daily basis by imprisonment and by the coronary. Have you ever considered how many mental disorders and consequences of incarceration will be for the Greeks? Have you ever considered human rights? But here you are violating human rights. Have you seen what's going on abroad? Why such rigour and such a "shillow" to the Greeks? What is the point, when the state itself, Mr Gerapetti, is lacking morality and is directly or indirectly imposing vaccinations? Because that's what you're going to do. Don't we have human rights here? That's what you're going to do. What is the point in the technology when you use algorithms when you had the recent "shipwreck" in the summer with the algorithm that you screwed up with tourism? Wasn't that where we had a craftsman? Algorithm? Madara. I'm hanging up. Minister, although we really appreciate you very much, you can be sure that the Greek people see all this and they understand you and will prove it to you in the next elections, which are not late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. With Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25, the rapporteurs and speakers are closed. Then I will give the floor - which under the Rules of Procedure has the right - to the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. Also, the Minister, if he wants to make his speech, or parliamentarians at any time can take the floor. I would ask that the Bureau be informed. Otherwise, we will begin with the first circle of speakers, where the first six are Mr. Loverdos, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr. Papadimitriou, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, Mr. Kavadas and Mr. Vernardakis. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I move on to the bill, I would urge, in view of the recent stormy developments that people have been suffering from abuse of behaviour, to resort to justice, to trust both independence and the effectiveness of justice, the rule of law, to perpetuate all the anti-institutional behaviour of government officials, who have been trying in recent days to disorientate and disintegrate their responsibilities. I would also like to denounce the "orgy" of police repression yesterday at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. We've seen dreadful images of student violence with horrific incubations. Even the journalists excluded them from entering the site and recording what was happening. We really ask, Mr Minister: is this the cool breath of democracy that would enter the universities with this stubborn, uneducated, authoritarian bill? I'm going through the bill. We have three interventions, the establishment of the National Accessibility Authority and regulations governing the National Committee on Human Rights, as well as the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology. You have brought some changes after the discussions in the Committee on Civil Service, which we welcome, but you do not really solve the problems. I am therefore entering the articles. We have Article 14(3), which provides that the appointment of the President of the National Accessibility Authority remains the sole prerogative of the Prime Minister in agreement with the Parliament, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. First of all I have to ask what is the Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to be applied here, Minister. If you do not mention it in the bill, at least we must make an authentic legislative interpretation so that the House can have some direction when it comes to giving its opinion. What is the body that will give its opinion? Will the Conference of Presidents be a special committee? You know very well that when we talk about an opinion, we are talking about a simple statement of opinion, which in no way binds the Prime Minister, does not restrict him to choose between two or three persons who have been elected by the House by a majority. He will listen very typically to the opinion and eventually choose the one he has decided from the start. So you do not give any sense to the intervention of this House, but you add a simple bureaucracy. It makes no sense, nor do you make any manifestation of democracy, nor do you actually involve Parliament in the whole process, since it is really impossible to believe that if a party of counter-population is proposing a particular person for the President of the Authority, it is only alas if this person ultimately prevails over the chosen person, Mr Mitsotakis. We're going to the National Human Rights Commission. After you had removed from article 13 of the bill on the composition of the committee, you are now bringing them back as representatives of the parties, in other words, you are actually bringing them as simple external partners identical to the representatives of the social partners, with the representatives of the committees, that is, making the institutional representatives of the country's largest collectiveness chosen by Greek and Greek voters, who are the House, simple, third, decorative interlocutors. This, therefore, in no way strengthens the representativeness of this principle, in any case fulfils the hierarchical proportionality. In the same committee, several of the members of the committee are chosen by plenary on the one hand with vague criteria on the subject of cognitive information and, on the other hand, it says that they will come from some research institutes, some research centres or organizations, which are not listed in the bill, which are not specified in the minimum requirements that must be met and also in respect of the conditions to be met. The National Committee on Bioethics and Technology: You continue to make the same mistake, despite the fact that I have pointed it out several times during the debate in the committee. Transfer technology to the actions of a committee which has little staff and insufficient, de facto budgets. With a fifth memorandum before the gates, we know very well that the resources for these authorities and committees will be insufficient to produce a substantial result. In Article 32, you are incorrectly insisting on the logic of the four-year term of office. I shall therefore repeat what I have said in committee. It is worth listening to an example of real life, which proves that what you do fails in practice when it comes directly to the Prime Minister, just as it is to the National Commission. I would therefore mention the example of Mrs Papoutsopoulos, chosen by Mr Samaras as National Coordinator for Drugs Management with a five-year term of office. When SYRIZA took power, Ms. Papoutsopoulos has been abducted for almost four years. After the end of its term of office two years ago, SYRIZA chose Mr Quimtzides as her successor, who for a year and a half, from the beginning of your administration, you have not mentioned him anywhere, despite the fact that he is a scientist with many parchments and you have not exploited him. So what you want to do is to put "trip" on the next government with all these provisions. Let's go to the National Commission itself, to Article 32. And here there is no reference to a scientific or research background. And we are asking ourselves: is it possible that such a principle with such a technological structure will not, even in fact, specialize in the scientific fields of Members, which the Prime Minister himself will choose arbitrarily and without accountability? In other words, we have a double arbitrage here. On the one hand, Mr Mitsotakis will decide whether members are arbitrary, unaccountable and, on the other hand, there is no restriction on the text to the specialization Prime Minister in relation to his choice. We believe that this is neither scientifically correct, but neither politically nor morally appropriate. You have added to the responsibilities of the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology the possibility of publishing soft law acts. And to become more specific, we know that soft law is not a very traditional concept in Greek legal culture. It is the so-called'soft law', which, according to the definition of the European Union, is essentially a few simple ethical rules, which do not produce direct legal binding power, but seek to produce practical results which can produce. But you are referring to Rule 31, Minister. The responsibilities are already indicative. You say: 'The committee has the following powers in particular'. Why do you come here to specialize in the soft law? Is it possible for a committee, which is supposed to be issuing Soft Law, to have such superpowers and how much more so when this committee comes directly to the Prime Minister who will choose arbitrarily and without accountability to the members? We know very well that all of these 'green' and 'white' soft law books are often not only soft law. Instead, you want to create - so you put technology as technical and science - in this way think tanks, think tanks, ideological tanks, which we know very well how much influence they have on society and politics. In this way, of course, you are also giving the Prime Minister the possibility of a quasi-minor piece of legislation. In some other articles on the National Accessibility Authority, both of these National Committees provide that the remuneration and allowances of members, as well as the remuneration of scientific staff, will be determined by a decision of the Minister of Finance by way of derogation of any other provision. In other words, you have allowed the Minister to set once again the rewards and rewards that will be paid by these people, who of course - to repeat as tiring as I am - will have been chosen by the Prime Minister arbitrarily and without accountability. So you leave the door wide open to your chosen Golden Boys, to such important bodies that are supposed to produce an important project. You create principles of two speeds and wages, ignoring in this way the constitutionally guaranteed independent principles. So we consider your bill, Minister, to be a draft law. It's not a bill of results. You are once again building a pre-centralised structure, precisely following on from what you have done with the ERT, a huge structure that has more employees than the central offices of the ministries, and you are adding a principle and two committees that will be subject to the direct supervision of the Prime Minister again. You are giving the Prime Minister the right to choose to such important bodies the staff he wants, without even limiting it to specific conditions now that he will not be accountable. This therefore serves the logic of the service of the "blue children", the well-paid choices chosen by the Maximos Mansion. It serves your hydro-headed, rosphetological state so that you can build your professional staff's army, because they don't mind either the opacity, the lack of independence, or even the derogatory payroll. You have found space everywhere for late payouts "the other day". And when I say slow-wages, I am not talking about the very important subject of these principles, which should have on the record, but you are building principles and committees that in the end you want decorative interlocutors once in a while, and since their budgets will ultimately not be enough to be able to produce such an important scientific work, but they will only be enough for the miserable remuneration of members. What, then, did this bill bring about in terms of improving the living conditions of the disabled? Nothing. What has led to the protection of the rights of vulnerable groups, such as disabled people? Nothing. What has led to the strengthening of research and work around bioethics and technology? Nothing. The very same 'nothing' that you have brought for a year and a half to protect the social rights of the disabled, the victims and the citizens in general. It is the same thing that we will see at all levels of social policy where the fifth memorandum before the gates will follow significant cuts in social expenditure, with well-founded fears even worsening in disability diagnosis from disability certification centres. A further 'help' to these groups, which need it even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, silence is not gold. It's "black" complicity. Today the title of the bill, in one part, refers to the establishment of the National Committee on Human Rights under the Prime Minister. Listening to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Consola, I was really pleased to hear his speech about how, in the opinion of the Government, this committee can have a multi-level intervention on the very crucial issue of human rights. I even thought that this government has been accustomed to leading international organisations, where the European Parliament for five months and yesterday the Secretary-General of the United Nations sounded the alarm that, in view of the protracted situation of the pandemic, governments should - both in authoritarian and authoritarian terms and in all regimes - be prevented from attempting to suppress, authoritarianism, deprivation of rights, all generations of rights within countries, within societies. It is a crucial international problem. And I was telling which government we are at, what timing we are at. And that's why I told you that silence is not gold. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling New Democracy party, we have said again from this Step that there is a question of democracy in the country these months. I will say something much more serious and more specific: you are setting up - either with 'yes' or with 'e' - a specific police state in the context of parliamentary democracy, making full use of the reduction, the shrinking of public space and the inability of the world to discuss publicly, intervene, protest, claim rights in supervised societies, etc. You have been doing so consciously for months, constantly bringing bills, which tend to be formal or informal, confessed or unspeakable police state in our country. Police everywhere and an unprecedented concept of authoritarianism and repression. What happened yesterday at the unsub was very indicative. Similarities to students who were protesting about closed schools, the possibility of meeting, the right to say their views and made these acts which were, through photographic material, seen by the Greek society and actually overthrown. I'll tell you a clue. In the last four days, two hundred people, younger and older, have been injected on the occasion of three gatherings where they either threw hairblows or shouted slogans, without doing anything else and not to "multiplate" the space, as the police sometimes did, that is to say to get their data. All these people together, two hundred were prosecuted, the incubations turned into arrests and monthly reports, went to court. What does that have to do with what we're talking about here today? We're talking about the right of assembly. We're talking about mild peaceful protests. It's in your knowledge. There's no charge from the police for these two hundred people, sixty-five plus fifteen plus thirty-three yesterday. Where do we live? Has this thing happened before? Do You Remember? I don't remember when I'm older. Younger ones may be remembered from the recent past or from other countries. Inadmissible! Inadmissible at all! It's clear you're using the pandemic to set up this police state. You have been asked for a debate here for months to be held here in the House on the findings of Mr Alivizatos, which was made by your own decision, on the arbitrariness in the field of police, in order to raise issues that require a different perspective. You don't bring that stuff. Who are you reporting to? What audience? Why do you, when I repeat to you that all the supreme international organisations, the great European family to which we belong, and the UN, for its part, especially for the long-term pandemic and the special situations of societies with reduced rights and with the opening of other routes for supervised societies, have raised a question of non-suppression, of not taking advantage of authoritarianism on the part of governments? Let me tell you that the rule of law cannot be turned into a state of authoritarian, police rulership, into a state of vengeance. And that will not happen even if she is conscious - I leave a question here - your effort. There are too many incidents over the last few months and you know them very well. I also have to deal with the issue that has been raised by other colleagues and which you have been deaf for days. There are communications, interventions by SYRIZA, Mera25, by the JRC on the issue of the hunger strike of Dimitris Koufantina, a case which may well lead to a dramatic development in the life of this prisoner condemned of acts of terrorism, simply by your disposition, a mood that you manifest through silence in principle and by not taking measures, in order to have an eminently vigilant act in the face of this prisoner. What's he asking for? He has asked - and you all know that - for the New Democracy law to be applied, the law on the penitentiary system, which you voted on, we did not vote on, which abolished rights in agricultural prisons, etc. and who is clear that once the regime has been lifted to be someone in the rural prisons, he is returning to the prison from which he was transferred. This simple request, for which international factors have already emerged, has already been placed prominent personalities of spiritual life and of the political life of the place. I see the King in front of us. For you and for many others outside this Chamber the presence of Vasilikos may not say anything. I heard yesterday from Kostas Gavras' intervention, and I saw the dozens of interventions that exist from spiritual people, from people of culture, from organisations. It's really unthinkable what you're doing. You saw the questions raised by the Citizens' attorney, the independent authority. You kept answering. If that's possible! We do not have the independent authorities to be in our pockets whenever it suits us to listen to them and whenever it suits us not to listen to them. Ladies and gentlemen, our judicial system is a progressive judicial system. You know that and we know that very well. We've legislated in here. Two weeks ago, he was released following a seven-year detention on the basis of the legal system - and there were no public protests - condemned for 2.1 tons of heroin, in the case of NOOR 1. He's been released. How many deaths would it cause or has already brought our children, our state, our country, possibly abroad - because that quantity was to go to all the Balkans - this act of the condemned? And yet in the seven years he was released under our current legal system. I note in particular that what is being asked is the application of the law. There's nothing else to be asked for, nothing to do. And I note - I cannot silence - the very small statement made by Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, who you know very well that it would be the one who had other ideological and other perceptions, would be the last one to ask her to make a statement on the convicted Koufantina, who said that the law applies to all Greeks. That's the situation. This is the dramatic scenery, which starts from Domokos and arrives at the Aristotle, a cigarette street. Once there was this perception that we have discussed here many times, that from the turf to criminal, terrorist energy, it is nothing, and that is why we need to hit the turf, the simple voice of the students, so they can't get to do criminal, terrorist acts. Is this a rule of law related to this concept? Is this about justice? Does this have to do with a liberal government, as you want to present yourself? [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not simply expressing my disappointment or my amazement at how the government as a whole, the Prime Minister himself, to whom they have also made personal appeals, is deaf in these matters. I am not even talking about the Minister of Citizen Protection, who has literally managed the strategy of tension and the strategy of fear management within the pandemic in these difficult months. It's misery as a political exercise. I'm talking about the government, I'm talking about the top government. You can't be deaf. You can't intently answer that question. You cannot ideologically and with a flagrant avenge you can put politics of this kind, not in service, but in repression, authoritarianism, and in danger, and in the life of detainees, who have every right, regardless of how the state will deal with it, to seek legal aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you should make decisions as a whole in order to stop this stumbling and building a police state in the country and, of course, to make a decision, which I will not even call it brave, but self-evident, in order to stop, on the part of the rule of law, this violation of the legitimate rights of that prisoner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. He has asked for the floor, as Mr Kaklamanis, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Pilaris, informed me about his speech and then Mr. Raguss. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I have chosen as a parliamentary representative not to abuse years by taking the floor ten times. So once I think it is appropriate to answer things that have been said, I will make use of my basic speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly surprised and was initially surprised by the position of Mrs Fotio as SYRIZA's rapporteur in a bill, where she referred to the alleged violation of the rights of eleven convicted of homicide - she has not been convicted of simple criminal acts - and of terrorist actions by Dimitris Koufantina. And I would not have taken the floor, I would have expected it to be my turn to respond, but I have heard from this here that the former President of this House would come and make an analysis and compare it with a man who was released a while ago for drugs. Let's go in a row. First of all, why was this man released from drugs? Because it's nice to hear that audience. I'll tell you why he was released. Because our previous legal framework, Mr President, stated that in many pounds drugs are only life, there is no other penalty, life. A lot of pounds of life. Life meant sixteen years in. Who has changed the criminal context for more than a thousand pounds of drugs we have a penalty of ten years as a life expectancy? It was the SYRIZA government's choice that we will no longer only have life sentences, there will be alternatives. Who changed our criminal context and can take relief because it has a white penal record, with an earlier legal life, and life is two to eight years? SYRIZA changed them, you changed them when you made comparisons. So let's go in the case of Kufondina, so you don't get any misinterpretations here. The New Democracy, with its choice, had appointed Type III prisons, when you remember them. They were prisons, where people were there - and people were convicted of terrorism - were not entitled to take neither licenses nor to go to rural prisons. Political choice of the government. In the first half of SYRIZA's governance comes the first Paradise law, in 2015, March - April - beware, in the two months - and abolishes Type III prisons and gives the terrorists the right to move to rural prisons and get licenses. Right of SYRIZA. He wanted - and that was the political choice - terrorists to be treated more favourably than those defined in the framework at the time. So Mr. Koufantinas goes to rural prisons, where we have the phenomenon of a man with eleven homicides and terrorist acts to do prisons over where criminals' softest people do and the government is changing. And the New Democracy chooses to partially restore the status quo. And we say in rural prisons we don't want terrorists transferred. Do we have that right? Is it a sovereign law to choose a government and to be judged by the citizens that we in rural prisons want to go to people with less propensity for crime? We voted for it. We voted against it against you, and it had to be implemented. What does Kufontina say now, starting the hunger strike? Where was I? I was holding on to the Crowley. So, after you take me from the rural prisons, turn me to the Koudalus. But come on, when Korydalus has become a prison of judges and not convicted or convicted of very light offences. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, followed it and we, that Korydalus, precisely because of his burden, will be people who are confiscated, subjugated, that is, running their eighteenth, and we choose people to be in light crime too. And so, the convicted, the biggest criminal right now in Greek prisons - I don't know any other case of human being having eleven homicides and terrorist acts, there may be - so this particular man wants the Greek Government to violate the law by blackmailing it. As long as the prison's a court of law. Let's go to a next stage. Are we going to talk seriously, ladies and gentlemen? Anyone who makes a hunger strike in Greek prisons to have a request to serve his sentence - why is that the request - will it be a sovereign right? So can't the Greek administration and the penitentiary say where each one will serve his sentence? You've already taken care of the change of the Criminal Code and Mr. Koufantinas will be released in less time than the previous one has been defined. We know that. We can't change it. This is where you talk about vengeance. For what vengeance? It is the clear will of a government that in prisons we want those who have low delinquency to have the beneficial opportunities to reintroduce and those who have a very heavy form of crime do not have these beneficial provisions. So not agricultural prisons for terrorists - and it was our right to vote for it - and it would obviously be the case for everyone to serve their sentence on the terms and rights that the state has in place. And if we've chosen Korydalus to have him in court, we're not going to put her in prison of polysofts because Mr. Koufantinas wants it. Ladies and gentlemen, this line here knows that we are all at risk every day from the fans of Mr Koufontina. We are at risk of attacks like colleagues who burned them and the cars, like Constantine Bogdanos, are at risk for all our MPs, who are beaten by the offices, and we are determined every day that we leave our house and kiss our children that they can be found by Mr Koufantina's followers to kill us. But our principles and values will not change them. You guys come here as Mr. Koufantina's proxy lawyers. We come as proxy lawyers of Mr. Koufantina's victims. And that's our difference. Let's see more generally how you have voted in this whole context, because you have the courage to come here and talk about political responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the centre-left with centre-right has a basic turning point. What's the main curve in our Penitentiary Code? That the Central Left believes in the very low sentences that will convict the victim, while the Central Right believes in penitentiary, but wants the sentences to be strict and proportionate. This is a political choice. Have the courage to support this choice and now that the cases are blowing. Because the cases they are going through, ladies and gentlemen, are basically the crime of rape. You've heard of it. Let us see, then, what is political responsibility and how the Greek state has legislated on the subject of rape. The previous Criminal Code, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 336, defined the following: "Rape: Whoever through physical violence or a threat of great and immediate danger..." - critical, not only physical violence, any kind of threat - "...forcing another to intercourse or other care is punished by imprisonment." How much was in prison with previous criminal law? Five to twenty years. So here you found a criminal law that said that he who goes and rapes an adult, minor, anything, whether he's physically violent, or threatens him, says to him "I'll destroy you in your work", "I'm the strong one, and if you don't do what I say to you, you'll never go out to the theater, to work, to sport" - you hear the complaints - the sentence is five to twenty years. That was our choice, the choice that criminal law has had since 1950. You come with the new Criminal Code and say: "Anyone with physical violence or a threat of serious and direct life-threatening or physical integrity..." - take note of violence and threat of physical integrity or health, not the cases that are being denounced, in addition, that "threatening me with my professional development" - "without consensus is doing an act of sexual freedom..." - which you define the act of sexual freedom as being intercourse or of equal significance, that is, what the previous Criminal Code defined - "... sentence is imprisonment". But you made it five to fifteen years. That's your right. But what did you do when you were judged? All the other threats - do you remember what we hear? - you said there was an initial flood - Mr Kaloger had said so - and once the world got up, you made it a light felony. You say, ‘Whoever, except in the case of paragraph 1, is attempting a sexual act without consent, shall be punished by imprisonment of up to 10 years’. So what context did you find? You found a sentence frame five to twenty years and chose for the heavy forms of rape up to fifteen, for acts that have no physical violence and have a threat of up to ten. Ten years means three and a half years of construction. That was your choice. Your choice was to reason that we are reducing penalties. He'll be judged politically. And why would he be judged strictly political? For in "dead" period, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, Prime Minister, came with Kostas Tsiras Minister of Justice and says, "children, we immediately correct some problems that exist in the Criminal Code". So in November 2019 we come here and say to No4637/2019: To agree that one week before the elections you changed the Criminal Code, but there are some mistakes. We are going to fix them, although those who have committed crime will be judged in the favourable context. But let's make it right. And what are we telling you? To keep the philosophy of the basic thing that you say you want 15 years of the ceiling of imprisonment, not to bring it back to 20. So is Kyriakos Mitsotakis coming and says to you in Article 1: Is it for rape at least ten years? So from five to fifteen we can do it at least ten years, know that whoever is convicted of rape will definitely come in four years and won't come in two? So, should we say she has a minimum of ten? We're asking for that. What more do we say? "Come on, you would like to have loose sentences in other contexts. Say, is there any possibility of life imprisonment? I mean, instead of ten to fifteen that are set, to do ten years of life, to be able to make a court when it sees the rapists of Topalud, come and say that you will live the rape because you were two?” We brought it, voted against it, and voted against it, gentlemen of SYRIZA. So your choice was that you wanted the smallest sentences. Because we came and told you at least to fix two things. We told you not to change your philosophy, to keep the philosophy of sentences as you wanted, but to go to "dead" time. And you voted against them. And, unfortunately, for other reasons, Mr Heta, the Greek Solution voted against it, because it was with another article that you didn't like. But you voted against it. The point is that these corrections to rape only went through the New Democracy votes. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, because things have been so great, even for the East, which has been done by the Dean's intervention - the Rector has asked to come in - I will say this: each party is judged and has a strict political responsibility. And political responsibility is not an unfortunate statement of a good Minister for Culture. Political responsibility is what we are voting on. This Criminal Code in the crimes of rape has become your criminal record, colleagues of the SYRIZA, and every time you go up to this Step and ask for political responsibility, start and say: "We apologise to the victims, because they will be tried with beneficial provisions that we, one to each member of SYRIZA came and voted for and individually has political responsibility."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Plearis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u24	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I will only need a minute. I would like to say this: you said a phrase, which was absolutely revealing. You separated the House - and, indeed, you showed them here - to those who are advocates of criminals, terrorists, etc. for their rights and others, your ward, you are the Counselor of the Victims. You probably thought you were in court. Why is that phrase revealing? For you have forgotten, Mr Plearis, that you are a very experienced lawman, that justice has ruled. Counselors and prosecutors were in another room. They ruled and sentenced Dimitris Koufantina. It is not the House where we are divided between lawyers, prosecutors of victims and victims. From there, then, I told you about a vengeance. You want to retrialize the trial on your terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u27	You can't now, Mr. Villardo. You have no reason to intervene at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u28	He referred to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u29	He referred to you. I get it, too. Indeed, I saw Mr Heta agree with that, namely that you did not vote for it, because in the same article it was something you did not want. That was understood. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Ioannis Ragossis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, just for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u31	Once Mr. Ragus is done, I'll give you the floor. But if that is what it is, you must not take the floor and do not insist. The clarification has been made by me too. If you have something that's different, I didn't see it. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with Mr Ploris, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy over President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who gave us the opportunity to hear and follow what I think is precisely what one can call a extreme right-wing populism and, indeed, in his delusional version. Because after you have arrived, Mr Ploris, Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the point where you separate the House from those who defend victims and those who defend those who defend them, I think you have reached the lower step of absolutely undignified political behaviour within Parliament. Listen, Mr Plouri, listen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, listen to this, too, Mr Gerapetti. We really split up on two sides. But these are not the two sides that Mr Ploris said, but they are, firstly, the side that defends the basic and fundamental principles of the rule of law on the one hand, the side that the law wants to apply indiscriminately to everyone, as is the case throughout the civilised world and on the other, those who want the rule of law in fact to transform it into a "State of Koufantina". The state you described earlier, Mr Ploiris, is the "Koufantina State", which does not respect the law. It is even now that the state that does not respect human life is present at these border points. But that's what Koufantinas did! For Koufantina, before being convicted of these inhuman killings, these two things were the main guide to his life, not respecting the law and not respecting the human life, what you do, wanting to turn the rule of law into a "Koufantina State", violating the law that you themselves voted and indifferent to this cynical and unacceptable way of human life. And then you went through, of course - once again, it is the truth, in this respect, that this is not the first time - to the well-known, this shameful legal populist reason for the new Criminal Code. At the same time as you know very well - and you cannot personally appear to know that you do not know - that this Criminal Code is the scientific first result of the work done by the fracturing of the legal science of our country, especially in Criminal Law - by professors of the Criminal Law devoid of legal science in Greece and which is based on a very basic principle - very simple in its reasoning, which is a very large part of the Greek society every day that understands it and, of course, accepts it - that, instead of having 20 years, thirty years, forty years, which are estimated for two years, three years, four years, four years, we should have an adaptation and instead of showing that we are going through terrible and horrific penalties, two-life life, three-life sentences, which are translated into a three-year sentence, four years, and we must adjust the penalty that it is being imposed and divided. And what you are lying about continues to say and misinform the Greek people is that with the new one - that is the basic truth, there is no more basic - Criminal Code the penalties are more valued. It is a long time ago the sentences that are being executed by the new Criminal Code compared to the oldest Criminal Code. And those who are sentenced to rape with the new Criminal Code will spend more time in prison than they would be sitting with the oldest Criminal Code. But, Mr Ploiris, it is really a disgraceful level of confrontation and you take it down to that level, because these truths you know and Mr Gerapetti knows them very well and he knows that the legal world of the country has been fighting for decades to adapt to the Criminal Code on the basis of this initial fundamental view. But beyond that, what do you want to say? You disagree - respectful! - with what I just mentioned, and we've said it on several occasions. You have another point of view, revered! Why are you invoking this? To defend against what you otherwise think is harming you and insulting you and which is currently being channelled - badly channelled - on the Internet or "#ND - paedophiles" etc. etc.Huh? So what are you guys doing after all? Do you really come to defend yourselves against approaches which are not far from obscene - why pedophiles obviously are and are you not and do not understand how to speak out such a phrase - and you come to defend yourself against these vulgar situations of the Internet with such arguments that actually take this very logic to turn it against Anti-Population and say what you said about the new Criminal Code? That the ex-government, today's Dedicated Opposition, is being given to pedophiles? But aren't you finally embarrassed? And all this happens when you're irreparably exposed to the issue of Linguide? Reversely exposed! First of all - and most importantly of all - because the case of Linguidis illustrates the governance model of Mr.Mitsotakis, since Lignade was appointed until the attempt to cover up all those already submitted and reported against him has been unleashed. This is a route and it has a start, a half and a half. This is the model of governance of Mr. Mitsotakis, he has a name now. Why does he have a name? Because it was almost the first - the first must have been, I don't remember if it had been before - Mr. Gerapetiti's bill on the notorious supposedly state of our country. With this you have come - the first act of your Government - to abolish the legislative provisions introduced since 2016 and according to which the artistic director at the National Theatre had to be selected after an international invitation - public invitation! - and she was. And Mr. Gerapetritis came here - a legislator - to take the way Lignade took the place of the artistic director at the National Theatre. And you abolished this public invitation, the international invitation, and you gave Mrs. Mendoni the right to appoint your chosen one. Act first, then, is the law on the Final State that abolished the provisions on international and public invitations to Linguide to be appointed by Ms Mendoni and then the amendment, Mrs Mendoni's amendment, with which exactly what happened? The invitations that were already on the air have been removed. Please, I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, then there were the revelations. There have been recent revelations, February 6, 2021. Nikos S., with a sensational description of all those who experienced inhumanity, gives a public interview, published in "mag2020". Why didn't justice move on Mrs. Mendoni's initiative? This complaint saw the light of February 6th. And why the day that the Prime Minister himself broke out in Ikaria appeared on the same day to announce that Mr Lignade submitted his resignation? Why did you not have - and why - the political courage to ask you to resign, to expel him that night, but did you show him to submit his resignation and indeed for personal reasons? So this is the model of governance that exists in the country now. We remove transparent and merital processes, we institutionalise privileged formula, rosphetological formula, party-type processes in the public sector, and when something goes wrong, it is revealed in relation to the operation of those we have placed, we activate the cover-up mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, I neither adopt nor evaluate nor interpret. Since yesterday, they have seen the light of publicity at "www.bloko.gr" - a website read by all Greek Police, all Greek and Greek police officers - two very important information, for which you are due, Mr. Gerapitris, to take place. The first is that no home-based investigation has been ordered during the arrest of Mr. Lignade, so that not all electronically-critical objects have been seized, which is well known to everyone that most of the time is that they lead to finding the truth. Also, there's no confiscation on his cell phone. These are revelations for which you must take place. In addition, I imagine you will agree, Mr Gerapetiti, we all expect the investigating authorities to do their work as legally required and among others to waive the telephone secrets of Mr Lignade's talks. I imagine that your assessment is also expected to be made by the investigating authorities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, for society, which has really been shocked to observe all these revelations, is to have a cleansing. The most important thing for the Greek society, for the millions of Greeks and Greeks, is to impose catastrophic cleansing on this shocking, resentment, abhorrent, unacceptable situation that has seen the light of publicity. However, the Greek society has now formed the opinion that you cannot bring the clearance. And you can't bring the clearance because you just rule with a model, which is actually because it's based on opacity and inexperience. Because we need the clearance in cases like that of Lignade, because Lignade has been placed on the basis of your model of governance transparently and undiminishedly in the position of the head of the artistic director of the National Theatre. You are, therefore, - having introduced, having established this model of governance - the reason why you cannot bring the clearance to reality, whatever kinds of communication and if you are trying, now and in the next few days, for this matter and not just. When we talk about a model of governance, this is certainly not only confirmed in the case of Linguid. It is also confirmed in the bill that we have today. All Members have told you on several occasions, like our rapporteur, Mrs Fotou, and today in the committee. Mr. Gerapititi, but it's the same model of governance. Very important steps have been taken to support and satisfy the needs of disabled people in our country in recent years. While Greeks and Greeks who have disability problems are waiting for the next step forward, which is the even greater reinforcement of the administrative mechanism that will solve them the problems they have or will continue to solve them, you instead of taking one step forward with the establishment of a State Secretary for the Disabled, as Alexis Tsipras has recently proposed and repeatedly analysed by Mrs.Photos in her talks, take a step back. And what are you doing with this bill? You go back and build a committee, again under the Prime Minister, again in the logic that it will all operate on party criteria, as well as on this principle of accessibility, the Prime Minister will designate six of the eleven members. And as if that were not enough, you have again introduced provisions for recruitment by way of derogation from the AACC, and then it is assumed by the vote of this terrible and terrible bill that would bring the dignity of recruitment, which you brought a few weeks ago for a vote in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u33	You're about to exhaust your dentistry, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. There is a deeper problem now in the country from which Mr Voutsis, the former President of Parliament, and everything we denounce each time. However, we all need to realise that nothing happens either by accident or by the end of the day it is personal topics. All the symptoms that Greek society finds against it by a state and a government that, instead of solving problems, produces problems, are due to the fact that in the country a model of governance has been installed, which is based on opacity, anxiety, ultimately even on questioning critical fundamental rules, on which a democratic society operates, such as the possibility in other respects, freedom to express another view. So none of these problems will be solved unless we turn to the root of the problem. And the root of the problem is the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis itself and the model with which it has been running the country all this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u35	The Minister of State has asked for the floor, Georgios Gerapetristis. Then I'll give Mr. Villardo two minutes and then he'll give the floor to Mr. Scandalidis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologise for the decline in the series, but you realise that with what has been heard I could only answer. Mr. Raguss obviously didn't refer to the bill. To be honest, I didn't expect him to refer to the bill. This is a case in which, unfortunately, we are in Parliament to make a policy, which is based only on party controversy and is not intended to be real...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Floris, how much did he talk about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u38	I did not interrupt you, Mr Ragosi, and you started at 13 seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Ragosi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u40	I know, I realize that this is the case, but this cannot continue. You understand that. Well, I wasn't expecting anything. No talk about people with disabilities, no talk at all about the most bioethical, no talk about technology, no talk about the UN National Commission on Human Rights. I didn't expect anything different, I have to confess, but you've been overtaken by yourself. You could say a word about the problems, about the people who are listening to us, about the disabled people who have been fully drafted with this bill, about bioethics, about the technology that the President has been fully drafted with this bill, about the National Commission which the President has written with this legislative initiative. But we are leaving, all we care about is actually creating a party cave of controversy. Democracy is not being promoted in this way, Mr Ragosi, and I will say that the Heads will also discuss this on Thursday on the quality of democracy and public speech. I have heard, Mr Ragosi, and it is to your credit that you condemn this disgraceful "#DD - Pedophiles", the minimum point that has ever reached the level of public dialogue in our country, the identification of a whole party, of a whole section of the Greek people with paedophilia. You condemned it in your honor. But I did not hear you condemn, Mr Ragosi, the arm of your information, Mr Vaxebanes, who said the same. There's no question there, is there no provocation? Of course, it is also a disgrace to the citizen and to the level of public dialogue of this type, the identity policy, which actually wants to murder a whole part of the Greek people. It is a real disgrace and I say that on the grounds of knowledge. But I would also like to say the rest of the information you mentioned. For everything, ladies and gentlemen, it's the Final State. We've got it now. The Final State is to blame for the snow. The Final State is to blame for the fires. The Final State is to blame for the earthquakes. The Final State is responsible for the coronary. Final state and Lignade! We took it off, the mystery was solved. So it's all the state's fault. Mr Ragus mentioned this, he said something about legislative paternity. The next step is to ask me to join as a moral autocrat in the case of Linguid. Do you want this too, Mr. Ragossi? Let's talk about this, too. It is good, however, because there are people who are listening at the moment not to disorientate and put things to the right dimension. There is a social abscess, which runs the whole of society, runs sport, runs culture, runs the whole of work and, unfortunately, is due to the fact that we have all shown a great deal of tolerance. Not tolerant of the Lignadis phenomenon, tolerant of the sub-representation of women to positions of responsibility, tolerant of the fact that we did not bring forward in time - I am talking about the entire post-policy - public policies that will cure pathologies instead of being repressive and only so that they can manage damage. We are all to blame for this, but what I cannot accept is that there is a party identity to those who have these behaviours. No, it's not a privileged area of the New Democracy, Mr. Ragosi, paedophilia. If you want to tell us directly that we are pedophiles or otherwise renounce Mr Vaxebanes. But one of you can't have both. So I would like to tell you that we really have a great responsibility as a society for these pathogens and we will do what goes through our hand so that we can create a framework that encourages the disclosure of such phenomena and management in such a way that is effectively dissuasive. Let us not forget, we have the victims and victims on the initiative of today - I would like to remind you of this - of Mrs Bekatourou, which was held at an event organized by the government, Mr Ragosi. In order to unravel this unlikely hold of lawlessness, we have created the conditions for them in this government. Lignade came with this government in justice and will be tried with this government. The measures, which will be taken to ensure that criminal law is tightened up, for the whole package of public policy measures, will come with this government. Is this all random? It's not random. We now have a real current, and we must all encourage this current. Mr Ragus spoke of the responsibilities of the Staff State in the appointment of Lignade. I never make setbacks. I will not sit down and say, "You know, the previous artistic director was directly assigned by the Minister of KINAL or SYRIZA." That's not so important. It is important that there are procedures. And the procedure, which existed, was that there was an explicit exception from the law of SYRIZA, Law No.4369/2016, the Register of Executive Officers, which especially for the management bodies of artistic, cultural and sporting purposes, was possible. So the fact that this notice has come has raised a relevant issue with regard to timing. There was a long delay. As you know during the election period, all appointment procedures are suspended. He stayed an orphan and the festival. There were fast-tracking issues. However, the exemption was already provided for in 2016. But I want to say this to you to have an image. It's a small quiz. Who is the government that brought a law that for the first time, which defines a horizontal assessment procedure in place in all positions in public bodies, in public enterprises - I repeat - with the participation of the IASC? It is the Government of the New Democracy under Law 4735/20. Moreover, all the executives of bodies, bodies, public undertakings are appointed after a very strict selection procedure and we are already in this selection process for a number of bodies, including the positions of public hospital governors. So, please, I would ask for some attention to what is being said. Because you have made this in my view an intimacy connection with what is called the model of governance Mitsotakis, to say this to you: You have served as Minister of the Interior and you know it well. Have you ever thought that we would arrive today in a model of governance, which all the decisions within a ministry concerning the staff, the award of the Ministry's contracts, the final mandate to have them a secretary appointed by the administration itself and is not a political official? This was brought into force and implemented by the government. Did you think when you were a Minister of the Interior that it would be a day when all the individual administrative acts, the licenses that are the most controversial issue in terms of integrity and corruption, will not be issued by the Minister, who was the one-stater, but will be issued by the Director-General of the Ministry, by a civil servant, by a senior management officer? Have you ever thought about it? It was done with that government. Because that government is concerned first of all with leaving a deposit for the country. There is a change in democratic governance and other governments will come after us, you will probably come again. But you will at last find a model that is structured, which distinguishes politics from the administrative hierarchy and which finally breaks into the customer bond between politics and the citizen. You have often mentioned what will happen in the case of Mr Lignade. You do not, of course, adopt, but you had the opportunity from the Step of the House to transfer them to me exactly and say "I read some blogs that no research was carried out at home, not confiscated, no telephone communications have been lifted, nothing has happened" and you give up for this. I imagine, Mr Ragosisi, that you are aware of Article 26 of the Greek Constitution of 1975. You know that? You know what executive, legislative and judicial. If you want us to order the court service to enter anyone's homes, you can tell us. But these are not in our governance. We are never the ones who will go out of the Arena Ice to see how the cases are moving, to make decisions. We don't do this. If you want to tell it directly, the government will give orders to justice. You may have a private experience of this thing. We'll never do it. We have complete confidence in justice. Moreover, the Government itself has asked for an investigation to be carried out which will reach the knife to the bone with the help of the state in terms of the concentration of evidence. It will go as far as it is, but we cannot interfere with justice, because the rule of law is an objective concept, it is not what you define. You have a strange concept of rule of law. The rule of law applies to Koufantina, but it does not apply to Lignade. Kufontinas can ask for the way he's being held. I'll do a little parentheses. Is there any favoured state in which there is a right condemned to the way it is held? Have you found this in a country? Tell me. Because from the comparative research I've done academically, I haven't found anything like that. If that's the case, we should know. To have a right to ask. I want every defendant of a polyisovite to ask "I want Domoko", "I want Korydallo", "I want Aspropyrgos", "I want to be in a suite, in a single, double bed", to talk about it! But to know that the law is one and applies to everything. So I'm coming back. There is no question of intervention in justice. Justice will take its way. I would like to say one last thing to you, because it has been mentioned again and we have heard from the other sides of the House about the resignation of the Minister and a date has come back by the representative of the Officer's Vice-President. What is this, really, testifying to Mrs. Mendoni? The fact that he didn't have good communication? What was that? You referred to covert. Now tell us what a cover-up is! Did we know that man is that quality and we appointed him? Is there even one Member in this House who thinks that the Minister of Culture or someone from the government party was aware of what man did and yet appointed him? Is there anyone who knows? If there is, I want you to tell us here, but leave the hints because they poison not only politics, they poison democracy. Mrs Mendoni is a worthy Minister who has done an excellent job. It has succeeded and decommissioned huge problems in the field of culture. We see her work every day. And because we are also talking about disabled people, ask, Mr Ragosi, people with disabilities who had never visited the Acropolis, about Ms. Mendonis - ask them please - that for the first time in Greece there is a rider completely latest standard that allows our fellow citizens who have problems with mobility to go where every citizen could go! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And tell me after that, Mr Ragosi, why you are not voting on today's bill, which you have not had a single word about. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u43	Wait a minute, listen to me. Hands down. The speech for two minutes has been given to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Villiardos, then - and this has been announced - the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Scandalides, and then, Mr. Ragosi, you will be given the floor for a two-minute intervention. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are really tired, but above all they are tired of the Greeks, these false disputes between the New Democracy and the SYRIZA, when the country has so many problems that are constantly worsening, such as Turkish aggression with the "TSME", in which no one matters today, the incredible mismanagement of the pandemic, the economy, the scandals in the artistic space and so much more. As for attempting to create impressions, in relation to the Greek Solution, by the colleague of the New Democracy, he is well aware of the following: Firstly, the bill, to which he referred, came along with the ban on bankers with their only indictment. You know that very well. In other words, you have again tried, as usual, and today you are entangled with other provisions. Secondly, you also know very well that we are in favour of the stricter penalties, not the five years to be ten, and then four, or I do not know what else you have said. We, when we say life, mean life, especially for particularly burdensome acts. Just one sentence for the former President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsi. Firstly, we respect your views - we must respect them - but common sense does not respect them. Our 11-man killer cannot ask for a milder treatment. Secondly, the offsetting with the heroin you mentioned, with any possible drug dealer, does not honor you. He doesn't honor any of us. However, I do not understand why you referred to Mr Vassiliou. What does it have to do with our fellow people's killers, someone we all respect? As for Mr Gerapetti, should the government not know Mr Lignade? Is negligence also not convicted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u45	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr Scandalidis has asked for an intervention. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u46	First of all, Minister, I must tell you that, regardless of today's debate, it is clear that the government's political responsibility for the appointment of Linguidis is clear, objective and unfortunately not. This is a political fact, but I will not stay in it. I do not know if it is an exceptional coincidence, we are talking today about human rights, at the same time that these rights are being circumvented. They are being destroyed by the appalling acts of people holding any kind of power and are being released to the public by a fragile movement of social liberation that does not ask for political guides, but calls for a joint support of his fair demands. They are destroyed by public prosecutors of the media and in particular by the uncontrolled status of the websites, which drag down and unpunishedly spread persons and things. They are being destroyed by political prosecutors denounce charges and make decisions preventing justice from taking its distance and orderly to take its decisions, creating a climate of confusion, distrust and disorientation. Of course, dear friends of SYRIZA cannot be associated with Kufontina's right to change prison. It is another classic problem that exists today in Greek society. In this climate, the Prime Minister comes and calls for the day after tomorrow for a debate on the quality of democracy and the way political dialogue takes place. I fear, Minister, that we have just watched the start of the battle that we are about to see tomorrow, Thursday, between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. At a crucial moment in the course of the country, what was lacking in public life is to divide ourselves into defenders and prosecutors of victims, to separate ourselves again for the amount of penalties that we decide on crimes, to separate ourselves from how we defend human rights. Neither the style nor the spirit of this controversy honors the national Parliament at this critical moment. So how will this debate be tomorrow, Mr President? It frightens me and the Prime Minister, who took the initiative, as well as the Heads of the parties, is a huge responsibility to me. The Change Movement, at this critical moment, as always lately, will stand up to the circumstances, to defend its democracy and institutions and, most importantly, to take a step forward so as not to return to the shadow of yesterday. That is our responsibility, and that is our attitude. I hope tomorrow that the debate will not take place in this atmosphere, because it will be another tragedy in democracy itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Raguss, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u48	Mr Gerapetritis, first, you spoke less about the bill, which is almost nothing, zero seconds, than your parliamentary representative throughout his entire speech. Secondly, I didn't tell you to order the interrogators how to do their job. I gave you the opportunity to place yourself on these complaints that have seen the light of publicity, and I wanted, Mr Gerapetiti, to do exactly what has happened, to place yourself on record how you have just been put into complaints that no home-to-house investigation has been carried out, and that there has not even been a confiscation of his cell phone. As you have judged, you have been placed and recorded. Third. There is a lot you can say about Mrs Méndonis as to how great a minister she is. But one thing you have made sure you didn't say, Mr. Gerapititi. Why did Mrs Méndonis not bring to justice himself when she saw the light of publicity the shocking interview of "Nikos S." and why did she not have the political power to show to the Greek people that she was going down to Lignade, but he was falsifyingly showing him that he resigned for personal reasons? You were given the opportunity to disprove us, and you did not, Mr Gerapititi. You did not deny that the provisions of the Bernardakis Law for a public international invitation to serve as the artistic director for the National Theatre were abolished by your own legislation. You did not deny that, with an amendment from Mendoni, the invitations that had already been made to the national air were abolished. One last thing, Mr President. Mr. Gerapetritis, I understand your indignation about “ #ND - pedophiles”, honestly. But I can't stand right now, where we're talking, with a big question, whether you're being honest or hypocritical, if I don't get your answer from now on, Mr. Gerapetritis. With the same intensity, with the same sensitivity as you are complaining about this hashtag now, take the floor and place yourself on the careless vulgarity of your colleague, Mr Chrysochide, that the SYRIZA government burned hundreds of people in Matti and if you condemn him and if you are currently putting yourself against this vulgarity that Mr Chrysochoidis said, then I will acknowledge you that you are completely honest. If not, Mr Gerapetite, you are only selectively sensitive when it suits you. Because since you are now getting the floor if you do not distance yourself from this vulgarity, then it means that it expresses all your government and above all Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Ragosi, you're the master of settling. I'm not going to go into a logic to offset anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u51	It's more hairy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u52	I'm very sorry about the quality of speech. Become inside this sacred space a demagogue. How did Mr Chrysochoid's statement come about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u53	How did it come up?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u54	What is the relationship with the issue we are discussing? Tell me what the relationship is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u55	When you understand, then I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u56	Let me tell you. Let me answer, as Mr Ragus said. This also refers to you, Mr Scandalides, who I was surprised to hear that there was a cover-up operation. Because Greece - I will say it once and not come back - is the rule of law and is the rule of law for all, we do what the Constitution and the law impose. The complaint to which Mr Ragus referred was made on 6 February. There was anonymity for both the mortal and the victim. There was no name. However, precisely for reasons of sensitivity, Mrs Mendoni asked Mr Lignade for his resignation, which was submitted a few hours later. So what's the cover, Mr. Ragossi? A few hours after an interview, which was - I repeat - anonymous for the victim, anonymous for the perpetrator, Mrs Mendoni came and asked for resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u57	You're lying about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u58	Please very much. I didn't interrupt you. He therefore asked for Mr Lignade's resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u59	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Ragosi, you haven't interrupted. Let the Minister speak. Why are you irritating?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u61	Bring the statement he made that night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Ragossi, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u63	Mrs. Fotio, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u64	To end, Mr President, these retaliations to talk about the bill as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u65	You're right. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u66	I would like it to be recorded in the Minutes that she described what I said as "false" that the resignation was requested by Mrs Mendoni. I want it to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u67	And I challenge you to bring Mrs. Mendoni's statement. Of course it's recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u68	Ms. Mendoni called for the resignation of Mr. Lignade. But do you know what our difference is? Our difference is that we, because we have an institutional perception of things, would never get Mr Lignade to condemn him that day. We wouldn't expose him to the way you might otherwise. What you are asking for today is why we did not pass it through while there was still no complaint. That's what you're asking. This was not the case, however, because Greece, at least with that government, retains the constitutional presumption of the rule of law. Mr Lignade retired as being due and was taken a few days after justice, but we did not pass him through, we did not drop him in the 'dogs', we did not go to court to ask for sanctions to be imposed on him. We followed the path that the Constitution imposes. If for you the Constitution and the law are unnecessary obstacles, we should know. But I will tell you for the last time that this government's mandate for home-to-house investigations is never going to make calls. We forgot that in the 2019 elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was first put on the list to speak, I said that I would be able to get vaccinated, because today I am being vaccinated with the 'ASTRAZENECA' vaccine and I am very happy about it. But now I'm about to miss the date. Fortunately, however, I'll be in a hurry. I have heard nothing say, on the occasion of this bill on biotechnology and technology, about the exemplary way in which the vaccinations are carried out in our country. I don't think that in Greece's history, it's been such a business so impeccable. And I don't want to credit it to the government. Oh, no. I believe it in the country. The country is conducting the vaccination process impeccably, which is the only way to overcome the pandemic and get back out alive and standing in real and normal life. And that should at some point be recognised for our own good and for the good of our country, that something is changing and changing for the better. I do not want to talk about all these issues that have been heard, but unfortunately they oblige me. I had prepared another speech in my mind and other things I have to tell you now. First of all, because I heard something about the cover-up and about Lignade, is there even a Greek, and on the side of SYRIZA, and on all sides of the House, which in 2019, when Lignade was appointed an artistic director of the National Theatre, did he believe that he did not deserve as a director and actor and as an artistic figure to be an artistic director of the National Theatre? Was there even one? There wasn't. Did you know he was a pedophile and a rapist and anything else, Mr. Lignade? If you knew, why didn't you say so? Why did you remember that after all these years? I personally did not know that, and I suppose Mrs Mendoni didn't know about it either, nor did Mr. Gerapitris know it, nor did anyone when he was appointed to do so. And when this case broke, his government asked for his resignation and left this post. Do you understand what the word "covering" means? Covering is that you know something - Greek we're talking about - and on purpose you hide it or you're trying to hide it. This means ‘reflecting’. Do you have any such evidence about this? Of course you don't. But, you like to say words. You like to create tensions, because you have no other opposition agenda. Fortunately, I have heard Mr Ragosi - and I am pleased to say that he has said that he rejects this 'ND - paedophiles'. But unfortunately, there are also SYRIZA executives who have been pulled into a line of Chios and Vaxevani and I am sorry. I believe that this logic is the most prosperous one I have heard in the thirty-five years of working as a professional journalist with public life. I've never heard of that. I understand that there can be excesses and there can be conflicts that are too strong in politics. That's what happens. But so low, identifying an entire party of pedophiles, uh, it's unthinkable. It's crazy, it's incomprehensible and it's slut, deep slut. The criminals of this kind - pedophiles, rapists - do not belong to any party. They are not representatives of any party. They're criminals. They're monsters. They have nothing to do with the parties. And it is wrong to put such arguments in the party dialogue and political dialogue. It's a shame to put them on. I would also like to say a few words about what I have heard from the former President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsi, whom I have known thirty years since he was not even a Member of Parliament and who has always been a member of the Left and which I, in complete disagreement with him, have always respected and always loved him. He said yesterday about the operation at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, following the invitation of the Prytanios to take over the university's central administration in police, that it is an insult to democracy. Dear Mr. Voutsi, do you know what is an insult to democracy? If the police refused to go and get out of this building, they'd take over. Then we would be dismantling the rule of law. Then it would mean that any organised minority may violate the law in ignorance of university self-government officials. All you say is that you're locked up in a gross past that's over. Yeah, that's never happened before in universities. I must say, it's never happened before. It wasn't all these years. It's a good thing. It's good to have the law finally applied. Democracy means law enforcement. It's the police's duty to enforce the law. I'm not a lawman, like Ploris or Gerapitris, but we have common sense. The only one who has the right to exercise physical violence within a rule of law is the police and only to enforce the law. They are self-evident concepts, which unfortunately have never been self-evident in Greece. It is time to do what is happening in all the civilized nations of the world. I want to finish the Koufantina case, because she's hurting me, too. Because all of a sudden - as Thanos Plearis said earlier - all of us New Democracy MPs do not know whether we will return our night home with the Koufontina case and say it openly. This is not a political issue with Koufontina. Of course, in a rule of law such as Greece, even the convicted 11 Kufontina homicides have rights. There is no man who has no rights in Greece. Only a few choose who have rights and no rights. We believe - and this part always proves it - that it respects the rights of all people, regardless of race, sexual orientation and party coexistence. Koufantinas has rights. If he considers that his rights are violated in a rule of law, such as Greece, there are the courts. Why isn't he being sent to the courts to vindicate him if he's right? If she's wrong, then how does she expect her justice? By pushing and blackmailing a government with a hunger strike to get him to get his own right? It is not in a rule of law, in a democracy and in a free country that I am happy to live and my children and the future generations will grow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Now is the reason for SYRIZA's MP - a Progressive Alliance, Ms. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I too was prepared for a different speech, but I would like to make some comments on the position of the Minister. First of all, Mr Minister, because you have shown yourself to question this, the Members of Parliament have full freedom of expression from this step and choose every time how they are placed and what they will say, of course, the members of the opposition. The second is that we do not legislate here in a vacant capacity. We are legislating within a specific political, social, economic framework and, of course, this draft law comes and we consider it and are - and our criticism is made - in the context of overall governance, the style, the political and the way in which power is exercised by the Government of New Democracy. That's for granted. The third thing I would like to say - why are you not addressing laurels, neither in this Chamber, nor in the Greek people who are watching us and judging us - is that you cannot say that the first Republic in 2020 has put the ADP into the crisis of heads. You cannot say that you are proud that you have placed ministerial secretaries in the Ministries, because I would remind you very simply that Mr Mitsotakis as Minister of Administrative Reform in 2014 shortly before the elections by an administrative act replaced and appointed all the heads of public administration without crises. Let us remember, of course, both redundancies and availability. Let me remind you that in 2016, Mr Vernardakis, who was first established in our country by an institutional framework that ensured the judgments of the Heads of State and the Legal Council of State, as well as the institution of the secretaries of the Ministries who would come out of merital procedures by a special council of the AACC that you abolished by the Law of the Minister of State, as soon as you took over power. Let me remind you that the SYRIZA executive register had been provided for by the law of SYRIZA, in order to precisely by merital procedures to appoint all the hospital managers and we saw how you made the administrations of the hospitals and all the choirs that we lived after the 2019 elections, both in terms of public enterprises and the CECO. All this has been abolished. So don't come here and tell us that it's not about the New Democracy Staff State thing from the bill we're talking about today. This has been said by our rapporteur, Mrs Fotou, and by Mr Ragosi as our parliamentary representative. Why do you not operate in a vacant way, much more a bill which the three national committees, the National Accessibility Authority and the reform of the two committees are right within the logic of your State of Staff, which is, first, the control by the Prime Minister, second partyisation in terms of composition and participation, and third post-calls, post-calls and recruitments and funding management through awards and opaque procedures. Because of course here we are discussing how the New Democracy is governed, what are the characteristics of this governance that the Greek people are experiencing above all? Because the issue is ultimately the Greek people what they are experiencing from this government. Remember the Final State and how it managed a heavy weather that we knew it would come and how it sunk in snow and then a blame game, which still continues between the various government and the region and the OSCE? Remember and speak here in general how the Final State is coming to deal with the issues of productive and social actors, which are currently suffering and the various declarations of Ministers that prove you are cut off from reality? Should we consider and refer, as the former President of Parliament quite rightly said before, about authoritarianism, the peculiarities that you everywhere come to adopt from the law on marches to the law on education? We saw how authoritarianism and repression occurred yesterday at the Aristotle University against young students, young children, who had made a peaceful move. This is the image of your own governance. It is not regardless of what we are talking about, and it is not up to us here to be sealed on how we sit. Of course, what has been said and we all here agree and say - and I will repeat what has been said by our Parliamentary representative - is that we clearly and clearly reject any party factions with paedophilia and anything. Alas. From there on, however, you cannot come and tell us that there is no responsibility for this government, there is no responsibility for canceling a notice that was your overall logic at that time that the appointment procedure had to be changed. You did the same with the Transparency Authority as to how you come to appoint the executives. Clearly then you couldn't know a year and a half ago what charges the artistic director will face. Your understanding, however, was a perception of your State of Staff that you abolished the notice. Also, when the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture has been silent for twenty days while all this debate is taking place, it is clear that here there was an attempt to degrade and pragmatise. That's what was said here. It is not all of this, therefore, regardless of what we are discussing. I got out of the bill, too, but it's all connected. I'm going to be particularly focused on the National Accessibility Authority. I believe, Minister, that you are finally coming and building an authority which, while having all these features, has control by the Prime Minister, the posters and all that we have criticised you, is at the same time falling short of what it needs today to address the problem of supporting people with disabilities. Because after a greeting that was the National Action Plan, one would at least expect you to come in and introduce an administrative authority that can really coordinate, make decisions, implement a policy. None of this is done with the specific Accessibility Authority you come and introduce. And much more - and I close with this - when in practice, on the one hand, you have not supported the disabled and the people who have really had disability problems, nor have you given them priority for vaccinations, nor have you supported them financially and labour, as you had to do, and as you have proposed, much more when you are implementing the 'Pissaridis' project which comes to put the principle of functionality, which at the heart harms the need of a social state that supports people with disabilities, give them dignity in life, work and the necessary support. For all these reasons, because you wonder, we are voting against this bill and its options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou. Please prepare the Step in order for New Democracy MP Babis Papadimitriou to take the floor and immediately thereafter will the Member of the Change Movement Mr Nadia Giannakopoulou take the floor. Then, for you to know the programming, the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, will take the floor and immediately after the State Secretary, Mrs. Domna Michailidou. Here, Mr Papadimitriou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. One word was enough to avoid the country living next to what is revealed and which is very important. Because the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is at the moment to keep the mouth of those who have found the way to the complaint. Women, young people, homosexuals, may tomorrow denounce those who abused them, those who terrorized them. This is the important thing with a second time to stay away from justice, asking for only one thing. Make it quick. Because it is justice that will safeguard the right of everyone who is denounced - as serious as it may be - to have the right to reply and possibly to prove his innocence if he is found innocent. That is our duty. In this respect, I think that the initiative of the President of the Government to bring this matter to the House is a leading moment which I think - and I hope, and I hope, tomorrow, we will also be here to see it and judge it - will in particular be followed by the citizen and the people. We must discuss everything here. The decisions must be taken here. This is where the direction and pulse of the nation must be given. Well, a word. A word was enough to avoid the north. A word on a phone call, I imagine, that takes place during the day. A word. ‘Cut it off!’. That's what Tsipras should have told Vaxevani. Instead of the Parliamentary spokesman of the Civilian Operations to say that "since he saw the light of publicity...". Oh, no? We don't know when there's publicity and when isn't? We do not know those who have suffered it - I personally - that the '#skai_xeftiles', of course, would be followed by '# nd', etc.Huh? All of you allowed them, cultivated them, worshiped them because they brought you to power and thought they could keep you in opposition. For the north you have a direct responsibility. If it weren't for the fascite called Chios to get you out of the difficult position, because you were finally forced after the headline of "MAKELEIO" to gather a little, you would have gone even further down. That saved you. That was your assistant. I come to take an example from today's bill, for which I would like to thank Mr Gerapetti, who has brought it, and I wonder why he will be voted against in some respects. Because it is fundamentally a better organization at the high level, at the Prime Minister's level, which should take the initiatives and should have consultancy and advisory structures, known to everyone and not, of course, to be those - who could be excellent, I do not see others. This is where we'll know exactly what's going on. But I take the floor from the National Committee on Human Rights, which is an old committee in which work has been done and you have tried, ladies and gentlemen, to intervene in such a way as to reflect your ideological standards rather than the universal human beings and those that have been approved by international authorities such as the United Nations. Right now in the way you act, I have said it publicly and I will repeat it in the Chamber with the President's permission, precisely supporting the north and you have exterminated basic people's rights in despair. Because it is the right of everyone, especially the one who can. With one hand you put representatives of the LGBTK, with the other hand, but here you are interested in politics - because it was February 11, Mrs Fotio, I remember it because it was my celebration - Mr Tsipras spoke in Parliament, he mentioned the name of Mr Lignade without saying anything. Then it had become known. Because before you spoke, it wasn't known. It was what whispered the Kolonaki, what we whispered among ourselves. That does not mean that no one knew and that Mrs. Mendoni had to take a head on this basis. What you're saying, Mrs. Mendoni handled them perfectly. I'm not saying he has the experience of handling the communal piece or the politician. Of course. She is not being asked to have this experience. But he handled them perfectly and fairly. He wasn't raped. In this way, defending a person's right to happen first, to give an answer, and secondly, to defend himself if necessary. So you put a representative of the LGBTKI - and you did well - and at the same time in this mess these days, you did not think that within the north the first ones affected are homosexuals. That's not what went through your mind either. Your alliances are always formal and hasty. I therefore think, Minister, that on the matter of the National Accessibility Authority, I hope one of the first jobs it will do is a large campaign toward the municipalities, to the authorities, to the institutions of the state, to make something simple for us citizens. Coming here, I count every morning how many cars are parked in pedestrian crossings. A few days ago we took an initiative with the HOPOKABOS organization, with mentally disabled children, carrying out a COVID test - which children keep doing - and I had the opportunity to see them. They are even many of them athletes, because that is the goal of their club and good! These kids are afflicted by us. So the first work of the National Accessibility Authority, I hope, Mr. Gerapetritis, will be to remind us of the obligation we have in our fellow human being. Because we live together, live next door, and why we love them. I'm done with one thing. I would never like to mention it, I would not like these tents to come back to me and I regret that it is coming back these days in the way it comes back. One obligation is that the state - and Mr Scandalidis said so - against Kufontina: to keep him alive to continue serving his sentence. And I do not want to mention it here, because we have all suffered - those who have - threats, direct threats, threats to us, to our family. But I will never forget, because I saw one of the assassins of "17 November" four minutes after listening to the shooting. And it is not right in this Chamber to come and talk about people's rights and to forget the blood that has been spilled. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u75	We are also grateful for the consistency in time. Mr Nadia Giannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot start my speech without talking about what we are experiencing these days. We are discussing a very serious draft law, but in a sick, charged climate. Complaints of the victims of paedophiles, rapes, sexual harassment and other harassment are very important and create a social movement. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, we see all this being used in a delicate party game, which hurts democracy and prevents the sober debate on how to deal with it. We are facing an infinite phenomenon of innumerable vulnerability, which none of us can tolerate and which the whole political world should isolate. We cannot allow the conversion of "Me too" into a scandal, conspiracy, toxic game. At the moment, we are all responsible and each individual has a great deal of responsibility. The suffering of the victims cannot be included in a party voting stock exchange. The party-making of this debate, ladies and gentlemen, firstly affects the victims, firstly prevents other victims from coming out and talking openly in this climate and ultimately harms the credibility of the entire political world. We must therefore all contribute to opening up all our mouths, breaking the abscess, the scalpel of justice to reach everywhere and in depth, exemplarily punishing all the guilty and considering the dimensions of these phenomena as a whole in Greek society, so that we can make the necessary amendments, the necessary reforms in the Criminal Code, in which, unfortunately, many of these crimes were significantly reduced in the previous government. Let's see the changes that we need to make in education to get children who are going to be much stronger within them, with much more confidence and power to say 'no' and, of course, the necessary changes with the creation of a code of conduct and conduct where they don't exist. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two quite different things. One is the political criticism of the mistakes and omissions, of the clear political responsibilities of Ms. Mendoni, who should know, Minister, why he was released from the Drama School of the National Theatre some years ago by Mr. Lignade, had to know why he had been expelled from the "IMO" a few years ago. It also has political responsibility, of course, because instead of following a notice, it has chosen to plant a chosen person. So that is a clear political responsibility, which should have been taken over and resigned. However, this is another thing, ladies and gentlemen, and the mud in the fan, obesity and democracy, which unfortunately we have seen very lately, are quite different. It's time of responsibility. It's a time of responsibility for the whole political world. So let us show that such serious issues are not just a matter of micro-groupings for a few 'brows', but that we really assume our responsibilities to give our children a better society where there will be no room for such behaviour. I now come to the present draft law of the Ministry of State. And yes, Minister, of course I will choose and choose as a Change Movement to talk about this important bill. We are therefore discussing the establishment of the National Accessibility Authority and we welcome its creation, as it guarantees dignity, the effective integration of people with disabilities on the basis of the National Action Plan, and above all it meets a permanent time-consuming request from the National Disability Confederacy. We are also discussing the reform of the existing operating framework of the National Committee for Human Rights and the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology, established by the PASOK governments. You know that well. PASOK were the committees with Law 2667/1998. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that concerns the core of these committees today is more timely than ever, especially with the restrictions that have been put in the course of dealing with the pandemic. We all know that human rights are being tried every day to achieve the ultimate objective, which is to protect public health. The most characteristic examples that concern us as a society are about the mandatory vaccination of health workers and, of course, the processing and vaccination certificate against the coronary from the European Union. They are debates which are very serious and we should look at them with due regard. These are issues which, in the difficult times that we are going through, are of special interest and are very concerned about. Questions are relentless. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of the right to choose to put the lives of people who enter a hospital and those who have a duty to protect public health at risk? How allowable is the refusal by hospitals of vaccination since they can act as bodies in health structures? Why is this refusal so far against the certificate of vaccination, which for Greece as a tourist country plays a huge role so that tourism can be opened safely? And what will the states do, as a whole, if the major airlines internationally put themselves as a prerequisite for traveling a certificate of vaccination tomorrow? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. The issues are big and we need a serious, structured debate, not yesterday, now, Minister. I'm closing up with the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology. It is a very important issue to modernise and adapt it to the needs of the new era, which I must admit I would expect you to do with even greater bravery, Minister, because you know today that a new form of power, which Mr Kaminis mentioned in his first speech to the committees, the so-called'spiritual capitalism' by the companies of 'SILICON VALLEY', 'MICROSOFT', 'FACEBOOK' etc. This is distinguished by the accumulation of knowledge and data, of personal data of users, which most often operate out of jurisdiction and democratic supervision. It is also mentioned by Sosana Zubov, who is an expert on the subject. It is therefore important - and we recognise it - that during the draft law you have taken very seriously into account the comments made by both parties and, in particular, the proposals made by the Change Movement. We have pointed out and pointed out by Mr Kamines, our rapporteur, the negative points to which we cannot attach the necessary emphasis and have to do, unfortunately, with what you are always doing, by posting, transferring, compensation, always out of process. We are voting in favour of this bill, Minister. It is important and the creation of the principle of accessibility, a consistent demand for the disabled movement, and the reform of the functioning of the two other principles. We would, however, expect even greater braveness, particularly with regard to matters of personal data protection, in a constantly changing digital world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. It is now up to the Parliamentary spokesman of the 25th, Mr Claus Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the most serious topicality, I will choose to start my speech, Mr. and Mrs. Minister, from a message I received in the Facebook messenger - I am new on Facebook, a oxymomile compared to my age. It was a very touching message, and I think it concerns us all here, and I would like to read it to you, it is very small. It says the message "Good evening, my name is Maria. I am a schoolteacher in summer high school, a school teacher with a dream, such as many summer school students in our country, to be able to have a place in Greek universities, a dream that with a bill and an introduction base is shattered in front of our eyes. Employees have the right to education and education, and no one can deprive them of that. But, with the minimum basis for introduction - you know, Mrs Kerameo's recent bill - we are now being called upon to give unequal, unequal battle with morning schools. And so our introduction to tertiary education is becoming almost impossible. So insidiously - says Maria, not me - they're throwing us out and closing the door to education and they have no right to do that. We want back the rights we had in the summer for tertiary education. I'm Maria, I'm Sofia, I'm Yannis, I'm Thanasis. We're a lot of people, but our voice isn't enough to hear. I ask you - Maria writes to me - to become our voice. I ask you not to allow it. Thank you." I too, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ask you, in my turn, to be all of us, you and me, the voice of this Maria, to call Mrs Keramos, to meet her and ask her to think again. Because these children, these children, which I most honor my own, the child, who goes to a school and doesn't have to work all morning and go to school at night and read until dawn - which is why I honor these children - they have the right to become scientists. They have that right. These children, you know, Ministers, are children who have no voices in a society that you - I mean your extradition - have built. And these children are the same children, which Mrs Keramos actually excludes from "social mobility" - what a beautiful concept - by putting enormous classic, purely classic obstacles to their education. They are the same children that Mr Chrysochoidis is suppressing violence and brutality when they dare to claim self-evident, that is, public and free education, dignity, a future and freedom. By the way, you only did this yesterday at the Aristotelian University of Thessaloniki, where - be careful, Mr. Gerapetritis - to be honest, because sometimes it starts to make me feel that your overall prolongation is afflicted with the truth. I saw the state TV report. It's obviously not Mera25. Did you see any "blacks" yesterday at the Aristotle University? Did you see any people flying molotov? Have you seen any people attacking MATs? Did you see any people bothering a dean? We have all seen a Greek police vehicle coming in, behind being two degrees of MAT and pre-collecting, pushing, and hitting, and opening students who had the academic right to disagree and protest. They were protesting. Nothing has happened until the police get hurt. So here, we have the first sample, in our opinion, of the application of the latter, always in our opinion, your legislature for universities and in relation to the presence of the police at universities. But how, ladies and gentlemen, can all these children have a voice from the summer high school, our best children, what they work, who have such a warmth for education, such a warmth for improvement, for self-improvement, who work while the other children, our children, play or navigate in the dive? So how can these children have voices in a collective fantasy which you have built? And with 'you' I mean the huge New Democracy party, the most huge part of PASOK, now called KINAL, but some of course call it PASOK again. Decide what you want to be called, whether it's rewarding, that is, PASOK, the past, or whether it's a reward. But you have to decide, and we know how to deal with you. So how can these children have a voice? How should they have, when in the collective fantasy that you have built in the last thirty - one years, which civilization do you all represent? In culture, of course, this well-known medium-term boulder of the private channels of oligarchy, which, as a sarcasm, extended almost to all areas of our culture. Everywhere you meet the same, sexism, patriarchy, racism, phantomism, homophobia, nationalism, xenophobia and, above all, subjection unresolved to the "requirements" and in many introductorys, that is to say, those that your Mints define and name as such, as "requirers". I ask you all to become Maria's voice together today. Maria, Thanasis, Yannis, Gregory have the right to be able to enter the universities. They must not be taken away from this right that they are working while they are studying in our secondary education. They have the right. You know very well what Greek society has been watching lately. I don't have to tell you. He watches a thriller, where an unprecedented vulgarity emerges and ends in rape, which we may see later ends in murder. We're all shocked. We're all emblems, and we've all stayed open, even though there's been rumors and we've all known them for a long, long time. However, I feel first of all that I need to remind the House here in the Greek Parliament that many of us have fallen victim to all kinds of harassment, all violence and even rape. Many of us have, in any way, a hurry. And I mean artists. But all of us, apart from me, Mr. Skourico and someone else I saw here, are hungry a whole year, all the artists, because there is no room for them in your designs. This is a permanent crime, which affects, among other things, Mrs Mendoni. Because Mrs. Mendoni has been telling us a year now that she can't understand who we are, she can't trace us, and she certainly tells us, unregulatedly, a year now that it's our fault that she can't see us, because we were working with black money. And I'm asking you the simple question: do you know anyone who wants to work without medical care and without getting his pension from work? No, it's no good for the worker if you haven't understood it yet in the Greek Parliament, black work. His parasitic employer is of interest. Ms. Mendoni has left, not my industry, a hundred to twenty to forty thousand people working in culture and art, hungry a whole year with ridiculous pretexts that she can't track them down. I repeat from this Step forward that we are officially twelve thousand Greek actors, have been helped by your aid - the gruesome pentacosarios are your help - two thousand of them, 80% -85% have not seen and lived, I do not know how, from charity, tipping, the manna that Jesus Christ throws from heaven? I do not know how my colleagues do and live, but they do live in a paradoxical way. Now, you will allow me, Mr. Gerapitrito, to bring you back to class. You know you're like me, because you're civilized and you're a professor - if I'm not cheating - Constitutional law. Mr Gerapetititi, I have to tell you that by mistake you have informed our House of some things a little while ago. I'm here to restore order and restore the truth. The covert attempt by your Government, the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis, through Mrs. Mendoni, is undeniably revealed by two key dates, ladies and gentlemen. These dates are February 8th and February 19th, Mr Gerapetti. What happened, then, on February 8th? On February 8, the first last name law was published against Dimitris Lignade, which was filed three days ago, on February 5. However, your Minister, Mrs Mendoni, has continued - and it seems to me that you, I imagine, by mistake, will continue with incomplete information today - for eleven consecutive days to accuse us - of listening to us! - as human beings who have questioned Mr Lignade's presumption of innocence and who risked questioning the rule of law, which you have established in the country, just because we dared to ask for his expulsion for a month ago. For eleven days following the statement of this first complaint - all of this is not disputed, there is in the prosecutors the statement by Mr Lignades - the Minister spoke of anonymous complaints and rumours. Only, ladies and gentlemen, these were not anonymous complaints and rumours. It was, on the contrary, a last name lawsuit. On 19 February, finally, Ms. Mendoni gave a press conference, where she presented herself to all of us as a alleged victim of deception, committing, at the same time, a new, major, great, vast, atom, as she stated remarkably, good time, in front of the cameras, that she was "deceived by a highly qualified actor with hypocritical art high". Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking at you, as I am used to, all in the eyes, without discrimination, and I ask you: is it ever possible for you as Minister of Culture of any country, any banana country - I do not want to say any country, why am I going to blame it - to confuse the hypocritical art, the art of Thespes and the Cathedral of Milesius, to confuse this art that was born in Greece, with the art of fraud and deception? This Minister must resign for this reason alone because he is uneducated. We cannot let our Minister for Culture have no education. You know well that the main object in arts is - and it has always been, since Thespey's time - the search for truth. And a minister cannot hide behind this ridiculous argument. Because if he hides behind this ridiculous argument, we will reach the ridiculous continuation of thinking that leads to this argument, which you know what it is? Listen to her. That from now on, anyone who governs will have to hire at the National Theatre only atlantic, ruthless actors. He'll be sure so they'll be good kids, they won't be able to catch a fool, showing him a face like good actors. So take atlantes, those who don't tell them about the National Theatre, so they can't deceive you. Because that's exactly what you told us. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] I'm on it. So, if we accept the view of the deceased, Mrs Mendonis, that Dimitris Lignades, with his excellent hypocrisy, messed up and appointed him. Now, right now, today when she understood her mistake, an apology is no more than anyone in the government of the finest? Apology shouldn't have said? "I have been rid of it, and I have loaded it on you." It's spreading you around the world. You have one - according to the indictment, I hope that all of this is conspiracy - on the way to the rape of minors a year almost now for the director of your National Theatre. "I apologise for exposing you to the world community." He should have the elementary gum to do it. Let me make this clear to you: we are not asking, Mr Gerapetti, and Mrs Medina Ortega, the Merra25, the dismissal and resignation of Mrs Mendoni. Mrs Vozeberg has been asking for her from yesterday on television, and Mr Bogdanos is asking for her. These are your escorts. They're asking for Ms. Mendoni's resignation. We, Mera25, are going to surprise you. We are not asking for the resignation of Ms. Mendoni. Do you know why we're not asking for Ms. Mendoni's resignation right now? We are not asking for it because a huge, palliative, embraced by all the Greek society, over-the-movement calls for this. We in Mera25 don't rob movements. We are actively involved in this. We are giving our poor powers to a movement that is insufferable, a people's movement, a movement of culture. It's an old-fashioned movement, and we won't smoke it in any way. And I conclude, Mr President - I will not abuse your politeness - by telling you the following, ladies and gentlemen, of the Couple, Mr Minister, and my dear Minister: we are asking you directly, by looking into the eyes, to stand up and leave all of you at the moment. And we ask you to do this, Minister, for you to move my head and I know how noble you are, for reasons far beyond Mrs. Mendoni or a cover-up of Mr. Mitsotakis. We ask you for what you have done in democracy and our freedom for the almost two years that you have been ruling. I look at you in the eyes, Mr. Gerapetritis, and I remind you that we came on 16 November to the Great Maximos - a delegation of SYRIZA, a delegation of KINAL and we - and we told you that a crazy Minister said that he would break the Constitution and if, tomorrow, seven MPs of Mera25 walked from the Greek Parliament to the American Embassy on their own, he would stop them from walking. And you told me, looking at me in the eyes, "This will not be done under any circumstances, you are MPs and you can walk wherever you want throughout the territory." Do you remember what happened the next day? We didn't walk. We were caught by Mr Chrysochoid's police forces. We therefore abdicate you for the democracy that you have brought, we accuse you of beating MPs of the Communist Party, we urge you to pre-convene Vice-President of this House. We also accuse you of the collapsed economy, because you are permanently subjected to a hostile troika that is not at all interested in recovering our economy and saying 'yes' to everything, we ask you for a pandemic where twelve months later you have not hired - it is unlucky, apologies for the expression - a permanent doctor in the National Health System. We've been through the six thousand dead, you've hired thousands of sanitaries and hundreds of doctors who will sit for six months or for a year and there's no shame in anyone about all this? We also call on you for your disgraceful Banking Code, which will bring fifty thousand first homes and families living in them in eviction in the first half of the time we spend. We ask you for your absolute submission to the red loans. We are indemnifying you for the 12 billion you are giving the predators every day with the guarantee agreement you have made on red loans. Most of all, however, you must all go because, almost two years ago, you are now beinghaved not as a civilian staff of a free country, but as an employee of parasitic oligarchs whose only aim is to be present here and in your ministries, to put them on the road to the pillaging of the last value dictates left in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u79	Finish, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u80	I inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that it is not us, but the Greek people, who have made the mistake of pushing it too much - our student youth and all the others who are closing their shops now with the pandemic by hundreds or by thousands or by tens of thousands - are going to overthrow you. And we will be such a little, but cute, component in your overthrow and historically proud that we participated in it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u81	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u82	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u83	It is only for seconds, Mr President, to restore the situation, because Mr Gregoryiades in his ostrich, considering that we are in a vote of confidence in the government and not in a bill, has called for the resignation of the government. There are procedures. If you want to table a motion of censure against the government, it will be very welcome. In any case, your speech had no evidence of the bill, but it was generally about the government's policy. Only one thing you will allow me to say, because there are things in life that are completely objective. On 5 February the complaint was filed, Mr Lignade resigned on 6 February. I don't know what the days are going through. Unless you join Mr Ragosi, that we should be on an open line with justice, give orders and receive information. I repeat - for restoring the truth - because you mentioned falsehood and I ask you very much - you are a decent man - to withdraw it, I am sure: on 5 February the complaint is filed, on 6 February Mrs Mendoni is asking for and receives Mr Lignade's resignation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u84	You're lying, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Don't start this now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u87	Here, what do you want, Mrs. Fotio? You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u89	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u90	It was said it was a false thing I said. I didn't say anything false. The Minister - by mistake, I imagine - changed my words. I have not talked about Mr Lignade, Minister. I talked about Mrs. Mendoni. I said exactly - and it is written in the Minutes a minute ago - that for eleven consecutive days this Minister - whom you continue to support and it is not for you to support, everyone else is interested in staying a Minister in your government for eleven days then he continued to pretend that he knows nothing. Eleven days later, he went out and said that Mr. Lignade is a very dangerous man. When Mr. Lignade had a lawsuit, wasn't he a dangerous man? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u91	But he quit! How many times are we gonna say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u92	You're saying a lie! But he didn't ask for the resignation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u93	We continue with the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mrs Domna Michailidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity, it is a real pity, because there is no real debate here today at the National Delegation for this bill, no one! The Minister said so before. And it is a pity, because all the bodies involved in this bill have embraced it. This bill provides among many others for the establishment of the National Accessibility Commission and is another very important step towards fulfilling the role and obligations of the state towards our fellow citizens with disabilities. Today's debate on this very important legislative initiative by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetti, is a good opportunity for us to present what has already been done, as Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs. I am very surprised to see that, when it comes to disability issues, it is surrounded by a wrapping - if you like - of truth. So I listened very carefully to what you both discussed in the committee, but also to the plenary today. I will begin with Mr Lambroulis' proposals - although I do not see anyone from the Communist Party here right now - that is, the absence of our actions on early intervention and an early diagnosis of cases relating to the autistic spectrum. There our interventions are for the first time as a very substantial state - indeed very substantial - and this on two very specific fronts. One, since for the first time as a state we are dealing with a kindergarten programme. Until now, decades, our country and the state have only dealt with the part of the staffing, the part of the infrastructure, but never with what is taught, what our children are doing in kindergartens. Apart from trying to increase children's skills for the first time, so that their skills are not the footprint of their parents' socio-economic background, and therefore to reduce all social inequalities where they need to be, that is to say, in childhood, we put within the programme of nurseries for the first time early diagnosis and early intervention not only of learning difficulties, but also, unfortunately, of the disability of the future, of the autism that cannot be checked. Secondly, we have already guaranteed funding from the European Commission for technical assistance to establish a necessary framework for early intervention and our proposals to the greatest extent have already been approved by the Recovery Fund for funding from this. I have, however, heard, beyond Mr Lambroulis' comments and with great attention again, what both the Minister of Labour said by SYRIZA and Mrs Fotio, who held the relevant portfolio of over four years in the previous government. What I have pointed out from the Step forward of this House is that the previous government has tried, that is, SYRIZA has tried to familiarize policies and actions which are purely of our own government. So try to take care of the disability card. He tried to take care of his personal assistant. Never - and I say again, there is no presumption - never the previous government spoke of a personal assistant, never spoke of a disability card. We in the National Disability Action Plan, however, have already tabled proposals, as we have already tabled proposals to the Recovery Fund for both, for the disability card, which has already begun to work for the Institute of ESDP - the largest, the only national disability institution in our country - so that people with disabilities do not have to prove their disability each time, do not have to take their cards out, so as to show that they are suffering from some visible or invisible disability, but also the state very importantly, having as a tool for this digital card, can identify where its interventions are successful, where they are effective and where not, as the Minister of State said very important, the Acropolis climb. What will we see from the evidence? Is visitability up yet? Personal assistant: the relevant conclusion has already been drawn from the committee working within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and we will soon be ready to take legislative action on this point for the first time. I heard Mrs. Fotio talking about a personal assistant for 24 hours. We've been in a year and a half already, we've already got the finding, and we're going to the legislature. Four years where was that personal assistant for 24 hours? Where was he? In addition, I would remind you that in the previous government there was the specific trend - which they say - the specific style. What was that? Primary legislation. What meant "primary legalization"? It meant too many press releases, press releases left, press releases right, press releases and half. Press releases what? In itself, the primary legislation does not mean anything, then the secondary and then the implementation of the first two. None of them for any of the three I will mention: First, the national mechanism, essential tool for assisting disabled people, second, adoptions and contractors - we were stuck in the primary legislative framework, nothing more! - on the part of children with disabilities - and, more generally, not only on it - nothing has happened. Thirdly - and I think this would have been filled, in particular, with some press releases - there had been nothing more than the legalisation of social welfare centres. Three hundred and twenty seats, permanent, organic for welfare centres and over a year had not run a single invitation. In the same logic, speaking in committee, the Qualifications and Sectoralism and the former Minister spoke about reduced funds in social welfare and, above all, disability. Double mistake, isn't it? Double mistake! A double mistake, because they were referring to two budgets both last year and this year. I would like to remind you in this year's increase of 12% in payments for disability allowances, totalling 22%, almost 1/4 increase for all pre-school allowances. So, what did our government do? It shielded the disability structures and the disability area during the pandemic period, managed to increase our spending on disability, and of course it promoted - and it continues to promote - because the road is long - the most substantial reforms in the field of disability which have been carried out so far. He referred to the previous debate and accessibility to disabled people, so that some interventions can be made in their own homes. Of course we agree, but we agree not for any other reason, because it is our proposal. If what Qualified Opposition has done is to read the proposals we have drawn up, deposited and approved by the Recovery Fund for disability, it is something that we are in agreement and we are very optimistic. It is very good for democracy and for the state to agree Co-population and Opposition. It's exactly what we want. But to say the whole truth, not half. Are the proposals good? Looks like they're invoking them, yeah. Are they their suggestions? Oh, no. Now let's go to my favorite, if you want, thing. What's that? Especially the part of the functionality. So the former Minister is once again trying to disorientate. But this -- because I'm telling you, it's my favorite -- this time it's going too far. Why is he getting too far? I will read to you mot a mot what I have noted since the previous debate in plenary. So I read that the Qualified Opposition calls for our Government's commitment that we will not implement the functionality in the field of disability. On the one hand, it says everywhere that it prevented disability from being assessed on the basis of functionality. On the other hand, I have to say: you, Mrs Fotio, were the ones who committed themselves to the institutions, you hired the World Bank - and unfortunately, the World Bank, because it has the "bank" within the definition of the concept you could not "unfair" and say it somehow, the World Bank could not become "institutions", remained World Bank -, you "drive" research and study on functionality. You did not tell the institutions, you did not tell the Ministry and your services yourself, but this study exists. And you know what I can tell you? That we are not going to implement it, primarily because it is a very bad study and a very bad job. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u96	I would like to remind you here of what we have done in the pandemic on disability, and we have done a great deal, we have done a great deal: we have committed our structures with 1/3 more people. All our structures, fifty two structures and welfare centers throughout Greece with 1/3 above world. We are talking about workers who are at the highest of the decades. And that's why? For it was our duty to shield these structures. We have defined strict rules, strict protocols, stricter protocols across Europe, because I have taken all my counterparts in the most at risk countries and have discussed their protocols with them. Our protocols are the strictest of all. And not only do we have protocols and the strictest, but we also have stricter controls. Fortunately, together with the HR, the National Transparency Authority and the General Secretariat for Consumer and Trade are constantly carrying out checks. And with the checks, we're always doing a test. COVID tests every week in all our structures, in disability structures, in patient structures and, of course, in the structures of the elderly. And that goes with the vaccination, because neither the vaccination - which is something else I heard - we left someone behind. We have already finished with the second dose in all the elderly care units, the first dose of vaccination has already gone to all disability structures, but also - very important - with the 70-74 age group all of our people with disabilities, who have a disease related to pandemic and COVID -19. In conclusion, I would like to mention, in addition to what I have just said, that we have already taken a number of steps and initiatives towards defending the rights of people with disabilities. In addition to staffing with 1/3 temporary staff, we "watched" at last these three hundred 50 posts that no one had ever run. Three hundred and fifty permanent organic positions, which had not been 'driven' or 'driven' for over a year. We ran them and they're here. In March, people go to our foundations. We have ensured 1/4 above voucher for children with disabilities in the centres of creative disability of children. We have extended the implementation of the distance interpretation programme for deaf people, which we did firstly, part of our regular budget, and secondly, we took it to hospitals - I see Mr Maraveya who knows very well that we took it to Volos - we took it to the subway, we take it to the airport. She's going everywhere. Finally, we are planning to implement actions for the professional rehabilitation of people in the range of autism, but also - very importantly - have we streamlined the framework for the operation of sheltered living, so that the most vulnerable - who are they? - uninsured people can no longer be covered. That is how we restore this very great difficulty. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill tabled by the Minister, Mr Gerapitris, it once again gives the tone of the political priority which the disability issues have for our Government, the government that has done most of all to the disability sector to shield our fellow peoples in the pandemic, to increase the financial space they have given them, but also to carry out the biggest reforms. But we know very well that the road is difficult and it is a long one. But we pledge that we continue with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u97	We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasio Kavada. Then Mr. Vernardakis will take the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Opposition is trying to find a way out of its existential problems by making use of the detestable incidents that concern timeliness for micro-party purposes. She is panicked by the shrinking of her influence and exploits the recent revelations that have caused absolute discomfort to all of us to win political points. Evidently, the Prime Minister does not touch slander and misery, as does the fact that he has given sufficient samples of respect and protection of human rights. The miserable and detestable behaviors revealed and insulting human dignity are not tolerated. They are referred to justice, which will do its duty. Respect for human dignity, the protection of minors from perverse situations and behaviours for us are not negotiable. There is a unique answer to these phenomena: research by justice and strict and exemplary punishment. The bill we are debating today is another practical proof that this government is determined to protect human rights. From the first days of her term of office she has shown her intentions to safeguard the rights of all citizens and especially those with disabilities. The National Action Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was first linked to specific and mainly measurable objectives. It's not a wish. It is associated with specific interventions by the Government, the Ministries and the First and Second Degree Government. It contains public space accessibility actions, buildings, related to digital accessibility actions, but also to substantial changes in the functioning of disability certification centres. The National Action Plan is an application of Article 9 of the Convention on Disabled Persons, which refers to the right of accessibility. What for us is simple and self-evident, such as crossing a sidewalk, reading an article, listening to news, entering a public service or being in a park for tens of thousands of our fellow people is impossible without appropriate intervention from the state. The State must take all appropriate measures to ensure that disabled people have equal access to the natural environment, means of transport, information, communications and the use of new technologies. Through this draft law, a single centre, a new independent authority, is created, which will have the responsibility of supervising, implementing and evaluating the National Action Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the responsibility of planning new proposals. This is the National Accessibility Authority, the first of the three major institutional innovations in this bill. This principle will be the State’s consultant for all matters linked to enhancing accessibility. Through this formulation of specific policies and proposals, it is assumed that the improvement of access conditions for disabled people to the entire range of activities will be ensured. It is an independent authority with an administrative and financial autonomy consisting of eleven members with a four-year term of office. It is composed of scientists of prestige, people with disabilities, representatives of self-government and the chairman of the National Commission for Human Rights. They will participate in it - but without the right to vote - and state officials who are responsible for implementing accessibility actions. Particular importance, but also a strengthening of the role of this independent authority, arises from the fact that it will come directly to the Prime Minister. This means that strengthening accessibility and guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities are top priority for the government. The objectives set are not simply specific, they will also be measurable and they will be constantly assessed. The second institutional and legislative innovation is to strengthen the role of the National Committee on Human Rights, which is being upgraded, gains separate administrative and financial autonomy. It undertakes to cover a wide range of rights such as human, individual, social, economic and cultural rights, effectively protecting people undergoing violence, abuse, discrimination, any kind of unequal treatment in the private or public space. In its new responsibilities, it is firstly added to the creation of a platform for recording incidents of racism, discrimination and violations of human rights, and secondly, to formulate proposals on matters of human rights that can be raised by Parliament or by bodies of the Civil Society. The third institutional intervention and change introduced by this bill is the transformation of the National Bioethics Commission into a National Bioethics and Technical Committee. It's an institution for the future, but it's already here. Progress in science raises serious issues. When and for what purpose can we interfere with human genetic material? When is a mutant or a synthetic food considered safe for humans? What is permitted and prohibited in experiments for the development of new medicines? With what qualities and characteristics and for what uses will technical intelligence develop? Technological development can also be widespread in some of its manifestations of a threat to human and individual democratic rights. The National Committee for Bioethics and Technology will be responsible for investigating the ethical dimensions created by technological development in our days which must not be counteracted by individual and social rights. Ladies and gentlemen, one would expect such a debate to dominate a climate of composition and consensus. Human rights are not a field of confrontation in a democratic Parliament, but a field of composition and cooperation. The government and the Prime Minister show that the accessibility of disabled people, but also of individual and social rights, is a top priority and they prove it in practice and not in words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I will say two words on the subject of topical and urgent debate. First of all, I would like to congratulate the government on its firm stand to keep Mrs Mendoni in her position. And I want to unite my voice in request never to leave the Ministry of Culture. He's offering a huge service to the place. She must not leave her post until not one actor, director, photographer, musician, artistic, modern, sound technician, archaeologist, member of the Ministry of Culture who does not understand the destruction that the New Democracy Government itself brings to the arts, culture and education. It gives material to lyrics, to sketches, to graffiti, to lady-in-laws, will be numbered in an inspection this summer. The country is living a great moment of intellectual creation and on its basis is the Minister of Culture. Apart from others, there is a danger that another Minister, including the New Democracy, will not want to cover the Ministry's scandals. Because the Minister does not only have the talent to be deceived by a highly hypocritical director - an actor, here is being deceived by those who are not actors, by the deep state of her ministry. It is the Minister at stake who risks the offence of a duty violation not to hurt her friends, to whom she gives state positions and money to make their trade union conferences. Five felonies have been in her hands for a year, but she refuses to exercise her disciplinary duties vis-à-vis the parties involved, Minister. Two felonies for another seven months. Silence again. Third criminal prosecution two months ago, again the same, absolute silence in the Ministry. Favorism, maladministration, cover-up, abuse and redundancies of workers in the Solidarity Fund, but card opinions accepted and others not made by the Legal Council of the State or the Council of State, persecutions of officials who were the first to uncover the crimes. Is she only fooled by theatrical people? We didn't know. The administration is never fooled, however, when it has the documents. It is therefore obvious that it must remain in its place to show both the last engraving citizen and the Greek society how bad this government is. And on all these issues, Mr. Gerapetritis, where are you and the Head of the Staff, will you say a word? You made the Final State. I told you when you "download" the law that I wish you would not get lost in the translation of the State Department into these structures of strange state administration. You are obviously lost in space, not in translation. You have allowed the absolute feudalization of the state mechanism. And say a few words about the bill, because you have a complaint that we're not talking about the bill. Bad bill, bad bill, and I'll explain why. Instead of strengthening the coordinating mechanism of disability, strengthening its mandate, instead of upgrading the administrative tool, you are building another independent administrative authority. Instead of implementing and evaluating accessibility policies, throw the ball over and over again outside the administrative state mechanism into an advisory committee. But we have been through this for many years. Disability and accessibility policies now need to be implemented, new legislation and new implementation, not an advisory body. Who controls, for example, the functioning of the disability reference points to be found in each municipality, in each district and in each Ministry, as defined by No.4488/2017, which you did not, did it by our government, and is the application of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Who controls the application of the equivalency of the Greek sign language and Braille? Who controls public works on disability, access to means of transport, access to beaches? Who controls and ensures that the legislation that comes here in Parliament as a tsunami contains the dimension of disability in all matters? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] What it would need today for disability issues is a deep administrative reform that recognises the problem of access to the structured, social and digital environment as the first priority human right, as a public good. Instead, you choose a new independent principle of opinional texture. The joy of lobbys, the joy of individuals who will be invited to make supposedly suggestions and supposedly reports on accessibility, the political disability economy. And don't baboon for the so-called consent of the disability representatives. The representatives of the lobbys were consented. The wheelchair movement and hundreds of organisations are against this bill, because you are behind the needs, you are behind Europe's good practices. Disabled employment is a tool for you to manipulate the world of disability and disability, but disability policies are at the core of the battle against social inequalities. They demand a universal social state with policies of access to education, health and work, with strategies for dematerialisation which you say nothing about, with policies on mental health that are on the reverse of social exclusion policies, with radical changes in the public speech that must recognize disability no longer as a disadvantage, but as a possible physical situation for each of us. All this would require a strong administrative tool, strong legitimacy in a conservative administrative system that does not know from public policies, but only from vertical sectoral policies. They would require a strong Ministry of Rights and Equality, according to one proposal, or a State Secretary for Disability, according to another proposal, and these would indeed be ideas that would promote this enormously important new social agenda. With this bill, we're just wasting time. Responsibility for the next democratic government of SYRIZA will fall again to move on with this great democratic wheelchair reform, as it promoted Law 4488/2017, as it recognised the signifi­cant and Braille, as the first government body for disability, the coordinating mechanism, as it created all this brave social prosperous equality policy, as it rejected social davism policies, demanded by the International Monetary Fund. The bill must be voted against, because it offers nothing and disorientates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u101	Thank you too for keeping time, Mr Bernardakis. True and experienced. Good evening to you and me. Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece, has asked for the floor. Also, Mr. Villardos has asked for the floor from the Greek Solution. I must put two or three colleagues in between.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u102	Of course they will, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u103	Good. I'm so glad when there's understanding. Besides, after the verb "I love" the best is "I help." Mr. Viliardos, Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u104	Mr Gerapititi, I would, however, have resigned on Mrs Mendoni's seat. It was the duty of the lady and her ministry to check on Mr. Lignade before he was appointed. Negligence in such ministerial positions for these assignments, especially in the field of culture, is a crime, while all of us are responsible for our actions, based on the outcome. However, once again your government has dragged Greece internationally. We will now start now from the fact that unfortunately, instead of urgent matters such as changing our failed economic and tourist model or references from other eurozone countries to the need to delete some of the debts created by the pandemic, 25% of the European Central Bank alternatively with their freezing, Parliament's bombing continues with draft laws. There is not even a debate on the huge banking problem of monetary union, among other things, because of the zero interest rates and the red loans of banks pan-Europeanly, as well as on the settlement system of the European Central Bank, TARGET 2, which is literally on the edge of the collapse. Only Germany seems to be preparing, having drawn up a plan (b) in the event that the Eurozone does not survive, among other things, because of the destruction caused by the locks of the economies by invoking the pandemic. On the contrary, the Greek Government seems to have found the “leaf tree”, as it continues to promise allowances and repayable advances, according to the relatively recent interview of the Minister of Development, a minister who promises to support the focus with the ESDP programmes, as if it were green or digital investments, and has reached such a despair point, in order to invite investors even from Albania. At the same time, the government charges Greece at an unprecedented pace, much higher than in 2004-2009, creating the conditions for its membership of the IMF, when our public debt, the central government, now closes to EUR 380 billion, the red private debt of EUR 260 billion, the deficit exceeded EUR 24 billion or 15% of GDP in 2020 - I recall that 2009 was respectively - and the banks doubled their lending from the European Central Bank to EUR 54.6 billion in December. There is no debate about what will happen, when the liquidity programme is stopped, if the European Central Bank is asked again for primary surpluses or when borrowing interest rates are increased internationally, especially for countries with unsustainable public and red private debt, as Greece is certainly. We will repeat for once that deficits along with the continuously miscalculated forecasts of the financial staff, where it recently announced doubling the deficits of 2021 plus the paradoxical estimate of own income taxes and VAT in 2021 with 2019, making the budget of 2021 useless, for garbage, literally for garbage! Therefore, the Minister for Finance must immediately submit a new budget, so that we know where Greece is driving, and it is no use concealing the huge government failures behind COVID -19 and mass hysteria that is causing with the help of the media that is remorseless. Before the bill, we must refer to everything that is heard every day, about the charges of sexual harassment, as another product of the sins that the post-citizens have suffered with easy money, the artificial growth of the economy, the millions of advertising that the government repeats today, etc. In fact, it can be seen that, apart from the bankruptcy of the state, business and households, the governments have also led Greece to moral bankruptcy, promoting as people in culture people who certainly did not deserve this. So it has been a long way from what our country has been suffering in recent years, such as the protest gatherings on the memoranda and on the PSI. As far as the great syllables against the tradition of Macedonia's name were concerned, not only did they not support our country, but three hundred and seventy-two of them tabled a signed text in favour of the Prespecies Agreement, without any feeling of shame, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Three committees are, in fact, re-established in a similar manner and in a general context, reasonable, but without any objectives being set, as is the case with almost all the draft laws of the Government. The committees are self-sufficient, but their members are chosen by the Prime Minister, forming another step in the direction of the "one man's authority", which is an idiom of totalitarian power. Many details, such as their rules of procedure and salaries, will be defined by Prime Minister or Ministerial Decisions. So Parliament is not even given the possibility of formulating policies or their costs from the General Accounting Office of the State, since the parameters have not been defined. So this is something completely unacceptable, as it seems to be giving someone a white check to do what they want, at whatever the cost they want. As far as the principle of accessibility is concerned, we have raised the issue of small and mediumsized enterprises, for which we have been very sensitive since the beginning of our programme, while not only the proposals are enough, since, in order for them to have effect, there must be concrete measures and objectives, which we do not see here, but only intentions and recruitments. In relation to the National Committee on Human Rights, the ECHR, had already been set up under Law 2667/1998 under the same name, while the National Bioethics Commission - which was established by the same law - is converted into a Committee on Bioethics and Technology. With regard to the ECHR, rights are regarded as the field of modern policy at world level, while through these rights, imposed by international committees and conventions, the policies of the nations are ultimately being dismantled. However, in its document from 1998, which coincides with the establishment of these committees strangely, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, it argues that there are no fundamental rights, but the rights mentioned today depend on political and ideological purposes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the other hand, there would be generally accepted rights only if there were a global state, that is, what the elites are trying to impose in order to serve their interests, through non-democratic processes, as with the great reintroduction of their other initiatives. But we, as a Greek Solution, are in favour of the nation-state, considering it as a precondition for democracy. We also believe that the only universally accepted right, arising from all other things, such as education, health, freedom, etc., is that of dignity, which we have been deprived of by the troika and Germany, with the memoranda that have been imposed upon us and with their constant attacks on us. There is a suspicion that the individual rights promoted today are intended to be used as instruments for controlling and destroying the nation - state - economic, administrative, as well as through the free movement of capital, goods and people. Besides, if we believe Nicholas Taleb, strangely what is needed for the control of liberal democracies is the claimive dogmatic minorities, not the tolerant democratic majority, as we will testify in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the big problem is what and who decides on these rights, such as the right to confidentiality of personal data, where according to Law 4624/2019 access is possible when it is considered necessary to prevent serious harm to the rights of another person, where one reasonably wonders who and how one judges them. One of the most worrying points of the ECHR, which according to Article 10 enjoys functional independence and administrative autonomy, is that the members are appointed by decision of the Prime Minister. In addition, Article 28, by decision of the Minister of Finance, provides that their compensation shall be determined by way of derogation from the applicable provisions on remuneration or compensation on account of participation in boards and committees of the public sector. If it is possible for the House to agree on something like that! Continuing, with regard to the Bioethics Committee, it is directly related to rights, as it clearly appeared from COVID -19. The bill adds the term of technology, which is a new concept in terms of politics, while it deals with the investigation of the moral, social and legal dimensions of artificial intelligence, advanced algorithms and robotics. Unfortunately, her members are also appointed by the Prime Minister under Rule 32, as well as their remuneration by the Minister of Finance under Article 38. We note that bioethics is mainly about biology, biotechnology, medicine and genetics. In this respect, apart from moral issues in terms of genetic intervention, bioethics is related to the management of COVID, so now we are talking about biopolitics, where important questions are raised, such as, for example, the following: First, is health insurance a right or a product? Is there any respect for personal data or are they being violated in order to protect the whole from spread? Secondly, is it right to freedom of movement or is it subject to general good? Thirdly, will the vaccine be mandatory either directly or indirectly, especially when even the Burla of PFIZER - I remind you - disagree, as we shall submit in the Minutes? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourthly, do immigrants have the right to an ID? Should indigenous people build more ICUs for illegal immigrants and open the borders because they have a right? Fifth, do the young and the elderly have the same right to an IF? How do doctors decide? Sixth, will anyone sign that he gives his consent to leave the ICM if there is a shortage and someone else who better meets the criteria? Seventh, what right will prevail? The financially powerful man who wants less IF and is able to work from home, or the poor man who is not in such a position and wants to work? The young man or the elderly who can only be confined to him instead of everyone else to fight the pandemic? Eighth and last. Should everyone make a vaccine to protect everyone, or is it not necessary? After all, does the population who consent to the abuse of their rights do so with full consciousness or under the fear state under controlled media messages? How much more so, when there was court intervention in other countries concerning the way in which decisions were taken, such as in Denmark, or the ban on coming to temples, such as the United States. According to many, however, as has been demonstrated in the United States, from Florida and California which had the same consequences from COVID, despite the fact that one was "locked" and the other was not, the lockdowns destroy the economy without helping health. If we add to health all the rest, such as the other untreated, psychological, etc., then the scale is on both sides in favour of non-locking. In closing, therefore, we have the view that we should immediately stop locking, buy drugs other than vaccines, which are not panacea, as there will be mutations, and come back to some normality. Finally, although it is not commensurate with the issue, we will close with the extremely serious animal feed problem, the price of which, for example soybeans, has increased over 30% this year, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, literally leading to the despair of producers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we need to take immediate steps before our primary sector, which for us as a Greek Solution, is completely destroyed, is one of the first areas that our country needs to take care of, especially as far as its food is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. The Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u106	As has been said, we are - it says - in a toxic environment, which is of course offered for great controversy. I am talking about developments relating to the area of culture, etc. Are there any responsibilities? Of course there are. We say that there are government responsibilities too. Because when you appoint someone, you take responsibility for what it is. When this breaks out, you have a responsibility. The problem, however, is the Minister's resignation? Is that the main projected? So, if someone else comes in and does the same thing, what happens then? Because we've been living this for many years. A bill is coming for education, for Kerameo or Giannaku to leave or old Arsenis or anyone else and for someone else to pursue the same policy. Therefore, it is not only about one person. Not that we close our eyes to it. In our view, the main responsibilities are the maintenance of a social, economic, labour and legislative framework that produces perpetrators and victims, while at the same time blackmailing their silence. And that is not just the case in the field of culture. Bad working relationships, uncertainty, unemployment, they make victims and they also make victims. That is where it is produced and not a matter of tolerance, Mr Gerapetti, it is a matter of capitalist system and industrial relations. When you send out a world that is insecure all the time - I'll tell the rest of the aftermath of what values growers - it's very natural to give birth to such things. And it's not an exception, it's a lot too many spaces. Breaking silence, of course, is at individual level a brave act indeed and necessary to punish the guilty. But, in our view, the next step is disclosure, a struggle with social coercion that facilitates the perpetrators and imposes silence. Extortion. This is where we all live. Don't pretend you're surprised most people and it's something terrible no one suspected of. It's happening. To hotel staff, Mr. Katsotis, are they happening? Is it happening in other workplaces? Where's he coming from? From the weakness of one and from the power of the other in a barbaric system. What do we live, really? And here we'll see you outside the teeth. We are living the booze that emerges and which is the result of a rotten system that displays "worthy codes" of unspeakable barbarism in this area too. Really, to ask you, don't you know what's going on online? Have you been told? Have you seen it? The large monopolies are dominated by developmental operators, the ones who are treasured all the time. Didn't you know that the greatest distortions are projected and promoted? Yes or no? You know that? Why don't you talk? You don't know the websites and others about paedophilia, because we're talking about it? Don't you know how many sites there were? Don't you know that attempts have been made to become a pedophile party, if I'm not mistaken, in the Netherlands? It could be somewhere else. In fact, there were many supporters who said that in the name of freedom this site must be made. The photograph of the capitalist world. In fact, do you not know that a cattle party was set up in the Netherlands? Do you know or don't you? The European Union also celebrates the opportunity for everyone to choose what they want. Do you not know that in Germany there are tolerant houses for animals? Do you know or not? It's Frankfurt. And there is trade in particular in other countries, which we probably do not know. Don't you know all this? Aren't you aware of the 'text' industry hosted in the large internet search engines? Here comes the child - not to say site - to learn about school and lessons, and they come out of "boxes" and offers from minors, adults, etc. Is that true or not? I'm addressing everyone. Is it exist or not? It's not just a Greek phenomenon, it's a global phenomenon. It applies to all capitalist countries. And if you want, it's the stinking breath of a system that's gone through. This is the dirty breath that destroys, levels, gives values out of every human limit, from young children to older ones. Why? Because everything is subject to the law of profit. All in the market, and the human body. Is there or is there no organ trade? He sells his kidney to a rich man, because he can't live and he buys it in top Swiss and elsewhere. And everyone does what they don't know and they don't understand. All sold and one is God, the gain of possessors and occupants. And you're talking about human culture. Big stink. This is happening today, Pompeii, in a system that collapses because it cannot be overturned and will be at noon. Don't you know about drug trafficking that they're not supposed to be able to deal with? Are you serious? The "big brother" who can level a country in fifteen days can't deal with it? Since they're all inside, both state and service and everywhere. They don't want to, because they prefer the youth perverted, who won't be, and the world. They prefer to fall into drugs and not fight for another human system. These produce your system. That's the truth, whether you like it or not. These are capitalism, an exploitationist, inhumane, who murders millions of people every day to rise the 1% wallets. Thousands of people possess as much wealth as two and three billion people. That's what you're defending, and that's where no one's talking. And for those who are absent - there's one here - that's not humanity, it's only overthrown. And the more it proceeds to rot, the more dangerous it becomes and there can be no better management. Now, let me tell you about the bill. National Accessibility Authority. Changes to the other two, the ECHR and the Bioethics Committee. I will start from the first to confirm the previous ones I have said, however extreme they seem, but reality is the same. What does the European Union say? I'll read it. The Lambroulis read it too, but I repeat it, because the repetition is the mother of learning for those who see us at least. It says: 'Providing accessibility to services, the structured environment, products will ensure the enlargement of the European Union's internal market to a hundred million disabled people who can buy services and products'. The inhumanity at n+1, infinite. That is what it says: 'To make money, put the accessibility ahead'. That's what it actually says. Am I wrong? Disprove it. To finance the European Union's companies and multinationals who are in competition with the Americans, in front of all countries, accessibility, i.e. parties. Winning, money in monopolies and entrepreneurship. But we're talking about giant things, not small entrepreneurship. Money monopolies to get a large part of the market from the Americans. And then we talk about sensitivities and humanism. Well, aren't you ashamed? When you have such a text, you normally had to rip it and say: But they're humiliated. They are not thinking of the huge problems faced by people who have a disability, but of what they think - and we have said this before - is how they will make money even from there, even from the helpless. And the ones they've got, of course, but the ones that don't have what they're gonna do? It will pay the state in general, and it will also be in this area of human misery in all areas and not just for that. And the people who ask for and mobilize as much as they can and are touching, because they ask to live under certain human conditions, you answer that yes, we are all sensitive. But the governments were all unconscious in practice. We don't judge what it feels. Politicians are judged by what they implement. What is the situation today? It's terrible. Are these two thousand disabled children, Mr. Gerapetritis and Mrs. Michailidou, who are making us touching speeches, out of the structure or not? Two hundred thousand. It's yours. What are they doing? How's it going? How do they live? How do their families live? And you come in and make reasons for us? Secondly, are 90% of those capable of work unemployed, yes or no? And get out of here with a lot of nerve. What you've been doing for all these years. Third. Do disabled people increase? Do we have a large percentage? Why? Because there is a lack of disability prevention. Mr. Lambroulis said a lot of things about what it means. And because you're stuck with us, in 1960 the Soviet Union had prenatal control over 100% of the population, until the child was born until his first years. He had done miracles, despite the mistakes he made later. This is our world! He's got the man. This is our world. He had him and he's got him. And in the case of vaccines, doctors and scientists were sacrificed to get the vaccines to live, while today they are playing with the lives of millions of people every day to increase their profits. These are our differences and the great chaos that separates us. So tell us now. Is the necessary free treatments, the necessary artificial free devices, necessary for the education, rehabilitation and daily living of the disabled? Anyone who does not know should go ask these families. Of course, those who have money, and it's probably a minority, can pay. What are the others doing? How do these people live today? What state protection do they have? What kind of schools do they have? Soul warehouses. Twenty-five people with a teacher taking charge of all these kids. And you're talking on top? And at the same time, 1 million of the gentleman's party was seen for one night. Isn't that right, Mr. Gerapetiti or are we wrong? So I keep going. Will the Accessibility Authority solve this? Of course we are in favour of accessibility everywhere. We're not talking about that. There's no human being sane who doesn't want it. But are these problems going to be tackled or given market access to make some money for the big people? Of course not. Logic is cost-benefit. You have cut 900 million from social expenditure here with the third memorandum you have voted for with both hands all those who were then. Do you cut 650 million in the middle of a coronary and do you have the nerve to talk about social sensitivity today? Aren't there any money trees? Don't tell us there's no money. There are billions, but they are in the pockets of a few, to which you give more. National Committee on Human Rights. We have taken a position on these independent committees from the outset. We said the following. They're not independent. Why? For two reasons. One is that they are appointed by the respective government, and the second is why they are moving in a specific legal and institutional framework. So what is it? It's an amortizer to absorb the world's reaction to governments. However, this has a second reading and I will say it below. So what do we say now? To protect European Union law and national law - what law? - human rights. Yes, sir. Is the job a right of every man? Yes or no? Is he protecting it? Oh, no. Even full-time work. Even a decent wage job. What's your system doing? Just the opposite. He's been kicking all over the world. Free health. Is health social good? Should it be offered to everyone, especially to the non-free? Are you protecting it? Oh, no. Formation. You brought this monster and you'll pay for it. I'll say that at the end. Social security. Well, you stole the sweat of all your generations. You stole the sweat of our fathers, our own and our children, who over the years normally paid for all these years, and you went and stole them in one or two nights, both with the PSI and the Stock Exchange, and with the reduction of pensions, everything. And you're talking above about rights? What rights? One night, so the capital can win even more. However, even to the credit of people, and because I have also had a personal perception in these years, they have done some serious work, many times, on many issues. They intervened on rights issues, on issues of topicality, on comments in bills. However, "on the deaf door as long as you want to stink". Governments even wrote these in their old shoes. They intervened to change everything they were saying and now they are intervening in legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. We want to welcome the struggles of health workers and seafarers today. What do the sanitaries want? How did you not send them the MATs? Have you forgotten? What do you got? Here the only growing sector of the economy in Greece is the police. The place is full. Whatever you want, Special Representatives, DIA, I don't know what else you've made. So many bodies everywhere. What do sanitary truths request today? They call for measures not to go to blackouts - so to say in genuine Greek - the public health system does not collapse completely. How can this be done? Recruitment. Private structures, 'cause until you're able to build a I.T., there's been a time. Immediate measures in the workplace and in the public transport I repeat, according to your own studies, are the places that are health bombs. What do you say? Nothing. He says heroes. What do you answer that? Second, seafarers. What are they saying? Here's what the employees of the richest part of Greek society want. They're asking to stay on ships under collective agreements. Do you disagree? Say it. They're asking for decent wages. Do you know what a sailor means? How would most of you know? He's been away ten to eleven months from home. They raise his children without him. He works twenty-four hours a day. He has the responsibility of too many things. He's carrying from explosives to human organs. And what are you telling them now? Reduction of wages. They're asking for insurance rights. You guys suck! The largest commercial fleet in the world is the Greek. The wealth of the Greek shipowners is unthinkable. And it's not just boats. They're in the channels, they're in big business, they're in banks. And these riches instead of taxing them, you say they will pay the crews, the wages of the seafarers will be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u107	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u108	I'm done. Besides, I'm in time. I've got twelve and six and three, all twenty-one minutes. I've got two more minutes. I'm not talking second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u109	If that's the case, of course, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u110	You're doing great. Military operation. Five hundred Cheeks versus two hundred students. You don't even think about war laws. You've gotten over them, of course. You have been taught by the Americans who bomb from ten kilometers and do not go down, like Yugoslavia. Military operation, chemicals, arrests, beatings. We are addressing the Greek people. We're talking to the students, the parents, the students, and we're telling them. Why did they hit them? What are they asking for? They're asking to open up the universities, you with the excellence you're saying. They want to go to college, take lessons safe, with health conditions, like protocols say. So what are they asking for? That's what they're asking. Many fenders have made concrete proposals. Not everyone. There are exceptions. I'll tell you about the exception. They say we have the possibility, there are rooms, there are everything, hire some to respond. What do you say? Wood, MAT, out, democracy in universities. Excuse me, democracy and the police at universities? If you understand her that way, you're out of night. What else are they asking for? They're asking for the monster law to be abolished. You have created a law that has not been taken away yet by all the Greek people. It cuts between twenty and thirty thousand children outside the universities and some do not end the universities and especially the workers. Apart from the police that you put into the universities. If you think that with violence and terrorism you will enforce this abominable law to know that you are too far out of sight! I'm telling you raw. Others have said it! And from New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA. It won't be easy. It won't pass because you have parents, teachers, university students, students. And, Mr Gerapetti, you understand - and I know who I'm talking to - that there is a storm coming. It's boiling. And this storm will scan you. They won't get through that easy. You seek conflict and you do it with tsamboukas and with "so I want". Aren't you ashamed? The kids are eighteen and nineteen, they're hitting on the neck! Look at the pictures. What's this? Where do we live? In the jungle? The Greek people have great traditions, they have hidden powers you underestimate them today and you think that a more general preservative will pass. Oh, no. This people will wake up and put their seal on and send every rascal to their bench.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile. All the parliamentary representatives have spoken, so we are going to the speakers and first to Voliotis, Mr Athanasios Ljupi from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u112	I shall confine myself to the bill, Mr President. Today's bill is an excellent bill, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, confirming the government's target on policies that highlight major issues in the field of individual rights. Three committees are at the heart of the bill, with the symbolic, but also an essential choice for everyone to come directly to the Prime Minister. We are not discussing theoretically, but the implementation of a central planning which is geared towards better coordination of the issues relating to people with disabilities, human rights and the issues of bioethics and technology. The National Accessibility Authority is recommended for the first time and is intended to help improve the numerous accessibility issues that are still present in our country. And it emerged from a recommendation from the RESEMA itself. The concept of accessibility is broad and concerns the natural environment, means of transport, public services, leisure, culture and religion, communications, technology, and even the Internet. Unfortunately, we are far from a country in which we have access infrastructures for people with disabilities. According to the 2019 figures, even 1% of the sidewalks do not meet specifications for MEAS. However, within a year and a half, the government has already shown its firm will to change the landscape of accessibility to Greece completely. For the first time, the analytical and coherent National Action Plan on the Rights of LEADER was presented. Last July the Ministerial Decision laying down technical directives for the adaptation of public buildings was published to make them accessible to people with disabilities. At the same time, the Minister of Justice took an initiative to ensure accessibility for all court buildings and services on the ground. Subsequent to this coordinated effort, the National Accessibility Authority is set up. It is a body of highly advisory nature, which is responsible for recording accessibility issues and formulating resolution proposals. It is in cooperation with the government's coordinating mechanism, participates in the legislative preparatory committees, contributes to informing the public about accessibility issues. The principle will be eleven. The important thing is that the principle will not remain closed in this limited circle of people, but will open up its contacts with all the actors and people who can strengthen its purpose. It has the possibility to invite scientists Greek and abroad to submit their proposals, while being able to cooperate with higher education institutions and research centres. Finally, it is important that it invites two students or two with disabilities and offers practical training to undergraduate and postgraduate and young scientists. Once a year, the authority will report to the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament and the party leaders. The second committee of today's bill is the National Committee on Human Rights. This is already an independent advisory committee of the State in matters of human rights, which has so far shown a great deal of work. The new provisions are being upgraded. It acquires, for the first time, legal personality and effective administrative and economic autonomy. These are requests made by the members of the committee themselves following recommendations from the relevant UN Accreditation Committee. She is also subject to the Prime Minister directly and is responsible for making proposals to improve the human rights law and administrative area. It is interconnected and is in cooperation, both with the Government and with the Civil Society. Its important contribution is to monitor a system for recording incidents of racism, discrimination and intolerance. In order to effectively carry out its work, the Committee has operational links between all ministries and representatives of parliamentary parties, so that there is a lasting channel of communication and an exchange of views. Finally, the National Bioethics Commission is developing and adapting to modern needs. It is called the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology to cover the issues arising in the field of technology. Developments in science are so rapid that it makes it absolutely imperative that there should be an adequate institutional framework for the moral questions raised. Especially in the fields of biology, genetics, biotechnology, information technology and robotics are fields that often move in uncharted waters of human knowledge. The development of artificial intelligence is no longer scientific fiction. Meta- learning, i.e. the learning process that allows a machine to have its own induction methods, is a reality that itself gives rise to many questions and concerns. In this respect, it is very important that the initiative of today's draft law should be able to be adopted by the committee, namely guidelines, both for the private sector and for the public. In conclusion, I should like to say that today's bill is the result of a fruitful dialogue with the relevant bodies, and its final form came after the comments and comments made by the committees. It represents, in other words, exactly what should be the rights of people with disabilities and human rights, the field of democratic productive debate and not micro-party confrontation. For a democratic state all of this is self-evident, as is self-evidently the case for each of us to play their own small but crucial role in the protection of rights. After all, as has been said, the only way to protect my rights is to protect the rights of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr Ljupe, and respect for the time. When you want to talk about it in time and say it all. Mrs Maria - Eleni Soukoulis - Vilialis from New Democracy and beautiful Corinth is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. I cannot, before I start talking about the bill, not to say that SYRIZA, continuing the opposition of despair that moves in the sphere of pluralism and unspeakable populism, is trying to divide even into a matter of major importance and throw it in the gutter of micropoliticalism. What are you doing? Take the lights of social attention from the victims and turn them into your own party pursuits, obviously on the altar of popular units. Where unity is required, ladies and gentlemen, you are sowing dissatisfaction. But you must be careful because the Greek people understand and judge the attitude of each of us. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are in plenary to place ourselves and adopt the draft law on the National Accessibility Authority, the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technicians. Three committees that allow us to claim that the government is continuing steadily on its reformist path, which is dynamically adapted to the needs of today, seeing the changes of tomorrow. Because, ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely the philosophy of the text that we have before us. It is a draft law that realises that the day after the pandemic will be different, which realises that, by means of accelerator even the global health crisis itself, effective adaptation is needed to meet the very great challenges that we have before us in important areas of public policy. They are challenges that have to do with the growing speed of digital and technological transformation, with the dynamic change in the model of human employment caused by automation, with the rapid emergence of the consequences of climate change, with the scientific effort to map the human genome. These are issues that will ask us unprecedented questions and which require critical answers both for the moment and for our future. It is necessary to avoid finding ourselves in front of a society without frontiers and without frontiers, and it has been said by the relevant bodies in the committee. On a road to adapting to new data, the government has to make strategic choices that will lead the country to an effective and smoother social and economic transition to the new era. The choice to set up a completely new committee, such as the one on the accessibility of people with disabilities, the reconstituting of an existing one, such as the one on human rights, and the upgrading of the Committee on Bioethics, of course, is not random. Today's bill is a clear sign that our political philosophy was, is and will be anthropocentric. It demonstrates our clear political will to intervene in legislative terms so that in this rapid changing project we strengthen the widest possible core of human rights protection. The protection of fundamental rights as a dynamic process requires a constant commitment on the part of the state and that is what we are doing. The success of a modern rule of law, which wishes to be effectively adapted to the new conditions, is considered decisive and above all by the way it seeks to achieve this objective, that is, if this process is carried out in terms of equal integration for all citizens in the new operational framework. And how do we do that? We are doing this effectively by improving the decision-making process for the creation of public policies and subordinated to these new advisory committees under the Prime Minister and essentially by linking them to the head, but also to the entire range of executive power and not only. We are sending out a clear message that we are ready to use the necessary scientific know-how for ever more specific problems requiring complex solutions and touch multiple fields of state responsibility. But can these committees play this important role assigned by the state? Today more than ever, and they can and should only meet certain specific criteria that will give them substantial content, but also functionality, to carry out their statutory duties. In this draft law we note that these basic rules, such as prominent scientific training and the criterion of adequate representativeness in the process of composition, their multidisciplinary approach to how they work, the independence of their administrative organisation, the high degree of interoperability with other stakeholders, or even their financial self-sufficiency, have been respected. These elements are the guarantees, but also the prerequisites, so that the result obtained can provide the quality advantage for both the state and the Civil Society that is no more than the creative documentation of their proposals in the good areas of competence. All those who claim that it may be a question of democratic legitimacy by the action of the committees because of their great specialisation are the answer that is simple: in our society, democratic legitimacy is defined by our Constitution, and so is the political responsibility that arises from these responsibilities. Therefore, yes, we are moving forward, creating modern advisory structures free of past bounties with a central aim to help us implement our strategic commitment to the Greek people that is no other than to drive the country to the next day. A day when all Greek women and all Greeks are shielded with their rights, united in the common goal will be ready to adapt and we will be ready to adapt and protagonist in the fields where science and technology lead evolution. But always proposing to this evolutionary process the man and his rights, as the historical identity of the Greek classical philosophical thinking requires, which remains always timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mrs Sukoulis, and thank you for keeping time. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA. Elected in the B1' sector of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u116	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. He said the Minister, Mr. Gerapitris, in his position, and he ironed the opposition that we blamed him, he says, for all it was the Final State. Minister, I don't know if you're aware of this, but you're nineteen months government. Can you remind me of an incident you've taken responsibility for something? It's always someone else's fault, something else. Unfortunately at such a difficult time you are an irresponsible, responsible, and I am sorry to call it a cowardly government. And that turns out to be daily. You only rule with communication. You are ruling opposition to the opposition. Where do you think this can take you? What problems do you think of the country can be solved with this strategy? In fact, in monitoring both the dialogue in Parliament and the public speech, I cannot understand why the Prime Minister can't ask for the resignation of Ms. Mendoni. It's a powerful government. It's a comfortable majority. His favorite polls don't think they're too good for Mrs. Mendoni. The Secretary of State for Culture no longer speak positively, nor do the most fanatical of Mr Mitsotakis. The government's support for the face of Ms. Mendoni by oral Peloni and the reference to communication error is a great challenge because it seems even after everything that has happened that she enjoys the support of the Prime Minister. It is shocking that there have not yet been any resignations and political responsibility. The late 'deceived' of us and 'deceived' me is also a challenge, because a deceived Minister is a weak and vulnerable Minister, a minister who cannot run or talk to anyone. It must go away and explain where the 'us' refers to us. Is the Prime Minister also the deceived ones? Mr. Mitsotakis gets it on him? This is not a question of hovering. Obviously it is not the responsibility of the Mitsotakis government and no government to find out if anyone is a pedophile. However, the issue that arises starts after the complaints have been made. Because since the complaints were made, there was an attempt to cover up, there was an attempt to communicate a clipping, there was a matter of communal diversion culminating in the Fake photo Tsipras - Lignade. On February 13, Alexis Tsipras called on Mr. Mitsotakis to take a position on the complaints. The government representative's answer was that this is - it says - vulgarities. Even when Lignade resigned, the Government spoke of personal reasons. Uh, all this, regardless of any political controversy, is it not clear that they are causing disgrace and shame in Greek society? Is it not quite clear that we need cleansing and institutional immunity here and now? Isn't it quite clear that we have to break the abscess now? In this landscape, New Democracy is trying with violence and authoritarianism to change the communication agenda. Unfortunately, what we saw yesterday at the Aristotle University is indicative. In my opinion, the plan is clear. You are trying to undermine democratic normality by overthrowing the post-political status quo. Police and tension to disorientate public opinion. Seeing the pictures of police intervention at the university yesterday, I wondered where this picture is from with the student dragging him. He's not from Turkey, Erdogan. It's from Greece of Mitsotakis. And the faster you leave and your policies, the faster the normality will be restored, because you are, in fact, at risk. I'm coming to the bill now. The Government of New Democracy shall endeavour in every way to create a fully controlled party state. The logic of 'our own children' prevails in every manifestation of administrative function. And, of course, when he can't control something, he's pulling it down and reconstituting it. This has also been done by the abolition of the administrative control bodies and the creation of the imminent independent, but in fact completely controlled by Maximos, the National Transparency Authority, it has also done so by stabilising the leadership of the Competition Committee and by retrospectively establishing incompatible in violation of any concept of administrative ethics. The same attempts to do with this draft law by abolishing and re-establishing the two committees, on human rights and bioethics. In fact, there is no point in this, beyond the obvious: attempting to alter the correlations and the ultimate party control over the work of the two committees and, of course, introducing some additional positions of responsibility in order to help some other 'blue' children. The Government is attempting to ensure full party control of two committees which have a positive role to play, limiting and representing the social actors in them. Now it's clean, the masks are down. The New Democracy attempts to restore the party state, the hardest party state in the past. As far as the establishment of the National Accessibility Authority is concerned, there is obviously a need for the establishment of an administrative structure with responsibility for planning and coordinating the relevant policies. However, disability issues cannot be dealt with through a committee without a stable administrative structure, without permanent staff, without secure infrastructure and resources available. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance defends the need to create a permanent administrative structure that ensures the continuity, monitoring and evaluation of existing policies. However, the serious functioning of the public administration, particularly in such critical areas, requires permanent structures and not committees to be deployed or reduced, depending on the attitudes of the political leadership concerned. Here too the questions - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - are quite clear and specific. What policies have we developed in the pandemic for disabled people? What did we do with the vaccinations for people with disabilities? What policies and actions from the Recovery Fund will be concerned with people with disabilities? Minister, have you followed the public consultation? Did you see the remarks of the Disabled Movement, the criticism that you are being made? Because it is quite clear that the Mitsotakis Government believes that for all pathogens and delays in works and policies, the solution is the establishment of principles, the establishment of committees under the control of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. Mrs. Catherine Alexopoulou is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it could be a bill - a posteriori for the rights of people with disabilities - that it could really remain in our political history as an important act for the full integration of MEDIA into Greek society if it did not create confusion as to its true objectives. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, but I cannot, in principle, understand a fundamental point. Why, exactly, is the accessibility of Greek SMEs to the rights of other social groups such as LGBTK? Why, in the same draft law, is it attempting to upgrade our fellow people with disabilities to identify with the time-consuming pursuits of groups that are independent of the problems of the SMEs? That alone causes reasonable questions. The Greek Solution has pointed this out from the start. That is why our position is clear that it is obvious that the government's objective to encapsulate all of us who are fighting for the rights of the LEADER, so that we are forced to vote in favour of a bill aimed at creating a colourful party army for the New Democracy. This is our impression, ladies and gentlemen, for the unprecedented event in a single bill of attempting a fraudulent, essentially, set off Greeks with disabilities with other groups. Because they are, in fact, completely different issues. Allow me now to go to some parts of the draft law on the establishment of the National Accessibility Authority, a principle aimed at people with disabilities to have access to all areas of human activity. There's, you know, a central demand. Access is much wider than the natural environment and the structured space. Access for SMEs also means the right to participate on equal terms in benefits and evaluations of health, education, work, and this requires, in addition to the creation of the principle, an overall framework for improving the everyday life of these people. Why, finally, ladies and gentlemen, can we not only talk about administrative and institutional reform, when, at the same time, in real life, conditions for these people with disabilities become increasingly difficult economic, social, but also at the level of their government service, which cancels all of this concerning the Government's responsibilities? Should I explain this a little bit with a typical example? The great KEPA, which has been so afflicted for years by MEDAs. Should this real problem not be included in a comprehensive framework for dealing with small and medium-sized enterprises by the state in order to resolve it definitively? You know, all these long-term delays and complex procedures resulting from the distorting functioning of CEPRs create a matter of the survival of people with disabilities at the mid-term standby stage. However, such a huge issue for small and medium-sized enterprises is not even taken into account by a huge draft law, such as what we are discussing. That is why the major question here is: What is the value of a national authority which has no commitment to a project and a result, which is not even part of a broader plan of administrative reorganisation of the state? So the whole of Article 1 of the bill actually annulls, gentlemen of the Government, your action plan that you brought in October 2020 on the rights of the disabled. That's the truth! Article 4 on the functioning of the National Authority: Where is the alignment, ladies and gentlemen, of the draft law with the European acquis, as you say, when this new institution falls exclusively to the Prime Minister? Why is this concentration that excludes SMEs from the central decisions and their implementation, which will be the political choices of each government for many time? And I say this because it is possible for people with disabilities to have no basic reason in designing and evaluating any strategies that will be developed by a fully-controlled government-controlled national authority alone? Again, our fellow citizens are staying outside the centres of decision making. Unfortunately, that is the reality! Another important point of the bill is the innovation of the setting up of a National Committee of Bioethics and Technology, in order to address the great challenge of our times, the rights and role of man in a world of rapid technological developments and changes. The coronary actually imposed a digital world, a new environment in which man moves from now on. It is therefore a question of the humanitarian dimension not to be absorbed by technology. The problem of this also arises in Article 23. What does "technological" mean? Does it mean the evolution of all we've been living for a year with the pandemic, the masks and the restraining measures in a nightmare world like Orwell's? I say this because there is no scientific documentation of the term 'technological', so it allows interpretations that may not serve humans. All this - you know - reminds me of the notorious'methodism', where humanity is lost for the sake of technology. In a digital totalitarian state that controls everything, where are personal data going? Instead of technological progress improving our lives, it will lead us to a global tyranny. This cooperation shall be established by Article 23 and by the term 'technics'. Which body will define the functioning and objectives of the committee? Is there going to be a citizen's consent? What democracy are we talking about when the committee delivers an opinion without transparency as if it were a council above the law and without a broader involvement? These are only a few concerns born of Part III of the draft law, which essentially adds to the bizarre concept of technology. We Greeks, with the Christian tradition of centuries, express our concerns about the real targeting of the government. The Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos once again warns in time about the comings. I hope that the virus will not turn our lives into a technological hell, but remain what we have learned from children, people and Greeks! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulos. You only talked nine minutes about the bill. Good for you! So we closed the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. The second cycle of speakers with a natural presence will be opened by Efstathos Konstantinides from Kozani. At the beginning, I've got a lot of north. So Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. All with you Presidents, I take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u121	Aren't you happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u122	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every bill usually refers to or has an impact on one or some social groups. However, the issues within the spheres of competence of the National Accessibility Authority, the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology are of concern to us all. And we are concerned not on the basis of an abstract or potential situation, but on the normal course of things in our lives. In relation to the first, the National Accessibility Authority, its reference area extends to the policies of access to disabled people in all areas of human activity in the natural, structured and digital environment, namely not only in some state structures, but also in transport, sports facilities, in educational areas, culture, entertainment, in natural and online services, ultimately in everything that makes up the concept of equal participation in society. However, obstacles to accessibility face a wider number of people, people with some temporary injury, elderly, caravans, toddlers, women in pregnancy, parents with infant chairs. All of these fall within the concept of persons being prevented. They are people who, for some time in their lives, have difficulty in movement, hearing, vision, perception, communication, or adaptation, according to the definition of the World Health Organisation. It is estimated that one in two citizens of the European Union is likely not to be able to use the existing urban infrastructure, thus creating inequality and risks of marginalisation. Therefore, accessibility in the structured environment to services and commodities is a precondition for ensuring human rights, which the other National Commission, as provided for in Article 10 of the draft law, has to serve. But just as the issues of accessibility do not only concern people with disabilities, so human rights and their violation do not only concern prisoners, refugees, or some population minorities, but all of us who, in our daily lives, seek services and services from the state and guarantee the functioning of the institutions of the rule of law. Therefore, an expression of this protection of our rights can be a hospital, a courtroom or a school, but also the store or e-shop, where the seller must observe the framework for protecting our personal data, or the laboratory where the doctor must make prudent use of our biological material, and finally, the manager of an instrument for social networking with regard to the exploitation of our preferences, religious faith and our political convictions. In the latter examples, the powers of the second committee meet those of the third committee on bioethics and technology, whose establishment and mission is provided for in Article 30 of the draft law. Initially, its subject is the same distant one and is finally as close to our lives as the two other committees. Every time we activate our mobile or computer or open a smart TV or maybe we use an electronic card for a payment, for a purchase or even a Facebook post, we actually mobilise a sequence of actions and entries that create the so-called big data. That is, a huge pool of data recording and testifying to our wishes, buying or even more personal habits, where we are. Some other applications of everyday life count and store our pulses, our pulses, our oxygen, they appreciate our psychological mood and tell us it's time to work out. So technical intelligence is no longer a science fiction movie scenario. It is an element of our everyday life of the most simple applications, such as the automatic dictionary on the keyboard and the recognition of our face on our mobile phone, until the most complex ones approaching the acquisition of autonomous intelligence by a robot. We are therefore at the beginning of a new industrial revolution which is already causing significant changes in the structures of production, the working environment, our standard of living and our social relations. But we also live at a time when a coronary type reduces the expectation of American citizens' lives by 1,13 years. The scientific community quickly discovers the vaccine and yet large parts of society are distrusted. The world feels that the element of morality is lacking from technological and scientific achievements. This role is called upon to do bioethics and technology, ensuring that the aim of improving the level of life of people, from the progress of science and technology, does not lead to the threat of our human nature and our culture. Entities that have an obvious affinity in their structure, function and distinctive objects shall have an important scope of action. They are absolutely necessary for our institutional framework and adequately equipped to serve the objectives set. That is why they have been widely accepted at the stage of parliamentary dialogue by the social partners, representatives of the social groups. Finally, Mr President, let me close this position with a proposal to the President-in-Office, the House and the Bureau, as the President is here. Because we are talking today about human rights, new technologies and accessibility, we may be able to consider supporting certain parliamentary procedures, such as today, by rendering the debate in the Greek sign language or even the audiovisual material of the electronic platform of this House to be accompanied by subtitles, which would help people with hearing problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Irene Agathopoulos is called to Step by SYRIZA and the very hospitable Kilkis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the debate on today's bill on three national principles relating to human rights is unfortunately not empty in time, but you can understand that, although you might want it to be done in a space of time. It is at a very charged negative juncture, it is at a time when human rights are seeing that day after day they are trampled by your Government, which has devalued concepts of democracy, individual and social freedoms, rule of law, individual and social rights. On the Government of Samaras, Minister, we thought we had seen everything, but we had not yet seen the Government of Mr. Mitsotakis. Let us see, then, what social background is the debate on today's bill, which is what you want to avoid discussing, what is going on outside, in society while we are discussing this bill. First, police rule and repression everywhere. Yesterday, once again, we witnessed extreme events of police violence and repression, this time within the Aristotle University. It was the premiere of applying the law on the introduction of police at the universities that you voted on last week. The videos and images released, Mr. Minister, did you see them from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki? As a man, as a university professor, as Minister, are you proud of what you saw? You did not say a word, even though you were provoked by colleagues. Second, apart from police rule, we have censorship and propaganda. Freedom of speech and media pluralism are severely affected as long as you govern. Pecha lists, the direct control of ERT from Maximou, the wallpapers attached to the ERT corridors for the Prime Minister's Coronary Party in Ikaria and Lignade are only a few examples of how this government has in mind the information of citizens. Clearly manipulated. Third, rule of law. A man these days, I'm talking about Dimitris Koufantina, condemned, imprisoned, but a man is in danger of losing his life. Our democracy is in danger of losing its credibility forever. Those who, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, defend the application of the law - because we defend the law in question, but also for every prisoner, for every citizen, we do not defend his actions in any way - we defend a democracy and a rule of law that does not punish, is not avenged, but respects the human existence, the laws and rules of a modern democracy. Because, as you falsely said, he does not want to choose prison, he wants the law to be implemented. That's true, too, Minister. Tell all academics, the whole community that's reacting right now to what your government does. Yesterday, we again saw a video of refugee retreats in the Aegean. You saw it, too, I guess. I'm talking about Lesvos. We saw embarrassing images, police officers closing into a container of men, women and children for many hours and then throwing them at sea. And that's why you have to say a word, if you approve such practices, and if you leave society and the perpetrators of these practices, rewarding them with your silence, to operate with the laws of the jungle in that country. And I will lately leave the covert of the Linguid case that your Government has been trying for days, in a politically incomprehensible and embarrassing way that calls into question the functioning of this country's institutions, to cover up. Because we have not described you as pedophiles, as unfortunately a colleague here, a member of the New Democracy, Mr Papadimitriou, has tried to characterize homosexuals, deliberately or otherwise, which I do not know and which he must clarify. So we blame you and blame you for covering up. We also blame Mrs Mendoni - and as long as she does not resign - and your Prime Minister and all your government. And you come in this context and you want to discuss human rights and the bill. But we can't do this in a space of time. What, then, do you want to discuss when you do not respect the basic principles of the accessibility of disabled and national human rights committees? In particular, you say that all operators agreed to the hearing. And if we were a body involved in these committees we would agree, we would have no reason to disagree. But we're not a body. We are a party, we are a Dedicated Opposition and our role is to exercise control over you, to ensure the public interest and the functioning of existing state mechanisms, not to applaud you as long as you enlarge the Final State. So why are we against it? Why are you setting up a National Accessibility Authority, a so-called independent authority, but again with the Prime Minister, who appoints the majority of its members, so it is completely controlled and in all respects independent. The important thing, however, is that it does not offer any tangible solution to the problems of the disabled. It is not, therefore, an upgrade of disability issues, but a deterioration. What will this national authority contribute to? In the growth of the Staff State, new opaque recruitments with fat wages and nothing else on the substance. You continue your permanent tactics in the legislature to substitute the state's function by supposedly independent bodies and committees, showing a protagonist interest in the disabled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why pretext? Because the Government of New Democracy was in 2014 with Minister Mitsotakis, who is currently a Prime Minister, who abolished the accessibility offices that had been established in public services to control the access of disabled people to the natural and structured environment. What else pretext? Because a few days ago we passed the bill on the functioning of the media which, in all things, said and the obligation of media service providers to increase the accessibility of their services to people with disabilities. You have voted for it, you have left it a wish, no timetable, no sanctions or nothing. We recommend, however, a National Power of Accessibility with a barbaric title to say we're okay. We want actions. We want you to continue the policy for the disabled from where the SYRIZA government left it and not other wishes. With regard to the ECHR - I am closing, Mr President - what are you doing here? Squeeze on her recommendation and make her more manipulated. Fortunately, you listen to the bodies in the committees and keep to the members of the committee a representative of the National Bioethics Commission, but also to the representatives of the parties, because in the first committee we have said so, you have dealt with a huge disgrace, which I think is not a match either to your face or to your capacity. But at least you heard the agencies, since you didn't want to hear us, that's something. Finally, with regard to the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology you choose to add to the Committee on Bioethics and Technology. They are very specific subjects, both, but we do not see in the law that, as was the case before, specific scientific expertise on the subject to be addressed by the committee is still available to the Prime Minister. We are concerned about this fact, Minister, we do not hide it. We are also concerned about all the above that is evolving out in society and for all these reasons we will continue to control you from this step and in general whether you like it or not. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mrs Agathopoulos. I am not only referring to Mrs Agathopoulos, I say this to those who will follow and, in particular, to Webex, there is a bill that we are discussing. I am not saying that you should not refer to topicality, that the Member of Parliament is not in glass, but just a few minutes in news and more about the bill. He wants to hear something, and the Minister wants to make some corrections. We're going next to Katerini at Ms. Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the protection of human rights and the safeguarding of social equality are not just components of every modern European state, but also demonstrate the level of culture of every people. For us Greeks all people are equal to rights and must be equal to opportunities. In this direction, moreover, the charter of our country is structured, our Constitution has many provisions that show the State's obligation to protect the rights of people with disabilities and to take concrete measures to facilitate them. Thus, for example, Article 21 of the Constitution, which strengthens the social state, acquires special value, and Article 5a also ensures accessibility of such persons to the information society, a precondition for the exercise of their other fundamental rights. In line with the above, the Government is working with a specific plan to eliminate all forms of social exclusion and ensure equal access to opportunities for all. One of the legislative initiatives implementing this project is the current draft law of the Minister of State, Mr Gerapititi, setting up three independent authorities, three committees with wide competences, monitoring, coordinating, formulating proposals, but also advising the State with a view to more effective defence of the rights of people with disabilities and of human rights in general. While very important for assessing their work is the provision for drawing up an annual report, which will be submitted not only to the Prime Minister, but also to the President of Parliament, to the Heads of the Parties, to the European Parliament and to special standing committees of the House. In the first part of the bill, the National Accessibility Authority is set up for the first time. This new authority will be the advisor to the state in all matters relating to disability and will be directly subject to the Prime Minister, but also to the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the specific project. The principle will be the government's main donor to the actions to be developed in the context of the National Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities presented some two months ago. This is an ambitious, horizontal, holistic plan that attempts for the first time since the Greek state was set up to deal with the disability problem cross-sectorally as a whole, and until now it has been dealt with by individual legislation. Then in the second part of the bill, the National Committee for Human Rights is upgraded and strengthened by acquiring legal personality and therefore administrative and financial self-sufficiency, while also serving in close cooperation with both Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency and with all ministries. And an important element, which I would like to highlight and emerged from the position of representatives of environmental organisations in the hearing of the bodies, is that the Committee on Human Rights is now responsible for protecting the natural environment. It is a regulation that is truly necessary if we consider the consequences of climate change, as well as that it is a duty for all of us to look after future generations from now and at legislative level for the right to the environment and climate justice. Finally, in the third part of the bill, the National Bioethics Commission is moving to a National Bioethics and Technical Committee. It is a development that is deemed necessary in order to address the new ethical, social and legal issues arising from the development of science and technology. This is another important legislative intervention in line with international standards that meet the requirements of times. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that, in bills such as today, there are no political and party conflicts. What is important is the common good, the improvement of the life and everyday life of our people. They have, of course, been heard by the Opposition, especially by the Qualifications, but also proposals, such as the establishment of a State Secretary for Disability. But does anyone wonder why, in the five and a half years of their government, they did not go ahead with its implementation? Apparently, they didn't have time. Besides, the appropriate answers were given by the Minister, Mr. Gerapitris, who literally exhausted all margins of composition and consensus. I mention features that he has accepted most of the proposals submitted by representatives of the bodies, who have all been put in a positive position on the draft law. And this is a crucial point, which should give thought to the Members who are voting against it, and also to the colleagues of the Officerial Response who have devoted very little time to today's bill to this public debate. Ladies and gentlemen, you must realise at some point that social sensitivity is not the prerogative of specific parties. The Government of New Democracy is taking a step forward - step by step, the national plan for our fellow citizens with disabilities. This also contributes to the rapid development of digital governance, which is being carried out and demonstrated by the ninety million digital certificates issued so far. In the digital services of the state everyone has equal access, and the government will continue to do so until the obstacles to disabled people are removed, so that they can get to where they want, without obstacles to movement, education, entertainment, work, on every aspect of the social, economic and political life of the place, until there are equal opportunities for all, just as Article 2 of our Constitution requires, in which respect and protection of human value is the primary obligation of the state, so our primary obligation is for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mrs Papadimitriou, and respect for the time. Until the Step is cleared, I will give the Minister Gerapetritis the floor for some legislative improvements so that they can then be distributed and move on. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Incorporating most of the remarks made during the procedure of the competent Standing Parliamentary Committee and what was put forward today by the majority of Members of Parliament, I am tabling forty-five legislative regulations. I would simply point out the most important things that are known. I have already said from the committee stage that they will be accepted. It shall be added to the members of the National Accessibility Authority, the Citizens' Counselor or the Assistant Counselor designated by him. Active citizens included in the composition of the National Accessibility Authority may not exceed two as requested by the ESDC. The Chair of the National Accessibility Authority and the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology shall be divided by the Parliament in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Just to mention, because it was put forward by Merra25, by Mrs Adamopoulos, that there is no reference to an article in the Rules of Procedure, because in accordance with Rule 67 of the Constitution due to the autonomy of Parliament it should be incorporated into the House following the draft legislative provision, which expressly provides for it. "According to the Rules of Procedure" is standard practice. With regard to the confidential documents, which had been discussed, I should first of all like to point out that in the case of confidential documents there was already access to both the chairman of the National Commission for Human Rights and the chairman of the National Bioethics Commission. With these laws we eliminate access to confidentiality for the two authorities, the National Accessibility Authority and the Bioethics and Technical Committee. And for the case of the National Committee on Human Rights an exception is introduced for classified documents relating to national defence, state security and international relations - the Parliament's Scientific Service pointed this out - as is the case with the Citizens' Counselor. In addition, a representative of the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology is added to the ECHR, as we have said. Representatives of the parties are added as functional links to the National Commission for Human Rights. Finally, as has been mentioned by speakers, the possibility of derogating from the three institutions is eliminated. The question of 'derogation' was about the fact that, in the absence of organograms in these committees, the possibility of secondment is not allowed under the law. In any event, it is laid down, after the abolition of the ‘derogation’, that the transfers and secondments shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions in force and only for the transitional period until the publication of the agencies. But - and this is important, because Mr Kamine has also been posted, I think - there is no possibility of a secondment without the agreement of the posting body, so that there is no problem following the administration of the agency to which the worker is going. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Minister. As you understand, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister hears and makes corrections. That is why we have to refer to the bill. Mr Konstantinos Maravegias, Member of the New Democracy by the beautiful Volos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Just a few seconds ago, Minister, you showed us that the government - and you personally - is listening and when the labels are in the right direction, they are being agitated, regardless of where they come from. It is for this reason that people with disabilities are following it with particular interest, ladies and gentlemen. Because the feeling I have gained from my successive meetings last week, with representatives of special education and the disabled in Magnesia, is that they are anxiously awaiting all this set of provisions which are proposed in today's bill. As a doctor, I am pleased that the needs of the HEIs and their families are recognized in practice by a government that does not remain in the words. But as a Member of the New Democracy, I am pleased that this is done by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. The National Accessibility Authority bill comes to create something that should be part of an executive. We are creating a centre for coordinating all policies and measures in favour of SMEs, but in particular for monitoring their implementation. This is an instrument directly based on the Prime Minister, not as a forum for discussion or reflection, but as a centre for government action, which will resolve the issues of the LEADs, always in direct cooperation with the relevant ministries. It is essentially the beginning of a new strategic initiative of the state and under no circumstances is the end of the efforts of the Mitsotakis Government for disabled people. I would remind you, briefly, of the most recent measures taken in their favour, such as the vaccination of children with disabilities against COVID -19. The principle was followed by special treatment and vaccination of all pupils over 16 years of age. However, I am sure that the Ministry of Education will continue in the same direction by putting younger age students in high school and primary school. In the Ministry of Labour, led by Kostis Hatzidakis, the process of calling for appointments to the public through the OAED is being carried out. Law 2643/1998 requires a single notice for all available posts in protected categories, but the figures for each individual operator are set. This is the work that is being done now, and I am sure that in 2021 we will have this notice from the OAED, which unfortunately did not take place during the days of the SYRIZA government, causing the legitimate complaints of both people with disabilities and their relatives. Recent intervention by the Ministry of the Environment was also made by making facilities available to enhance accessibility of the buildings by SMEs, such as the possibility of building special ramps outside the line or adding lifts to buildings where there is no provision. Also important were the inclusion in December of species needed to the blind, such as spades, special typewriters, printers, special software and mobile phone programs and wristwatches at the over-reduced VAT rate of 6%. At the same time, we also voted for provisions which reduce the disability rate to 80% for those having visual problems in order to exempt from traffic charges and registration fees when obtaining new vehicles. These tax reliefs also come to supplement corresponding reductions for other categories of HEIs that we have already implemented. Finally, increased quotas for the recruitment of MEDIs to the public, which we have legislated for the competitions of AIP from 10% to 12%, is one of the latest measures adopted by the Government of New Democracy in favour of people with disabilities. At the same time, all the quotas for recruitment are maintained through APA of relatives of AMEs at 5% on all the public posts declared. It is also important that the system of prioritisation remains for SMEs, i.e. with a file of supporting documents for recruitment to be fair, but above all for them to be swiftly implemented. Minister, it is certain that safeguarding the rights of people with disabilities cannot be achieved by automation. It needs the long-term horizon set out in the National Action Plan on the Rights of LEADER. However, we also need day-to-day monitoring of the compliance of all of us, for example with the legislation on accessibility of buildings and services, because unfortunately nothing goes wrong. On the contrary, it is necessary to monitor all bodies in order to implement their statutory obligations, as is necessary to assess the good implementation of public policies. The common objective can only be one: the increased participation of all SMEs in each aspect of social, economic and public life in our country. In conclusion, I would like to put forward a number of relevant proposals which have brought me representatives of the disabled movement from my own country of Magnesia. The first issue is the supply of tablets and computers for disabled children. As has already been noted, a new programme for the free supply of tele­vision equipment is soon to be launched for students and students. Here the Ministry of Education can and must immediately see how to join the vouchers of the two hundred euros and students and students with disabilities. Another proposal from institutions in Magnesia concerning the wheelchair community throughout the country is the change in the way in which the disability certification centres, known CEPRs, operate. It is a well-known issue that is part of the general functional problems of e-ECA. Anyone who has ever had to be examined by a health committee, unfortunately, is, at first hand, aware of the great shortages of infrastructure in the CSDP. This, of course, has nothing to do with the worthy doctors and his worthy staff e - EVA who are trying to serve our fellow humans with chronic illnesses and disabilities every day. In relation to infrastructure for AME again, I would like to convey to you the image they themselves gave me during my visit last Friday at the Training and Training Laboratory of Almyros. It was about the building problem facing other educational structures not only in Magnesia, but also in various regions of the country. Of course it is the municipalities who take the initiative to upgrade school infrastructure and the Ministry of Interior is what it provides funds through its funding programmes. But the Ministry of Education has to play the central role not just by representing specifications for new school units, but by coordinating all those involved, so that they quickly mature the necessary projects and become part of the Public Investment Programme in time. Only then will we see the modernisation of both general and special education, especially for children with learning problems that are perhaps the most sensitive part of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u131	Thank you too, Mr. Maraveya. The reason is now Mrs. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA, who is elected to the 2nd West Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone looks at the bills brought by Mr Mitsotakis' government for twenty months behind each article, every legislative initiative also has a particular philosophy, the philosophy of strengthening a deep party state on the right. Whatever you as government can't control, change it, remove it and reconstitute it. This also appears in this draft law on the ECHR, the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Bioethics and Technology. What I would like to say, however, is that it is limited by the arrangements that the participation of the social partners is doing. There is no institutionalised representation of the House in the ECHR. On the other hand, you are changing the relationships in this way to serve you, to create new positions, which of course new positions are positions for your own children. Besides, the great case that is shocking, I would say, the pan-Hellenic one these days has to do with the case of the National Theatre and Mr Lignade, shows exactly this logic, how the government understands the administration's staffing. However, it cannot be said that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is not placed specifically. There are questions: Who appointed him? Why was the transparent recruitment framework and the National Theatre abolished with an international notice prepared by the SYRIZA? Of course we are all waiting for justice to do its job, but society is asking for answers. The government cannot dissociate itself. One day, Mr. Taradilis talking about resignations on personal grounds and a few days later, Mr. Skretsos, the Undersecretary, saying that it is not a matter of personal reasons. The important thing is where the Prime Minister is in all this? Of course, the failure of your Executive State is also seen in the areas of social, political and economic life. I cannot say what we have been through last week in this very bad weather that the government once again makes self-determination when it passes on laws that will solve the problems of coordination and disaster response - I am talking about Law 4662 of Civil Protection - and it is now coming and says that Mr Petsas will make legislation from the Ministry of Interior on coordination. Mitsotakis Government absolves the legislative work of Mitsotakis Government. I now come to the bill, and that is the important thing because they hear us with our disabled fellow citizens, because our disabled fellow citizens are around 18% of the population who, along with their families and escorts, can reach all three million and we must bend carefully to the bill. And because I have listened to many of my fellow Members from New Democracy in particular that they are in the direction of the disabled, and so on, I shall make a distinction between trade unions and, in essence, between natural persons with disabilities. I shall mention, however, from the consultation that 68% was contrary to the regulations. 20% asked for some changes and additions. And only 7% were those who said that it is positive at all. Of course, the important thing is, it didn't bring anything new. What I am going to say is not about all the Members of Parliament and the Parliament of the New Democracy, but about the main body. The perception of the perpetuation of inequalities - let me say - is a key element of your policy and your perception. And I say this again, it does not concern anyone in the New Democracy either as parliamentarians or as political officials or as voters. Our Prime Minister in 2019 said - and that is the New Democracy's logic reflected in every bill -: 'I can't imagine a society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature." This is what Mr Mitsotakis said to IDM, who, as Minister of Administrative Reconstruction in 2014, abolished the accessibility offices in addition to a number of other changes he made. So you come and you create the National Accessibility Authority, another independent authority directly to the Prime Minister. It is purely prime minister state, administration everything in Greece, with an advisory role. Of course it will be supervised by the Prime Minister who appoints six to eleven members and it is clear that he will have control at all levels. Alongside the other national authorities, there is actually the service of interests, the new positions I mentioned before, but of course the new jobs in this area, at the same time as the pandemic is reducing the financial resources for the disabled. Here I would like to say that 88 million less is in the budget than in 2019. Everything that the SYRIZA government left in this area, which was good to go through - does not mean that everything has been completed - you do not always use them to the benefit of people with disabilities, rather than to the functionality, as the Pissaridis report says about the proposals for disabled people, forgetting that disability needs horizontal treatment, which means that it involves a number of bodies. That's why our proposal is specific. In the rule of SYRIZA we changed things after forty years, with Law 4488/2017, with the application of provisions of a United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in Insurance, in Labour, in the Code of Civil Procedure, with the Law 4549 on Social Solidarity, OPEKA, KEPA, community centres, electronic file and arrangements in special education. We have specific proposals tabled. I shall refer to two important elements: the part of accessibility in buildings, which relates to a number of regulations relating to the transition, the movement of our disabled fellow citizens in all public buildings. Over and above the current legislation and after digital recording, set timetables and budgets for three years. A programme for accessible cities. A specific programme for tourism, which we planned with people with disabilities. Finally, on the occasion of the Memorandum of Understanding of the Greek Federation, I would like to refer to the fact that the House, Mr President, must take an initiative, give a message, if you wish, that every one of our strong fellow citizens and a man with hearing problems should be able to monitor both the wholehearted and the committees with substitutism. It is something that was also discussed at the Conference of Presidents in the previous term, which I then participated. We have to give a message like that. Minister, forty thousand pensions, first pensions, disabled fellow citizens are pending. If you really want to support the world, especially in this difficult pandemic period, the government must immediately issue these pensions. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kafantari. I imagine you're talking about meetings like today, because at the level of political leaders there is a person.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u134	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u135	You're right. It's been recorded. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head, Yanotisa, from New Democracy, has the floor. You also celebrated liberation recently on February 21st.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our country despite the rapid progress of technology and the promotion of knowledge, there is still a great category of citizens who face difficulties in accessing infrastructures and premises because of their individual specificities. This results in the exacerbation of social inequalities, which can lead us to serious marginalisation problems for these people. I would like to give you a few examples from my region, Yannina, where from the customs office of Cacavia, which is also a gateway to the European Union, to the sites of cultural heritage, are not given special form, such as the placement of a bar for all citizens to have access. Through the Committee on Social Affairs and Equality, Youth and Human Rights we are trying to help resolve such problems with proposals for improvements in cooperation with the relevant bodies and authorities. The accessibility of all citizens stems from the constitutional right to equality and the right to freedom of movement. It is interconnected in the deepest sense of participation in society and life and is an essential condition for ensuring equal rights for all citizens. A state to be regarded as a social state of law should be particularly sensitive to the issues of living throughout the everyday life of our fellow peoples with disabilities. The way in which the issue of accessibility for people with disabilities mirrors a state's culture. In this area, our country still has a number of steps to take. Suffices to see hiking paths without access infrastructure for people with disabilities, schools without special ramps or infrastructures for children with disabilities and behaviours that undermine human value. Interventions have certainly taken place at times, but they are fragmentary. A draft law, therefore, which will establish the preconditions and define the framework for assistance to these people, was imperative. We are also voting for such a draft law today. For the first time, we are creating, ladies and gentlemen, a principle that safeguards and regulates the rights of people with disabilities, the National Accessibility Authority, an authority that operates interactively and complementaryly with the state. For the first time, we guarantee the rights of people with disabilities. A principle that will be the symbol, but also the State's advisor on all issues relating to the access of disabled people to all expressions of human activity in the public area, buildings, cultural sites, education. We are recommending an authority to monitor compliance of procedures with Community and national accessibility legislation. A principle which aims to raise awareness and inform the public of accessibility issues and defines a framework for education and technical assistance in this area. With a full programme for the progress of indicators, which will provide evaluation and measurable sizes. We thus create a single national coordination centre that controls and monitors all accessibility issues. The second substantial action that we are discussing today is the change in the institutional framework governing the National Committee on Human Rights. The National Committee on Human Rights will produce proposals that improve the legal and institutional framework for the protection of human rights. Our aim is to put an end to all forms of racist behaviour, discrimination and human rights violations. Furthermore, the National Bioethics Commission is moving to the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology. Through progress and development in medicine, genetic medicine, biotechnology, biology and developments in new technologies, such as robotics, artificial intelligence, the application of new technologies, we look forward to a better and safer future. At the same time, however, new ethical challenges emerge with the rapid technological development of the time. They are being questioned in principle, because it is still an unknown field to us. This technological development also requires the modernisation of legislation. All sciences must be compatible with human and individual rights. The National Committee for Bioethics and Technology will be responsible for investigating the ethical, social and legal dimensions, because technology, like all sciences, must serve man. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is timely, a modern piece of legislation that answers today's questions and tomorrow's challenges towards ensuring that people with disabilities and human rights are guaranteed. The fact that these three new national committees come under the Prime Minister's authority shows the scope, but also the validity of this legislative initiative. Trust and trust in scientific knowledge have been strengthened. This scientific knowledge is essentially what we want to capitalise through these special committees - state advisers, in order to solve the problem, in a new era where the accessibility of disabled people everywhere will be seen as given. The independent living of disabled people and equal and unaccessable access everywhere are elements of a society's democracy. We are building up a national strategy and a single coordination for a comprehensive restoration of accessibility. It is time for our people to enter the production process with disabilities through the technological capacity to be given to them. Our priority is to upgrade the infrastructure so as to ensure the uninterrupted access of all and to highlight the face of a Greece that has never lost its values or sensitivity, particularly to the participation of all citizens. Our task is to inform and raise awareness of all, but also of a set of political acts with reforms and to introduce strict standards to emphasise the importance of equal opportunities for all. It's a minimum proof of respect for these citizens. Only through this philosophy will we be able to talk about a truly sustainable country and its development and a safe and approachable environment for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Head. You're always in your time. Mr Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government, through the Minister of State, is today proposing to plenary a draft law which aims to upgrade the exercise of executive power in respect of respect for human rights by the State. Three advisory bodies, which will be directly subject to the Prime Minister, are being created or developed, thus highlighting the importance of the issues that are being dealt with and on the one hand the intention of disseminating their work from the centre of executive power through the Executive State. Our society is developing rapidly, especially at the time of information. The state must adapt in time and I think that this possibility of adapting is the greatest benefit in voting on the draft law under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been living in pandemic for a year now. Its effects have forced us all to adjust our habits. We spend most of our time in our homes, while our own travel, our own work, and even our simpler transactions, for example with the public, have made it difficult if they have not become impossible. So these particular experiences give us a little picture of the daily life of many of our fellow citizens, even before the pandemic. And of course I am referring to disabled people. The establishment of the National Accessibility Authority is aimed at accessing disabled people to all manifestations of human activity. Why, let us not make a fool of ourselves, whether in the case of sidewalks and ramps, or bureaucratic procedures adapted to people with limited vision or in the range of autism, access for disabled people, despite efforts in recent years, remains quite limited even for structures of small and medium-sized enterprises or public services. In Pella there is a special school that does not have toilets for disabled persons. In Giannitsa courts a car-mobile individual has access exclusively to the ground floor via the ramp at the entrance, but not to the other floors, as the building does not have an elevator. So is the court of peace, and so is the prosecutor's office. Throughout the Regional Unit Pellas there is not a single playground for LEADER. Those who have little children can understand what this means, especially now that restrictive measures apply. It is our responsibility, therefore, to ensure that people with disabilities are given the best possible access, on an equal footing, to all human activities. I believe that the creation of the principle will facilitate the proper and sound information of decision-making bodies on accessibility issues. The Government has already demonstrated that it can adapt sensitively to the issues of disabled persons. We have now seen it with the pandemic and the forecasts for the smooth functioning of the special schools or the integration of their members into the current vaccination period. In closing, on behalf of the National Authority, I would like to ask, Minister, for the statement as soon as possible in the House of the National Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which I know you have personally dealt with, so that we can talk about these issues as a whole. I now move on, Mr President, to the upgrading of the two national committees. I will again invoke our recent experience with the pandemic, which highlighted the importance of scientific, technological knowledge in the decision-making process. The executive must at all times have access to quality scientific knowledge, be it emergency situations or during its day-to-day exercise. This is now something clear in Greek society too, as citizens' confidence in scientific knowledge has increased. With the new structure, the National Committee for Human Rights acquires administrative and financial autonomy, taking on an essential role, with expanded responsibilities. A corresponding enlargement is also achieved in the National Bioethics Commission, as the issues of technology are also included, which I am sure will be looking at very soon in this House. The state must provide for the development of technology in fields such as artificial intelligence and timely regulation of any social implications. Minister, the national strategy for artificial intelligence must also be completed soon. It is a question of the daily lives of citizens - consumers, but also of the private sector, industry, the supply chain and much more. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to raise the issue of consensus and call on the ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents to support the draft law under discussion. The Minister, as I have seen in the relevant debate in the committee, has incorporated some ten proposals from the institutions and from the opposition. I would like to mention the proposal for a hearing from the House of the President of the National Accessibility Authority. After all, ladies and gentlemen, social movements, such as disabled people in this area or the environment, are not and should not be ideological in terms of increasing the quality of life of citizens. That is why, in a draft law like today, consensus is of particular value and I call on the House to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliadis. You're always in your time. The second cycle of speakers with a natural presence will be completed by Mrs Panayios Poulos, MP of Boeotias by SYRIZA. I would ask the Members who are in Webex to listen to me. We will start with Mr. Ypsilanti and will follow Mrs. Jufi and Mr. Fotillas. Mrs Pulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill creating a new beginning and intervening in two other existing national committees. Their common point is the safeguarding of human rights. However, the debate is taking place in the context of a topical and urgent debate which also relates to the area of rights. The courageous decision of Sofia Bekateros to speak sparked the outbreak of the Greek "Me too" which has so far culminated in the arrest of the former director of the National Theatre. Society, in the midst of all these unprecedented developments, revolves into a toxic climate of revelations, complaints, sues, controversies, scenes and rumors. It is stunned, shocked and angry in the agony of pandemic, a second storm that has from everything, from the made speech to the delirium and the mud. The parties involved must speak clearly, with responsibility and braveness. It will also be an act which will facilitate the return to peace if we have not already gone through the point of no return. First of all, we must find out who appointed the artistic director of the National Theatre, since it did not arise from a competition, which, under the responsibility of the Government, was abolished, nor from a decision of a collective body, with the data so far. So the person who chose Lignade must speak, explain, take the political responsibility of choice and ask, if anything, for apologies from the Greek people. That is what political culture and democracy are demanding. Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill we are debating today, I will concentrate on the National Accessibility Authority, a new authority set up by the Government following the drafting of the action plan on the rights of the disabled last November. It is a positive plan as an intention but a little less subtle than the needs of the disabled and with many problems that we hope will be corrected in the process. The issue of disability, the inclusion of disabled people in society, the achievement of a real equivalence of attitudes to disability, is of enormous importance for culture and the fundamental deepening of democracy. The SYRIZA Government has launched a programme of substantial reforms that meets the needs and demands of the disabled. It rejected the International Monetary Fund's requirement to implement the system of evaluation based on the functionality of the disabled, rescued the privileged benefits and disconnected the benefits for people with mental disabilities from the acquisition of work. It changed the institutional framework of special education. It has established a number of special training and training workshops throughout the country and has supported them through the recruitment of special education teachers. He started dehydration programs, roofs of supported living. It legislated 15% of public recruitment for both people with disabilities and their families. Finally, it legislated on social cooperatives for integration and more. It was a strategic plan integrated into rescue first and then building a modern and sustainable social state. By exploiting the potential created by this policy, during my term of office in the Municipality of Levadeon we faced the daily problems of the disabled and their families with important interventions: Social policy for vulnerable citizens with support structures. Establishment of the Livada Agency. Establishment of an annex to the CSR. We have improved infrastructure by ensuring the construction of a new special primary school. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of accessibility is not limited to ramps and sign language. It is much deeper and requires a profound social change. The need for equality needs a holistic plan involving the disabled themselves. The government's perception, beyond verbal proclamations and communication images, is old. In fact, he advocates the attitude that man must reconcile with his disability if his state ensures that he is typically accessible. It does not, however, include the field of social action, namely the changes in society, which must be adapted to the different requirements and needs of humans. This change concerns all aspects of social life for the universal inclusion of the disabled. It should include measures to remove obstacles, discriminate, unequal treatment and ensure services, allowances and benefits that eliminate inequalities. As a result, what the state handicapped need is not a list of actions which exist in international bodies' decisions, but instruments. They need to prioritise and ensure an implementation and control mechanism to form the framework within which the disabled themselves define the terms and projea of their autonomy and emancipation. SYRIZA in long-term coexistence with the wheelchair movement has adopted their motto "Nothing about us without us". Policies that have been or are being proposed are evicted from this context. Our proposal and commitment to the creation of a Special Purpose State Secretary is a change of level in the philosophy of universal accessibility. The Accessibility Authority, which we are discussing today, is on the reverse of this approach. It has major weaknesses, since it is merely an advisory body, without the means of implementing and monitoring. It is weakening, I would even say, the state's existing structural and control role. In addition, while it has a limited object, it also extends to areas such as training and practice which are the objects of other bodies. Finally, it is part of the Final State, with full control by the Prime Minister, not for fundamental reasons, but for reasons of communication symbolism. After all, the performance of the Career State of Government in all areas so far prescribe the poor future of the principle. In fact, I wonder whether the things you have done so far are still an inability or a political option for you. In particular, in the 2020 budget, there has been a reduction in the expenditure on disability and instead of replacing this amount in the 2021 budget you have again anticipated a reduction, and the implementation of the measures of the Pissaridis Committee is pending. We are also aware of all of us here in this Chamber, but also the disabled in the country, your refusal to support them in the conditions of the pandemic. You refused SYRIZA's proposals for their support, for six months' extension of the disability allowance, for the payment of the allowance to fourteen thousand fellow citizens who have submitted complete files to the OPECA for the first time, the granting of a double disability allowance in December. But not only do you not share their needs, but they are even punished, as if they were responsible for the malfunctions that have occurred in hospitals and CEPOL because of the pandemic conditions. The disabled are once again invisible to you. Minister, really, against these policies, what can such an advisory accessibility principle do? It's not enough. We need to take the step and institutionalise a framework of support that will enable the disabled world to define its life in conditions of real parity. If, indeed, you are interested, use and continue the SYRIZA government's policy with the institution of the assistant or caregiver, with actions to strengthen education and work, with a change in the disability certification process. In this direction, we will be positive. Not in the empty contents of communal drum impacts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Pulu. You don't have to thank me. We are talking about a group of people with special abilities, who two things ask of us: Our interest and our love. That's why I'm not interrupting anyone. Anyone who hangs out with AME, only benefits will have nothing else. They're only asking for our love. We move on to the Speaker's circle through Webex. The Dodecanese MP Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis from New Democracy will open the court. Mr. Ypsilante, you have seven minutes at your disposal. Please, everyone from Webex to watch the time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate on the creation, development and reorganisation of three national committees dealing with human beings is an important and upgraded event for our country. The National Accessibility Authority shall refer to disabled persons and their right to facilitate accessibility to human activities, public and private. The direct submission of this principle to the Prime Minister refers to the State's particular interest in its operation. The Electoral Council and the five staff to cover the positions of scientific and administrative staff will have for their findings the implementation of the National Disability Action Plan and the preparation of proposals, compliance with Union legislation, technical assistance and education measures, internal and international cooperation and public awareness of accessibility issues. The obligation to present a report will create conditions for a substantial evaluation of the work of that authority. There is no doubt that the National Accessibility Authority is established on the basis of the National Action Plan for Persons with Disabilities, as defined in the Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As far as the Committee on Human Rights is concerned, it is given administrative and financial autonomy by changing its institutional framework, by subjecting it to the Prime Minister and by extending its responsibilities in matters relating to human rights, which are raised either by the government or by the parliament or even by the Civil Society. Another important proclamation is the improvement on the basis of proposals from the institutional framework for the protection of human rights, as well as the maintenance of a reliable system for recording racist behaviour and addressing them. The committee will draw up an annual report and it will have an interface with the House's Committee of Institutions and Transparency, as well as with all the Ministries. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Furthermore, it will consist of parts of individual and civil rights, social, economic and political rights, the application of human rights to foreign nationals. It will be financially self-sufficient from the state budget and from other sources, and it will be set up with fifteen organic positions of scientific and administrative staff, as well as two flexible units. One will be for scientific and the other for the administrative and financial organization of the committee. The National Committee for Bioethics and Technology, also subordinated to the Prime Minister, will be an independent consultative body of the State and will have as its task the investigation of the ethical, social and legal consequences in areas in particular biology, biotechnology, medicine and genetics, as well as new technologies: artificial intelligence, advanced algorithms and robotics. The responsibilities of the Committee on Bioethics and Technology are added to the possibility of adopting soft-law acts, i.e. adopting guidelines to the public and private sectors, principles which can be a serious code of conduct for market actions. I have listened very carefully to the intervention of the Deputy Minister, Mrs Michailidou. Beyond the organisation of the National Committees and especially of Accessibility, as analysed by all my fellow Members and we are discussing today, we also have, in essence, the implementation of the programmes in a number of interventions which the current government has made in this very short period of time. Of course, with the very important legislative intervention of the Minister of State, this bill is coming to help with the cases we are voting on today. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government operates on the basis of the principles of the rule of law. It ensures the unobstructed and effective exercise of human rights. And that, in order for there to be true justice and for the progress of society to be made with freedom and justice. This liberal approach seems to be a lot of people here do not adopt it. The other one, however, that has been defended and tested historically, has failed. You insist on the altar of horrific crimes, which is currently being committed by justice, to release against your political opponents toxic mud and slander. You're slipping, ladies and gentlemen. You should be aware that the campaigns of opposition hatred are not helping either the return of justice or the relief of victims and, of course, the case of democracy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u143	I, too, thank you, Mr Ypsilante and for keeping time. Now Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u144	Good evening, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you said that Greece is a rule of law and we do what the Constitution and the law says. However, today's meeting is the echo of yesterday's unacceptable incident at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, where forces invaded, attacked peaceful protesters, students from university students who protested both about the authoritarian law of Kerameos - Chrysochide and about the total absence of a project on the part of the Government for the reopening of universities that remain closed for a continuous year, with significant educational losses for all students, especially those in applied objects and medical studies. We have pointed out to you that this law will strengthen the situation in universities. Nevertheless, I would like you to acknowledge that the images of shame we saw yesterday do not look for honour in our democracy. It is a problem for our democracy that we see all-armed policemen dragging young children into the ground, spraying them with chemicals while they are already immobilized, when they receive first aid. Minister, you're a university partner. These images of violence and repression in one of the country's largest universities are what you look after for students and the new generation? Wood, arrests and chemicals to whom they react? What does this show about the quality of our democracy and where does it lead to university everyday life? I'm waiting for your answers. There have been specific questions from me and other colleagues. In fact, all this is happening when the country faces the third wave of pandemic, with hospitals and a public health system on its limits, with serious health, social and economic insecurity for all citizens, with management and measures to combat resistance and create confusion and irritation among citizens and, of course, with a government that is surrounded by daily revelations, a bourgeoisie in the area of culture. What's your answer? The only answer is the doctrine of 'law and order', unfortunately leading our democracy, day after day, to institutional deflection. The other, of course, key pillar of your policy is overreacting and deliberate distortion of reality. The bill we are discussing today is part of a well-advertised National Action Plan on the rights of people with disabilities, a plan which is presented as a prototype, although it is not, which works on the rights of people with disabilities to ensure that the government, in a communication and, unfortunately, not its so-called pro-healthy profile. We have heard a lot of majestics, but they are far from reality. And why do we say that? Why are we saying that the bill lacks credibility? Because there is a great discrepancy between the declarations and the hard neoliberal policy that is being implemented, since in this year's budget you predicted a hundred million less for uninsured citizens with disabilities and you did not accept any of the SYRIZA proposals to grant allowances to the very difficult conditions of the pandemic and despite the international recommendations that have been made from everywhere, which tell you that in these circumstances, it is the people with disabilities who are most affected. We say, therefore, that exactly these arrangements you bring are wishful, do not have a specific target, do not have a hierarchy of actions, they have deliberate ambiguity in terms of costing and sources of funding. So we're saying that it's probably your own bet, too, to apply the famous principles of the Perfect State in the many-popular area of disability, this multi-advertised, multi-expected, centralised, but in essence of an inefficient state that leaves citizens without current for a number of 24 hours, because - supposedly - the snow was the heaviest one that puts police in universities to blow up democratic air, which pins on notes in the ERT studio, so that they don't display videos from the Prime Minister's coronary in Ikaria. Furthermore, the state that covers and refuses to assume its responsibilities which embodies spouses, relatives and friends, violating all health protocols and, indeed, forgetting people with disabilities and people with chronic diseases which are now being discussed that they should be prioritised and recruited by more posteriori at the offices of the Ministers. This is indeed the first time in this size by a recommendation from a Greek state. You forget, too, that the New Democracy had been abolished since 2014, with the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction then Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the principles of accessibility for the disabled. Nor do you want to remember that there has been a previous attempt by the SYRIZA government with the introduction of Law 4487/2017, which introduced a universal framework for the implementation of the International Convention on Human Rights with Disabilities, a law which, for the first time, tried to deal with people with disabilities and their rights with responsibility and cohesion. You call it 'empty shell'. Instead of taking this as a basis and going further into delays and weaknesses, you are actually erasing it. You forget that in 2017 existing legislation was codified. You forget that the electronic disability file was created. You forget that the diseases that need only initial diagnosis from forty to forty - six have increased, so that people with disabilities are not troubled. You forget that the performance of the disability benefits has been electronized and you say it all starts now. But it's not like that. In addition, I would also like to refer to a crucial point that has not been discussed today, which, in my view, is an important pillar of integration, socialisation, accessibility, diagnosis and treatment, which is the area of education and training in particular. It is the first and perhaps the most important path that can lead to a decent and independent living for people with disabilities. In this direction, and despite the monumental compulsions, this space has become a systematic effort to strengthen, taking into account the effort to promote the integration of all children with disabilities, based on international scientific and pedagogical practices in the context of inclusive education. What was the first step? And that is my answer to Mrs Michailidou, who today came here with a very great deal of impulse, that nothing has been done and everything is now. Do you know, Mrs. Michailidou, that children with disabilities or other problems were not registered, development or learning, anywhere and in 2016, for the first time, there was a database to know how many of these children and what educational needs they have? And this led to a progressively increasing number of children reaching about ten thousand of whom ninety thousand were in general education. That is precisely why we have more than doubled the recruitment of assistants to special education, we have increased the membership courses where new school units have been added. And of course, we have planned four thousand five hundred permanent appointments for the first time through the ADP, which Mrs Keramos of course is trying to present as her own work, while unnecessarily delaying them. There are other things, such as the full-day programme in special schools and primary schools, the launch of a new type of school that was the special vocational schools and high school, the training programs for pupils of special and general comments, the compulsory two-year pre-school education, where there are two-year-olds...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u145	Complete, please. Very.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, give me two minutes and I'll be right over. ...can actually be applied to the part of early intervention and not to nurseries. So things have happened. A great deal more needs to be done. The reality is, however, different. Unfortunately, New Democracy ignores the needs of special schools. It has not even moved on to the vaccination of pupils and teachers, although the special schools are the only ones that are still working at the moment. They have not been prioritised according to their vulnerability. The Ministry refuses to see parents and teachers. Unfortunately, on this point, the achievements of the State of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis are being exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u147	Finish it, Mrs. Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm closing up with my last conversation. We believe that we will come back. We have already tabled the special action plan presented by Alexis Tsipras and there is an alternative policy for equal access to people, who have a great need, particularly, of the new generation and of the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u149	Mr Jason Fotillas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us concerns issues that are high on the agenda, in particular, in recent days. Numerous public complaints about punctuality and cruelty of human rights. We have been particularly concerned with the issue of the immunisation of fundamental rights, both of women and of children, the weaker and more generally the need for greater protection. At the same time, the health crisis and the temporary reduction of our freedoms raise a variety of concerns about the conflict of certain rights and their weighting. Therefore, in response to the jewels of the time and the universal need for the maximum protection of human rights, this draft law by the Ministry of State focuses on three important institutional interventions concerning human rights. First of all, we recommend this for the first time - I stress this - National Accessibility Authority for the Assurance of Persons with Disabilities. But what is the role of this principle? The National Accessibility Authority will recommend the State’s Adviser for all issues relating to the access of SMEs to the entire range of human activities. To what is the existence of the Accessibility Authority? It serves and contributes decisively to the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In particular, the Committee will coordinate, monitor and monitor the wider policy on equal treatment and equal opportunities for disabled people. In other words, this committee is not without the national plan and the development of a structured public policy at the level of the protection of people with disabilities. Made up by scientists of unknown prestige will assist the work of the state, providing and ensuring at the same time the necessary know-how for specialized and complex issues regarding the treatment of disabled people. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis empowers the rule of law and the welfare state, whose purpose is to ensure a decent living for the protected persons in order to become part of the country's economic and social life. Positive measures by the Government of the New Republic for the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises are clear and dispersed. These measures relate to both benefits and services. For example, I will refer to our flagship initiatives, such as the 'Personal Assistant' and the 'Duration Card'. They also concern institutional interventions, such as those we are introducing today. Increased protection for SMEs is a basic prerequisite for the smooth functioning of democratic institutions and for the effective realisation of the principle of equality. And, as I have said many times, we in practice prove that we are the rule of law and the welfare state. And I now come to Mrs Fotio and her proposal to create a corresponding State Secretary for Accessibility issues. Ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers, you seem to overlook the fact that by the draft law we introduce consultative institutions into the state. Can you not understand that there is not a single ministry that is not involved in this process? The accessibility of SMEs extends to the areas of health care, education, work, transport and a load of others. Honestly, tell me what this Ministry will be like to gather the number of individual and special responsibilities related to multi-purpose accessibility? So let go of the micropolitical and miserable concerns at last and focus on a productive and fruitful dialogue. Have you tabled a proposal relating to the bill? No, of course not. I answer for myself because the question was rhetorical. The second substantial intervention by the bill concerns the National Commission for Human Rights, which now acquires organisational, operational and financial autonomy. We are reforming the institutional framework of this committee, making it fully self-sufficient for the first time. We are thus strengthening its independence and autonomy. In this regard, I find no room for any counter-project from the Anti-Population Party, when it is the committee itself that recommends it. We therefore welcome the demand of civil society, the demand for full independence of the committee through its administrative and financial self-sufficiency. But, here too, you accused us of setting up a party and pre-central system and I wonder where this is going to be? He has no basis at all. The National Commission for Human Rights was, moreover, subject to the Prime Minister from the outset. This was already foreseen by the founder of the law, and, even beforehand, there were seven representatives of ministries and two individuals appointed by the Prime Minister himself. In this draft law, there will be no single member, which will come from the executive. In contrast to the existing legislative regime, the Prime Minister will no longer have any participation in the National Commission for Human Rights. We are completely disconnecting the committee from any party's dependence, making it not on purpose, but essentially independent. And I continue with the third and equally important intervention we are trying to do and it is no more than the development of the National Bioethics Commission to the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology. At this point you will allow me to borrow a phrase from the specific Greek professor of MIT Mr. Daskalakis: "The emphasis on man is the contribution for which the Greeks must be proud." And I don't randomly use it, as many dilemmas of moral nature emerge, which have to be resolved through a code of moral values that guide and center always man. The National Committee for Bioethics and Technology will therefore be the State's main advisor to defend human rights that may be threatened by the rapid development of technology. I still cannot believe that there is even one of the opposition parties, which disagrees with the undeniable need to strengthen this committee. I believe that it is common to see the need to upgrade it so that it can go hand in hand with the rapid pace of technological development. We must modernise our legal view of new technologies. Before I finish, I would like to congratulate, as a legal person, the laudable attempt to codify the scattered legislation for disabled people, which the Minister of State also mentioned. I conclude by saying that despite any disagreements and our different views, the defence and safeguarding of individual rights must be a common component and the convergence point in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u151	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u152	Greece puts forward and finally implements essential objectives of improvement on the issue of the immunisation of individual, social and human rights as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u153	The reason is now Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement. Immediately after the speech I will give the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kostas Scandalidis. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are discussing an important bill brought by your government to plenary and creating new political levels of action, for which PASOK and the Change Movement have already opened a path in the past, and which you are following is true. They are major reforms of the great democratic party, which are milestones and compass together for continuity and future governments. Before I refer to today's subject, however, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, let me just be allowed to share with Parliament's colleagues, but also with the citizens who are following us, some of the thoughts that arise from the current situation and have created a massive wave of revelations with political implications for governmental manipulations, particularly in the field of culture, but also elsewhere. Through the eyes of a citizen, you wondered, Minister, what exactly do we see? What does he see? What does a citizen see today with his eyes in pandemic, in anguish, in isolation, in economic suffocation? A citizen heard the National Meteorological Service a few days ago predicting that we will have extreme weather conditions. This same citizen, who, despite predicted, had to stay a week with the Resurrection wax and wrapped with a campaign blanket in the dawn of 2021. A citizen, then, saw a terrible fight between government and municipalities shortly after the TEDEN at the centre of the tree branches. Who did not climb up eventually, and who did not cut off these infamous branches, but by pulling his hair every average wise man, because his intelligence was severely underestimated. Students on the streets saw the citizen, Mr. Minister, saying: "Down with our lives and under our schools", as if we have two speed lives and schools respectively, universities of their own and yours, their lives, ours and theirs. And one wonders, like the historian of the future, will surely record this: To what, really, so hatred and strife in the heart of our nipples? A citizen, Minister, has seen in the last few days an avalanche not white snow but black bearers of materials in a stream that finally became a strong revelation river for sexual crimes and unprecedented methods of committing them by persons selected by your Government to perform the role of head of institution, such as that of the National Theatre. A citizen sees today in the clan of political chivalry to exalt each side its own pattern and to make its own plan. White one? Black one. Who was lignade embraced today, as I was reading a moment ago. Hug with the current Minister of Culture, however, the other responds with the previous Minister of Culture. A pedophile for the first, theatrical man for the other, before justice talks about all of this! On the one hand, Mr Mitsotakis' chosen ambassador, on the other hand, to the Venezuelan ambassador, with incredible political connections to purely sexual crimes. The citizen, ladies and gentlemen, is confused by the deafening sound of a loaf that nothing beautiful will create for the country. In the mad dance of a criminal prisoner, referring to justice, with victims still licking their wounds, wounds that will probably never be closed, the Government, Minister, must assume political responsibility. Straight and shine to stop anthropophagia at every level! Greece, the country of democracy and culture cannot be identified under any circumstances with this landscape. It's morbid, it's cannibal, it's detestable. It's even attracted to every handwriting guy - think! - who likes noisy light, lives in polluting light, as long as it's light, so that he can sketch on the pile of even the souls that were raped, for a few moments, just to come to the surface of news. No, he can't allow that our political system. The Government must assume the objective political responsibility for overcoming social peace and restoring the feeling of public law. So that justice takes on its institutional role in this matter and that our society, which is currently a revolution. I shall now refer to what we are discussing today, the bill of State Minister for the National Accessibility Authority, the National Commission for Human Rights, the important one in my understanding and the Committee on Bioethics and Technology, as it is now well added. I now think that we are on a road that we can only recognise that it is necessary, that it is modern and that it is a one-way road, because we need a new conception of politics to have in it what you cannot give to people who are deprived of it because they are faced with unfavourable conditions in their lives. We could not in any case have a opposition to everything - unfortunately I saw this today, and I was very sorry - when issues arise which are commonly accepted for everyone that we have to deal with in a modern framework of rights, individual and collective. We must not forget that for the last two committees PASOK had passed the oldest law, Law 2667/98. We have been proud of that, ladies and gentlemen. Then we had the innovative concept and concept of making a law that today only needs a simple face lift, from what I saw, a simple update. Human rights are at the centre again, the human rights of people with disabilities, which are often hampered by the uncertainities of the state and the institutional manifestations, but also the human rights of all of us in general, within the framework of constitutional safeguarding, but also an uncontrolled situation in the pandemic, and where the dialogue again needs to be updated again to discuss how we can actually have a minimum of protection for human rights, since we all feel that the collective and the individual sphere is affected, especially in the health crisis that we are experiencing. In this context, when our rights are curtailed and redefined, a minimum as an obligation also has the state to define and protect the rights of the disabled, and that is why we welcome the initiative for the National Accessibility Authority. It is a positive fact promoted by the government, a National Action Plan which, of course, we always say must have an improved direction and always use, use - of course - all the motives, criteria and political spaces with great pioneer rights, so long, so many years in this direction. Everything should be taken into account. The mirror of a democratically organized state is the way in which people with disabilities are treated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I conclude with two words. Therefore, in this direction, we are proud that we have first worked out these plans and you are coming to fill them out. I conclude by mentioning, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that, unfortunately, while all of this could have the consent of all of us, you have again raised issues which cannot resist the temptation to point out. All three committees provide for the possibility of some of the scientific staff serving with renewable four-year fixed-term contracts and these are renewed by the decision of a committee, as you have once again chosen. "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks." It's a hooey that once again you don't think you're gonna cut it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u155	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u156	In any case - and I conclude, Mr President - we think that all this should be done with the absolute consent of the political group, because we believe that they are national cases in which we should be extremely careful and extremely open to the present and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u157	Mr Scandalidis has the floor. Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am much more concerned with the image of the national Parliament in the day after. The Prime Minister took an initiative, I would say, communal defensive in the face of day-to-day developments, to have a debate on this important issue that we are experiencing at this time, but I am particularly concerned with the image, style, morality and reason to be heard in this Chamber tomorrow, which can still be a blow, if you want, to the functioning of parliamentary institutions and to the credibility of political and political leadership. I say that and I repeat it. I said it in the morning. We're going to a very slippery ground. The precursor today was such that, in fact, it puts the problem into a controversy, I fear, that it does not listen to each other. And if this develops at the level of the Heads, you understand that for the National Representation it will be a very powerful blow, but also in general, to the political life of the country. I must also say that your positions and suggestions have a sense of logic, an effort and a good will to change things from what concerns our democratic city, the functioning of institutions and democracy. Of course you are part of a system of power that I will talk about shortly after, since everyone likes to talk about the Final State and the rest, that is, the type of governance. The subject of the bill is essentially one with two subsets. It is the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Accessibility Authority and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology are subsets, because they want to defend human rights, fundamental rights which are currently being challenged. And that is why you will allow me two very brief comments on the two sub-totals, so that I can then go to the issue of the governance model of the National Committee on Rights. As far as the National Accessibility Authority is concerned, all our rapporteurs, firstly Mr Kamine, have characterised it as a positive development. You have exploited the proposals of the National Confederacy. In practice we can see very much better what gaps still exist and we can improve them. But it is in the right direction and certainly no one could ignore it or say that it is something negative in dealing with this particular problem. As far as the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology is concerned, Mr Kamine this morning tabled a truly important and comprehensive view of the new times we live, the dangers that arise from them, about individual rights and personal data, not only at national but at global level. The forced development and strengthening of rights relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of safety and protection, in terms of authoritarian, inhuman and dark practices that are lagging behind the possibility of exploiting the technological revolution and its products and, in particular, the use by the States themselves, make the new confrontation between authoritarian regimes and parliamentarians between totalitarian and liberal regimes. They do not make the vindication of one another against another, but they pose a global problem of protection from the results of the technological revolution, the protection of democracy and the Parliamentary Republic. This is a crucial issue for which the same Parliamentary Republic should consider this as a major issue and discuss it in particular within the framework of the Greek delegation. You are actually institutionalising a committee which follows on from the first committee the PASOK government has then, to adapt and extend its competence and content with regard to developments. That is a step, I would say, positive but small. Here it is necessary for the national Parliament and the whole political world to deal very seriously with new data, especially after the pandemic and give a much more radical solution, in this respect, and an institutional framework that is consistent with all the developments that are currently happening throughout the world, when it comes to dealing with this particular problem. The development of this committee was therefore necessary and we consider it to be positive. But you chose an easy way. You could open up the debate on the substance and come up with what this committee will be like and what content it will have. It would, I think, be more substantial, more radical, deeper and more modern when it comes to dealing with the current problem. I now come to the Committee on Human Rights. And this is an institutional conquest of the PASOK government in implementation of the resolution of the UN General Assembly in 1998. It is good that your law acquires legal personality, as well as economic and administrative autonomy. Here there was a controversy in the morning as to whether it applies to secondments, transfers and allowances if they are made outside the existing provisions. I saw now in your corrections that you made a half move and I'll say why it's half. It is only about this committee. It's not about the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u159	All of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u160	And if it's all about, you're setting a transitional stage. I don't know what's happened to you in the government with the transition stages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u161	It cannot be done otherwise, Mr Scandalides, because there are no agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u162	You'll hear me. And if it can't be done otherwise, we can talk about it. This is not the time to eat me the time to discuss this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u163	You put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u164	So I want to tell you that I do not understand this transition. On the other hand, I see a sense of 'no more permanent than temporary'. And I could say that you've been in a perfectly good mood for this, but there's been fleas in my ears from a series of developments in the last few days. Mr Vorides comes in and says about the administrations of the EPC that were obliged under the law, whether there is a resignation or a change of command, within three months, to decide specifically in accordance with the procedures provided for by AEPC, etc. and complete the process. Mr Vorides is coming and suggests abolishing any deadline. It says that in twenty days' time the process will begin, but it can last for two years, three years, four years. So the government has the possibility of putting an administration in place that is for the next three to four years. The same comes after a while from the committee in the previous law that we discussed and talked about the independent authorities. And they also say that the six months that were the deadline to complete the replacement process were abolished. A transitional situation for the future is therefore referred to. And here comes the Independent Public Income Authority and says the Commander will decide for everything, for wage bills, for everything, for everything, for anything else. So I ask: is this co-ordination of transitional provisions accidental? Does the transitional party state today make it easier for the government to exercise power and brings us all these provisions to vote suddenly by abolishing all deadlines that it ensured that we would quickly decide the procedures and the selection of the new administrations? So when you come to us today and say, even in transitional terms, that these provisions will not apply, it is clear what happens on the basis of and the pace of the Greek public administration, but above all, if you like, the government's intention and the government's decision. That's why deadlines have come, because a government has the right to take it as much as it wants and as much as it can. So I ask this is a crucial issue, Minister, in which I believe that the government does not really exercise the policy of merit, of assessment, of the correct procedure for filling positions in public administration, and in particular, in such critical principles, particularly sensitive, but simply form a transitional party state. And since there is a lot of talk about the Final State, whether it is the good journalists who are doing right-wing, left-wing, progressive, conservative, etc., that controversy has been dissolved and all this, there are very specific things here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, shortly. Progressive and conservative practice in the type of governance answers questions in particular. Does it concentrate or decentralise powers? For example, does self-government gather or decentralise powers? Does it enable the institutions below to have their own role, their own decision, their own decisive involvement in the exercise of power in a democratic regime, or does the executive concentrate in a powerful, supposedly so-called office all the decisions relating to the governance process? Does it strengthen or weaken the institutional formation of democracy? The most characteristic example is the selfishness of the university. I'm not saying that the police won't come in when there's an act of violation, but you're here and you've actually brought the Minister of Public Order to decide if he wants, and if he decides, why the dean authorities are not capable. Get them their respective criminal and civil responsibility to assume their responsibilities and build the security service and build both the entrance-out and the card and everything. But not transfer the executive power's decisions to the university! You're abolishing the institution. In development policy, who will decide where the resources of the Recovery Fund will go? A powerful office downtown. How does democratic planning, the pyramid of democratic planning with developmental institutions, decentralised, who give vitals to regions and make decisions on their progress, their development and their progress? There's nowhere to be found. Everything's getting central. And the last thing that is the most critical and related to the bill today, in the name of misguided coercion, the indiscriminate claim of the coalition, you are abolishing the first and decisive right, the right to dignity. The individual's right to dignity is now being imposed. The right to dignity is brought through the appalling acts that see the light of publicity. And the right to dignity is not protected, unless there is a real, substantial safeguard of these rights, without windows, without various holes where anyone can enter and overthrow it. This is the first and main issue that should deal with the principle, the National Committee on Human Rights. I, too, would be very pleased if you would bring in a new, radical, powerful law that protects the constitutional rights of the "cooperative", of the "cooperative", of mobilising and proposing, claiming, but at the same time, the protection of individuality, freedom and the security of citizens. I would be very happy for a progressive government to do so. You will not do so because you personally do not have the intention, but why the structure of your Government and the way you exercise authority does not allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. I will now give Mr Georgios Kotonia the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Spyridon Lappa from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kotraya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a rule of law, a civilised society gives equal rights and equal opportunities to all its citizens. Equal opportunities in education, work, culture and all the manifestations of his social and personal life. This bill makes a substantial step forward in order to make it possible for all our fellow citizens to participate equally in social affairs, while at the same time creating the framework for defending and promoting their rights. The establishment of the National Accessibility Authority, which is a key role in ensuring the rights of people with disabilities, is an institutional arrangement that takes into account the difficulties faced by people with disabilities and their environment in their daily lives, difficulties that have emerged even further in the critical period of our pandemic. Because I have served local government for many years, I feel that despite the fact that self-government over the years has taken steps to improve access to the media, we are still back. As long as I can tell you that I recently asked the Minister for Justice, I am referring to the lack of safe access for disabled people to the Lamia courts. I stop here and come to Article 2 of the bill, which sets out the responsibilities of the National Accessibility Authority, which covers a wide range, such as monitoring the application of the international and the national accessibility framework, making proposals on the implementation of the national action plan on the rights of persons with disabilities, updating by each of the accessibility committees set up in the public and in the wider public sector and local government organisations on the issues of accessibility, representation of the country in international organisations on matters of its competence, public awareness of the importance for me for the uninterrupted access of disabled people to the structures of the state, as well as the structures of each city. The results and course of action of this institution will be reflected in a report which it itself will make public every year and, in fact, on the basis of specific indicators. The National Accessibility Authority is directly subject to the Prime Minister, which gives her the greatest authority and thus embraces all the relevant ministries dealing with the issues of the accessibility of the disabled. It supports its staffing and infrastructure by the Presidency of the Government and forms part of its budget as a distinct special line. Cooperation with higher education institutions and research bodies is also provided for in order to carry out projects and prepare studies, and the opportunity to invite students or students with disabilities to its regular meetings. The National Accessibility Authority shall be managed by an 11-member management board with a four-year term of office and shall be set up with five organisational positions of scientific and administrative staff that may be covered by secondments or transfers of permanent staff of the public. Part II of the bill concerns the National Commission for Human Rights, which, by this bill, now acquires administrative and financial autonomy as the State's independent advisory body for the protection of human rights. Its responsibilities are broadened and summarised in the following: to consider issues relating to the protection of human rights raised by either the Government or the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament or by the Civil Society itself, to submit proposals to improve the protection of human rights, to examine compliance with international law on the protection of rights, to record the phenomenon of racist behaviour and violation of rights, to cultivate respect for human rights in the context of our educational system and to raise public awareness. The National Committee for Human Rights is now gaining financial self-sufficiency with the grant from the State budget and other sources and is preparing its own budget under the responsibility of its chairman. Finally, in Part III and following the requirements of the new technological age, the mission of the National Bioethics Commission, which is moving into a National Bioethics and Technical Committee with clearly expanded responsibilities is strengthened. These are summarised in the following: the tabling of proposals for a comprehensive policy, but also specific actions, or in the opinion on issues relating to its mission, participation in legislative committees on issues relating to its anthropocentric mission, examination of compliance with international law, representation of our country in organisations on matters relating to its mission and public awareness, to which, as I have said, I attach great importance. The new National Committee for Bioethics and Technology is subject to the Prime Minister, composed of eleven members with a four-year term of office and can work with scientists of recognised prestige, universities and research institutes. The Committee should draw up an annual report on its activities, which will be discussed at a joint meeting of the Special Standing Committee on Research and Technology and of the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights of the Parliament. The draft law, ladies and gentlemen, contains three major social interventions with concrete planning, measurable results and a clear objective for the welfare of its society and its citizens and especially the weakest ones. I think it should be supported by all the wings of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr Cotia, and respect for the time. Now Mr Spyridonas Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Theme Himaras from New Democracy is prepared. Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I only intended to talk to you about the first chapter of the three committees on disabled people. I was shocked, however, by the speech of the Parliamentary representative and colleague, Mr Ploiris, who, by smuggling the Criminal Code, said that the Left and Central Left collision with the Central Right would take place on the basis of this code. Alas, really alas, I think as a lawman about the great clash between Schmidt and Hans Kelsen. Hans Kelsen was the man who believed in Liberal Criminal Law and Schmitt in authoritarian with very great penalties and was generally a man of extreme positions. I would like to say to my colleague Mr Plory, in particular as a lawyer, that Schmitt's ideas were the ground, the temperate and healthy ground on which the Nazi ideology was based. Mr. Colleague, Thanos Plyris, in any case, we raise the glove. If you think the conflict of the Left and the Central Left together, because in the legal community in many, our ideas are identical, on the right or on the centre right, on the basis of the provisions of the Criminal Code, we raise the glove and take the initiative to organize a conference or a two-day, either on the initiative of the Bar Association, on the initiative of the national Parliament or on the initiative of the judges and prosecutors, with the sole debate on the history of the criminal codes in our country and in Europe and throughout the world. I must tell you, Mr Plouri, that you must read again, it seems, that fire, the amazing one - a deposition in the democratic and liberal spirit of the penal codes - a speech by Nikolaos Horafas in 1950 when our country came out of the slaughterhouse of the great Second World War. You will understand, then, that a Criminal Code is based on three things: firstly, the judiciary and its liberal spirit, secondly, the principle of tolerance - developed by Hans Kelsen, who I told you a hundred years ago - and, thirdly, the penal code that will be rationalized and humanized. So if criminal law is not a humanitarian code and humanitarian law, it will never be effective and acceptable to Greek society. In any case, what Mr Ploris has said about rape is exactly the opposite of the provisions of the old code, namely the one that was voted on in SYRIZA on the subject of rape. I heard from a journalist yesterday saying that SYRIZA made the rape a crime and shortened the limitation. The limitation was and remains for 15 years for the felonies and five for the defects. In fact, rape since 1950 has been and remains a felony. I have no more time to develop this, but I have the challenge, Mr President, for a really great debate on the Criminal Code between the Left and the Right which Mr Ploris wants. I will only tell him that we lawyers - and you are legal, Mr President, and you understand it - are looking for heaven as a diagnosis of legal science, we say that his path characterizes it as an uncertainty for the ocean in which we are all sailing. And as the Browning Paracelsus poem says, "The travelers, if they waited and were looking to reach the paradise that was always going away..." that was exactly the point. He has the charm of this long journey that you may never reach your destination definitively. It is the poem "The Paracelsus" of Browning used by Vassilis Marquezin in his book "The good and evil in art and law", Mr President. Secondly, I think it is really politically ridiculous to insist today and to discuss the issue of Ms. Mendoni in the sense of how this woman can stand today and remain in her position! I think that Christopher Vernardakis said the best, namely that the government today is giving a great gift to society, to movements and to opposition as a whole. Keep it in place and so you help the movement in the level of culture and art, as well as in society to rediscover the edge for its racing mobilisations and claims of its rights. Let's go to the bill now, Mr. President. I am addressing Mr Gerapetritis as a man who also ministers to legal science. I would like to tell him that I would really be very awkward in his place, listening to Mr. Plearis speaking as he was about criminal science. I believe that the Minister was awkward and I fully justify him! Absolutely! But, Minister, I want to tell you something. You don't say it, you're more polite. However, many people sometimes say about the state of the government, about the opposition ostrich and the speech of SYRIZA and all parties. You never answer to all parties. You only respond to SYRIZA's oyster. We would tell you that our opposition speech has something to do with the abundance of your "yellow" nerve! If you do not limit that, then we will not improve the opposition speech, as you at least believe it will. And not to forget, Minister - and I am addressing a university teacher - by seeing these images from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, this barbarism, this extreme violence against the children who study, who are ministering to knowledge, which will be the reeds of tomorrow at all levels - the religious, politicians, parliamentarians, the economics of the country - from where it is forsaken? Those kids that beat, they beat up ungrateful, who practice violence, what are they taught in schools anyway? The words 'Constitution', 'democracy', 'rights' never listen to them in their schools? Of course, what kind of schools, you'll tell me! After they take them out of school! In any case, I would like to tell you. A mother of one of the children who was arrested by the police and who was detained told me to tell you, Mr Minister, that: Three things, he says, we women are never forgetting - and it is addressed to Mr Chrysochide and all the ministers, I would say - your cologne, your words and your actions. Remember that. She says it is a woman, a mother of a child who saw a police officer hit with a lot of violence and extremistly the child who sent it to one of the world's best universities. We shall now go to the bill, which has been discussed in committee. Minister, I have to tell you that I have a very negative attitude in general as regards the creation of national independent or other authorities. I exclude the constitutional requirements. I believe that every time a choice is made to set up an authority or a committee that specialises, it is similar to the independent authority, this actually proves a deficit at the level of the reformist spirit in the administrative machinery, because the whole of the administrative machine is being placed in a national committee or a large stock of the administrative labour force, the administrative footprint, we are going to say, so the entire administrative machine is being dismantled. And it must not be depopulation, because politicisation also exists in the field of initiative and decision, but there is control and responsibility. I think that this vigilant obsession to create independent authorities does not do well either in public administration or in the rule of law. But that is a legal point of view. If you want, evaluate it, but if you want, you reject it. Let us now refer to the disabled. The rapporteur and Mr Vernardakis also told you what a movement would need today. Mr President, I would like to tell you that in this bill, the first concerning the disabled, seems to maintain a general perception of disability, that is, what we call the 'personalised health damage'. I think this is an obsolete model of perception and I think that what is constantly gaining ground - after all, in fact, the Convention on the Rights of the Disabled in 2006, which was passed and adopted in 2008 as the first binding human rights text in the 21st century by the UN - is the social model now. It is what we need to rely on, and this is what we need to talk about, and that is what we need to use and prove it by our political actions at any time. Therefore, support is needed today for the rights of disabled people who are undoubtedly in need - everyone, all the analysts of political science, philosophers and intellectuals - and racism and restrictions on their rights and socialisation and extremism. Proof that even literature and media against disability have a perception of...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u169	Finish, Mr. Lappa, please. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u170	Yes, Mr. President. So what we are saying is that we need a Ministry for the Disabled I think it is what is justified and the first International Settlement Convention on the Personal Rights of the Disabled. That's the one. Secondly, with regard to the National Committee on Human Rights, Mr President, I do not think there is any need for intervention either in this committee or in the Committee on Bioethics and Technology, because they are two committees with very valuable work and all that is being done is the replacement of people and scientists. This is not good, and it proves that it is done by purpose and by utility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much. Mr.Himaras Themistoklis from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Dimitris Kouvelas from New Democracy will then be prepared. Here, Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering today has a strong social dimension. It is structured into three main pillars of institutional intervention. Firstly, we are upgrading and strengthening the National Commission for Human Rights, which now acquires administrative and financial autonomy. We establish balanced participation in it by each social group, every piece of puzzle that composes the Greek society of the 21st century. We thus build the necessary strong links between them. They are links that will prevent any form of violence, discrimination, exploitation and burglary of the social fabric. Secondly, we are reproducing the National Bioethics Commission to the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology. In this way, we go hand in hand with the data of modern times and face the new needs and challenges, in particular of a moral nature, created by the rapid progress of technology. Artificial intelligence, robotics, intelligent slogans, social media, the application of innovative technologies and scientific methods in every aspect of social life must be compatible with human and individual rights, to preserve them, not to trample them in. That is exactly what the National Commission is called upon to ensure. Thirdly, we are creating for the first time the National Accessibility Authority, a universal coordination and guidance body for managing all issues relating to accessibility, social inclusion and ensuring the rights of people with disabilities. As our rapporteur, Mr Consolas, pointed out in the committee, the fact that these three new National Committees are subject to the Prime Minister's attention but also our high expectations of this legislative initiative. But let me focus, ladies and gentlemen, on the National Accessibility Commission, because I sincerely believe and speak to you through my heart that as a country and as a society we owe a lot to our fellow citizens with disabilities. We owe them opportunities and ways to live as they wish, not just to survive. We owe them an integrated and, above all, effective response to their particular needs. Why can't we talk about growth and glorious investment when a child with mobility problems cannot come out in a square with his car, when this child can't enjoy the sea, when a woman with visual problems can't find suitable spaces to be played, when a teenager with Down's syndrome is unable to further develop its capabilities after graduation from the special high school due to a lack of similar structures. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time there is a comprehensive plan for national action that sets specific and measurable objectives, structured in six pillars and thirty actions, a five-year plan, so that we can tackle this multi-dimensional issue. Today we are establishing the first action that this national authority is. The ten-year period of the memorials and the health crisis was a great opportunity to think about, to make our self-criticism. However, it is time to pass through the words of sympathy and the theoretical discussions in practice. Allow me to make a special reference to a large gap here. I refer to the gap that exists in our educational system for people with serious disabilities from OSCEs, specialist vocational education and training laboratories. Then these people with serious disabilities to the majority of them are forced to return to the family environment because there is no mathematical structure through lifelong education. The effects on both the family and the disabled themselves are many times unbearable. Their parents or guardians are burdened with all the weight of their care, in which they most often fail to cope physically, economically, but of course also psychologically. These children are isolated and stop cultivating their skills by gradually losing everything they have gained through their schooling in special schools from previous years. In other words, a dead end is created in which the whole family is finally caught. This, Minister, is an extremely serious issue for which, together with twelve colleagues, we had asked the Ministers responsible for this. I believe that, with the establishment of the National Authority, this serious issue must be re-examined, always in collaboration with the collective bodies of the AIFM, in order to find the best solution and of course to implement it. I firmly believe that local government can make a decisive contribution to the implementation of this project. I have very important examples to mention from my term of office in the Region of Central Greece in the previous years. It was there that we succeeded with fewer resources but also many institutional obstacles to implementing actions such as the free supply of electric motors to our insecure and insecure fellow citizens with mobility problems. Why did we do it? Because we found that at the same time our insured fellow citizen with mobility problems could cover through his fund the supply of electric car, there were insurers who could not. What did we do? We have prepared an action called 'access to everyone' through which we sought our compatriots who had these characteristics, i.e. uninsured and entitled to cars. We sought donors, found them, and the action was implemented successfully. I put this as an example to highlight the importance of the parallel moment. A normal day like today at the same time at another point there were clear issues of social exclusion. There were our compatriots who had never been in their village square. There were homes unable to react, they remained in the dark. There was secret, bruising pain and misery. This deep cry of pain then we managed to hear as a self-government authority. That is why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the role of self-government must be sovereign. It is imperative that we take quickly, properly studied and efficient steps towards social cohesion and improve access for disabled people to every aspect of social life is a necessary and capable treaty to remove all social inequality. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of today's bill, far from political purposes. Let us be united in spite of our disagreements, since I am sure we agree with the final aim: nobody and nobody stay behind. All and all have equal opportunities and equal access to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr Heimara, especially for keeping time. Mr Dimitris Kouvelas has the floor from New Democracy. And then Mr. Marios Katsis will be prepared by SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my speech by posting a good friend on social media about a year ago, which has said, "I had the obvious idea because of the good time to take a walk in the center of Athens after a long time. By the time I write these lines, I'm angry. I take the bus, the ramp sticks, and it doesn't get together to start. The driver is manually picking it up with manveles and passengers are indignant due to delay. I feel really bad about being stalled by other people. I've arrived in Omonia where the metro elevator has been out of operation for months. I had to wait for a route to get through his car in the opposite current to use an elevator that worked. I wonder what a disabilities tourist would think if he did my own route today. During my other walk there was a need for me to use a toilet and address myself to a public service building. There was another surprise waiting for me, as the wheelchair had been renovated, but the architect and engineer had not bothered to know the dimensions of a wheelchair, so that the door would not be closed." Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that this experience gives all of us grief, indignation and anger. I hope very soon in Greece in particular with actions and not with words to respond to the needs of our fellow people who face such difficulties in their daily lives as the girl in the above history and to confirm that respect for the rights of the other is culture. We all agree that a mirror of a favoured but also a sensitive state is the way in which people with disabilities are treated. If anyone asks these people for their basic desire, the majority will say that their main need is not to provide disability benefits and pensions but a state that respects their dignity and seeks their fullest integration into society. Minister, I know how much the issues relating to sensitive social rights are touching you, but also how zealous you have drawn up the National Action Plan on the Rights of SMUs and other social groups. You are also worthy of much good that after a genuine dialogue in the consultation you have accepted many of the comments made by operators. Unfortunately, even today only 1% of pedestrians have access infrastructures for people with disabilities and disabilities. At the most central junction in Thessaloniki, on the sidewalk of Tsimisiki street with Aristotle there is a stepping stone that makes life difficult for wheelchairs and children's wheelchairs, in the elderly and people with motor problems. Also, almost 80% of schools have no special ramps or infrastructure for children with disabilities. Regarding issues of accessibility to public services there, as you know, the problem is becoming even more pronounced. With the draft legislation under discussion, we are drawing up a holistic plan that will improve the access index for disabled people in each activity area, in the public indoor and outdoor areas, in schools, in universities, in the means of transport, and even in the field. The National Accessibility Authority is founded to ensure people with disabilities, who will be subject directly to the Prime Minister, which alone shows the special importance that our Government attaches to it. It will, in essence, be the Special Adviser of the State on all issues relating to the accessibility of disabled people. In essence, therefore, a single national coordination centre is being set up to develop a strategy, monitor, propose improvements, update, provide technical assistance, monitor compliance and harmonise Community legislation on all issues relating to accessibility and, in particular, safeguarding the rights of people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that no reform will prove effective unless we have previously changed our thinking. In particular, it is a cultural issue that we are discussing. It is not understood in public service that the elevator does not work for people with kinetic problems. It is unacceptable to park any car in a disabled position or in a ramp in the readings. This must be changed and we will succeed. The second substantial intervention is the change in the institutional framework governing the National Commission on Human Rights. It also falls directly under the Prime Minister, forms and table proposals that improve the legal institutional framework for the protection of human rights. Especially at a time when in Greece we are all witnessing very serious harassment and abuse in various areas of the public sphere, from the artistic world to sport and education, we can easily see how important the role of this committee is now. The committee will also examine complaints of racism and discrimination. Only when we see the problem in the face, when we record the causes, we update the data and see the sources from which it comes, will we be able to deal with it even more effectively. The third important intervention under this draft law concerns the development of the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology. This, obviously, is imposed by the rapid technological development by which new, moral challenges and needs emerge. It will control and, where necessary, intervene when science goes beyond moral, social and legal limits to the detriment of human rights. We are already in the fifth industrial revolution and following huge progress in medical, genetic, biotechnology, but also in new technologies, such as robotic, artificial intelligence, digital data recording, it is understood how much control and intervention are needed when limits are exceeded, causing risks to citizens' rights and everyday life. In conclusion, I shall briefly mention a number of issues, but it is worth looking at them immediately, such as the additional staffing and evaluation of the work of the disability certification centres. They still have complaints. It is therefore necessary to speed up the process - with good decisions, of course - to examine, too, with respect for the personality of every person, especially when it comes to clear cases of invalidity without a return. It is also necessary to codify the legislation for disabled persons, which is one of the most dautic in the Greek legal system, as well as to cooperate with municipalities and regions to improve accessibility to buildings, as well as sustainable mobility in the public area of persons with motor difficulties. I propose that the change of culture and culture start from primary school, with a special course referring to basic principles of respect for our fellow people with specific and mobilityal difficulties. This programme will have theory and action and may be called "I learn to respect each other's rights". The major changes in our society will begin by changing thought and behaviour. The sooner we understand that, the sooner we'll find the solutions we want. This is where the draft law we are discussing comes in, and I call on everyone to vote for it, leaving other differences aside. These are our people with special needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Couvela. Mr. Marios Katsis is next from SYRIZA and then Mr. Konstantinos Boubas will be prepared from the Greek Solution. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. The big issue that concerns the Greek society is, on the one hand, the revelations concerning rape of minors and, on the other, the possibility of a trafficking and paedophilia and, on the other, a political attempt to cover up these atrocious acts. There are unanswered unreasonable questions. There is no doubt political responsibility. Questions are as follows and seek answers: Who insisted on the appointment of Mr Lignade, canceling a whole public tender for his sake? Secondly, why did Mrs Mendoni not address justice when the public complaint of rape on 6 February became known three weeks ago? Thirdly, finally, did Mr Lignade give up on his own initiative or, as Mr Scortsos said yesterday, today, did Mr Gerapitris give up on him? What Minister, after all, is telling the truth and who's lying? So what's the matter? Mrs. Mendoni was deceived by a dangerous man or, according to the Government Delegate, Mr. Tarantilis, is Lignade the best director ever passed by the National Theatre and resigned for personal reasons? The frustration of nearly three weeks of the government to ask for legal assistance, because on Monday he did not listen, on Wednesday he was being prosecuted and on Thursday he condemned, or did he or she not lead to critical delays in the collection of important material for the case by the prosecutors and police? The quality, ladies and gentlemen, of the public dialogue will be seen by whether or not in the next few days there are answers to these fundamental questions. Quality is seen by the degree of empathy of political responsibility. We cannot understand the fact at all why you insist on lying and one minister rescinding the other. Why is this ultimate mess? I now come to the bill under discussion, which introduces a new authority, the National Accessibility Authority, an authority that, according to the Government, will be an advisory body of the state with a view to accessing disabled people in all areas of human activity. That sounds nice as a title, but what is this principle, and what exactly will it do? First of all, I say that we are talking about a completely controlled institution, as it will consist of eleven members, six of which will be chosen by the Prime Minister and any action by that institution will be launched and brought to the Prime Minister's office. So it is also obvious in the answer which is made publicly to the questions 'Who has appointed Mr Lignade?' In the Final State of Mr.Mitsotakis and Mr.Gerapitris everything is defined by the Prime Minister, by the Chief of Staff. So with today's beginning. This is how Mr Lignade was appointed, Mr Mitsotakis' personal choice. Nothing must be left unarmed and everything must be directed directly from Maximos, no one enters without the relevant ok. Of course, when the bam is done, as we have seen in the case of Lignade, Maximo is whistling indifferently both the Final State and the criminal fiasco are revealed. So the Accessibility Authority, to be appointed by the Prime Minister, to what exactly will advise him on the accessibility of disabled people? Is there a concrete action plan by the government, with clear objectives, measurable quantitative and qualitative indicators, so that the beginning can come and, after assessing its implementation, propose solutions? The answer is 'no'. What the government did last November was to present the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as it called it, which was a wish, without any clear targeting, without any kind of planning of actions, without costing, without a mechanism of supervision and evaluation. So, what exactly is the basis on which we're talking about? But even that there was something. The possibilities of the Accessibility Authority by its very nature, as described in the draft law, will be completely limited. While, therefore, it is an instrument that has no role of supervision, no mechanism for implementing what it proposes and no accountability for them, it has the possibility of recruitment, awards, absorption and allocation of funds, which are disproportionately higher than what it ultimately offers. It is therefore more likely that the creation of this principle will serve the purpose of "enlargement" and "enlargement" of the Service of the State rather than of substance that actually concerns the life of the disabled. This is also demonstrated by the fact that during the drafting and consultation of this bill there were no secondary associations involved by people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the practical support for the disabled cannot begin and end in communication fissions. It needs a processed central planning, a painful scientific work and a political will. Unfortunately, that seems to be not the case with the current government. It is really a pity, because he could step on the work described by the previous government of SYRIZA, to develop it even more for the benefit of people with disabilities. In summary - previous colleagues mentioned - we created OPEKA, we introduced 15% for the recruitment of disabled people in the public sector, we abolished the EUR 46 paradox in the CEPOL, we introduced the concept of an electronic disability file, we financed projects and we worked with local government, projects such as the 'Sea Track' for the access of disabled people to the sea. But not to talk about things and the past, because I could talk long hours. Here in the bill you are reconstituting two committees, the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Bioethics, adding the term 'Technicians'. Why exactly do you re-establish two committees that have, in general, done a very good job to date? Is it to strengthen them? I guess not. In the Committee on Human Rights, you are changing its composition by flying out the Consumers' Counselor and by putting four representatives of the research institutes and the two teachers of HEIs to be selected from the other members of the new composition, without even setting the selection criteria. In the case of the Committee on Bioethics and Technology, you are raising the members from nine to eleven, but nowhere do you define the criteria on which these members will be chosen, not even the basics, that is, the scientific fields from which they come and their experience in the areas covered by the Committee. We're talking about objects that are distinguished by interdisciplinary and specialized knowledge. As one understands, each of us, as technology develops and as digital applications and artificial intelligence penetrate into every aspect of public administration, economy, education and everyday life as well as questions posed by biotechnology and technology will become more pressing and will necessarily employ legislation. Perhaps it has not yet been understood that these questions to which we will be called on as a society and a rule of law to answer concern not only issues of privacy and self-determination but also issues of life and death, such as programming in automatic decision-making systems, on road vehicles in relation to road safety, automatic braking, change of course and so on. Therefore, it is not possible to structures which could have not only an advisory but also a supervisory character and which relate to such a sensitive area that they are sacrificed to the altar of the need for your own children with a prime minister's choice. We all understand it well that what you cannot control immediately abolish it, reconstitute it and manage it with your own "excellent" of bad time. Stop that tactic. Finally, Mr President, I would like to have another minute of your tolerance. I would like to talk about issues and issues relating to accessibility, but also about the other problems facing people with disabilities. It takes a strong social state to resolve them, away from dogmatic perceptions and stereotypes. In September 2017 Mr.Mitsotakis said "I do not have any illusions about a society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature." It is precisely this, ladies and gentlemen, that condensates the whole problem. We believe that inequality is not consistent with human nature. We believe that these are the ones that throw large social groups into the margin and inaction. That is why we need as people progressive, as people on the left to fight for their elimination and fight to overthrow all those who cynically serve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u177	Thank you too, Mr. Katsey. Mr. Boubas Konstantinos has the floor from the Greek Solution and then Mrs. Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy is prepared. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u178	Good evening, Mr. President. So today we are going to vote one beginning and two committees, once again independent authorities, and we do not know how much the Greek people will pay for the marble. As far as accessibility for disabled people is concerned, we as Greek Solution had proposed that there should be a register and fortunately we were heard and our proposal was accepted by Mrs Alexopoulou then, our MEP, where at last we have a register to know exactly what the disability card will be, so that these people, and the proposal of our own, the Greek Solution, can be socialised. It is incomprehensible, however, to talk about human rights today and not to know how many homeless people there are in Greece, desperately seeking to survive in the trash cans. Why am I saying that? Because the Constitution also defines freedom - the right of man to shelter and food. It is incomprehensible that we do not know how many homeless we have and encourage them to make a homeless record, to know how many homeless Greeks are on the streets and benches. You are talking about bioethics, a condition introduced in 1971 so that positive sciences can be at the service of social values. What can you do with technology and bioethics when it's not serving humans? So that's where we have to put barriers, because man is not a experimental animal. When we tell you in the Greek Solution that the body and soul are of man and of the subject of vaccines but you tell us. Here, then, is where the individual right comes, the protection of man himself against experiments in general, after the Nuremberg Court in 1947, from the perpetual crimes of the Nazis. There human rights have been established in history, which are inalienable. That's what the Constitution says. There is no expropriation of the fundamental rights of the individual, and that is what we must respect. We've been talking about morals lately. Here comes the great Jean-Jack Russo, who said a timeless saying, which we must remember again in our days: When one cannot see morality with politics, he does not understand one concept or another. Now what's going on? Instead of giving up directly so that a case can be settled, it is what people say out on the street - just to say - "The tie to be afraid". It happens not just in the best houses, but it usually happens there, in the best houses, in the morale that we have to preserve it, because that is the standard that we create. Where? To a Ministry of Culture, which sucks characters and gives patterns. But instead of bioethics, gentlemen, we could tell you about geothermal feedingstuffs. What do I mean? Finally, make committees for the benefit of the Greeks, so that these committees can finally be of benefit to the labour market. That's how we'll get our kids back from abroad. We're not bringing them in with independent authorities. We will bring them together with substantial steps to be taken in order to make it really easier to find work. Not that research in general does not need to be carried out at scientific level, but here there is a risk for genetically modified products, for human genetic material. "Each science, separated by justice and by the other virtue, panoramicism, and wisdom seems," said Plato. Kyriakos Velopoulos, to remind him again of the President, talked years ago about 'MONSANTO', about modified companies, which are, gentlemen, related to bioethics. Because if we lose the man from the technology that is evolving, then the technology will be at the expense of the man. It jeopardises and destroys personalities, entities and these fundamental constitutional rights, which must be inalienable. Now, photographic recruitments again. When you create an open invitation, without creamism in choice, that is only the Prime Minister, who now wants to bring up, says, "livelo", the cultural level in the House, the Henrys are not the same, the conscience and the guilt of conscience we have for choice. Again, how will the members of the principle of accessibility for disabled people be recruited and the two Committees on Human Rights, Bioethics and the Technology you say? Open competition and go to the House, open Ventalia. Listen, if we are talking about moral and human rights, it is not moral and human rights being destroyed when we are stalling the old people to retire and they do not have the head of a bed, when people call the insurance funds and do not respond, the phones are dead when you do not incorporate them into heavy and unhealthy, when at the moment there are no machinery in hospitals and forcing them to go somewhere else, in private centres, this is a violation of human, social rights. When families are dispersed for professional reasons, it is "immoral". That is why we need to protect society in general right now. No reference has been made, no matter what, gentlemen, if you agree or disagree, to Mr Vathiotis. What the university Professor Bathiotis said - whom I do not know - was in depth. Isn't the human right to free will and philosophy of an academic who disagreed with all that unconstitutional human rights violationd, according to the Professor of Law of Criminal Law in Democritus who resigned from an anonymous complaint, being destroyed? Does this, gentlemen, not violate the human rights of a personality, an academic, such as Professor Baptist? Why did we do it politically arrogant? Where are the universities to take a seat? Where are the students to take a seat? Where's the political world? Regardless of whether we disagree or agree, it was a violation of human rights by an academic professor at the university, who for sixteen consecutive years was a professor of Criminal Law. He is the one who teaches individual freedom under the Constitution, and we forced him to resign from an anonymous complaint, because he blamed the government for this so-called 'digital cage' that we live in the days of Lockdown and the mandatoryity of the vaccine. Why? We didn't like his views? What was it? Any random ones? For sixteen years when the Baptist taught Criminal Law was good? As far as it's not pleasurable, are we trespassing the right of free will? To go to Article 13. You have put in for human rights homosexuals, Roma, lesbians, transexuals. Excuse me, shouldn't the Church of Greece be inside? Is there any fear in the Orthodox Church? Doesn't he talk to the philosophers about human rights? One hundred and ninety-seven points in metropolitans in Greece swabs into socially deprived and excluded people, people lacking food and shelter. Shouldn't the Church have an advisory and advisory character too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Booba, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u180	I shall conclude, Mr President. Why is this fear with the Orthodox Church that you do not include, while Orthodoxy speaks of human rights? Wherever it helps us to study children, to make hostels for poor people...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u181	Finish it, please. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Church of Greece had to have an opinion, because in the revolution we are celebrating, Gregory rightly lit the flame. I mean, the Church, which is currently helping undignified people, is not in Article 13, gentlemen! Why? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Booba. Mrs Alexopoulou from New Democracy now has the floor. To prepare Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos from SYRIZA for following. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we usually have to discuss sectoral reforms and development initiatives, targeted at specific issues that solve specific problems. Today, however, we have a bill that touches every appearance of the Service, but also of the human life itself, and has at its core the essence of our culture: human rights. The provisions of the bill do not simply concern people with disabilities. It is not only about people oppressed or from war zones or aliens or marginalized. They are not scientific and technological fictions. We're all concerned. Today, then, we are talking about equality and equal opportunities for access to the natural, structured and digital environment. We are talking about human dignity, equality, privacy, freedom of expression. We are talking about defending all rights and freedoms of all people. They are concepts that are horizontally perpendicular to every aspect of our culture and we must incorporate them into all our legislation, works and actions. This is what we are seeking with this draft law. A prerequisite for such a piece of legislation is a minister who wants, can and must belong to a government that has a view in the present and future, with vision, strong political will and determination. For the first time, a National Accessibility Authority is established for the monitoring, promotion and resolution of the many and essential issues that people with disabilities and chronic diseases and of course, their families. "Nothing about disabled people, without disabled people" is the basic and fundamental principle of the disabled movement and it is exactly what comes to guarantee the establishment of an official state institution, which is primarily managed by disabled people and will have a vice-president from the ESDC. The top importance attached to this institution is demonstrated by its recommendation not as an office or a department or a General Secretariat to a Ministry, but by subjecting it directly to the Prime Minister himself. At the highest possible level, namely, the country will have coordination on all issues relating to accessibility, in order to harmonise our legislation with Community directives, international treaties and technical assistance and education, for Greece's cooperation and representation in global organisations, for raising awareness and informing of public opinion. Of course, it is the National Accessibility Authority that will direct the state to study and implement measures and policies in the context of the roadmap called the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a further flagship initiative of this government, which brings together under one cover all policies that will give the right to people with disabilities to enjoy measures ensuring their autonomy, professional integration and participation in the social, economic and political life of the country, as our Greek Constitution of course requires. At the highest level of decision making, that of the Prime Minister, is also part of the National Committee on Human Rights, while ensuring its administrative and financial autonomy. Its task is to assist the state in trying to defend the individual, political, social, economic and cultural rights of every person in the country, whether he is Greek or foreign. Its composition demonstrates its broad and multi-level competence, and guarantees the objectivity of the proposals it will put forward to the state to improve laws and institutions. By controlling all phenomena of human rights violations, their dissemination and publicisation and the exchange of experiences at supranational level, the ECHR will significantly strengthen the country in performing one of its most important roles. He ensures that every citizen, regardless of age, education, sex, payment or belief, enjoys in Greece the universal values of dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, with respect for the principles of democracy and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1998 genetics and biotechnology took their first bold steps. They have still remained at an experimental stage and in the sphere of scientific research. However, then the country came to the fore, setting up the National Bioethics Commission. Today the upgrading of the role and the development of this committee at a central point of reference and at a policy maker, with the establishment of the National Committee of Bioethics and Technology, is essential, but again equally innovative. The applied genetic, with the help of extremely advanced technology, is already testing its powers in ways that sometimes disturbs our traditional perceptions of fundamental values of life and family. The achievements of science must respect the sensitivities of society, of citizens in matters of faith and religion. Technology has, of course, significantly improved the standard of living of modern society and changed for the better many aspects of our everyday life. But artificial intelligence and algorithms in supercomputers around the planet have reached a point to formulate and define to a large extent the way we are informed, which we have fun, which we communicate, which we consume, and many times even the way we understand the very reality. At the same time, there are already tangible rapidly worsening effects on the global economy by replacing human resources from computing systems. The human mind seems to be so absorbed with what it can do, that sometimes it does not account for whether to do it. It is therefore more important than ever to form a comprehensive and coherent legislative framework, which can establish the rules in time and set the limits on new discoveries of technology and genetic engineering. To this end, the National Committee for Bioethics and Technology can have a catalytic role. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are not voting on committee recommendations. The Minister of State creates three powerful policy-making tools, with a substantial role, administrative autonomy and financial self-sufficiency, falling under the Prime Minister himself. With strong legitimacy, links to all ministries and cooperation with all co-ordinated bodies, these three institutions can transform ideas into documented reports of real indicators and concrete action proposals. We live in a century where at all levels leaps. This bill will help us to pass carefully and wisely in the future by, as in the last few years, we have learned to do, the difference in the global map of actions and effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. Then get Mr. Dionysius Kalamatiano ready. Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill, which has inherently social features of widespread interest. That is why it really is very important to touch the core of the reflection of the Members of this House. First of all, of course, I would like to make a comment which has nothing to do with the bill being discussed, but it has something to do with what really concerns society. Today, there is a major social issue, on which the government shows that it is making panic moves. It's Mr. Lignade's case. In fact, we find that the government understands that it is a fact that goes beyond it. We have heard riots during the parliamentary procedure, with regard to the criminal dimension of the problems, that rape has been brought by the Criminal Code recommended by the SYRIZA and that there has been a lenient treatment of such violations. The reality is completely opposite. In fact, a new form of rape without violence has been introduced, but of course without the consent of the suffering that is a malicious act. This is very closely linked to Mrs Mendoni's question. And I'm surprised how the majority doesn't understand it. Ms. Mendoni is head of a ministry, which is not a common ministry. It is the Ministry of Culture, in which there must be the acceptance of cultural actors in their political leader. It is not a productive ministry, for which it does not matter whether or not the President of the Chamber is apprehended by the Minister. It is very important, therefore, that Mrs Mendoni, any Minister for Culture, should be able to speak with the cultural actors. And this legalization Mrs Méndonis has lost her. So there's no reason left but resignation. And every day that passes, the gap between the Ministry of Culture and the artists and society in general will be deepened. In the case of a bill, I will refer only to the National Accessibility Authority and to the other two authorities. Listen, disability is not just a physical feature of the individual. It's a social construction. People who fall short of physical or mental traits are ejected into the suburbs, in the margins of society, precisely because society does not get their way, does not welcome them by calling on them precisely with the features they have, but they are treated as if others were. So you realise the deep political content of dealing with disability viewing. For that very reason, there is a holistic, overall controversy from the side of SYRIZA. Therefore, we are not talking about individual arrangements in the daily life of the disabled. We are talking about a global change in the position of our disabled fellow citizens in the day-to-day reality they are experiencing. I would therefore like to say that on the basis of what Mr Gerapetti has proposed, this committee is an advisory body with limited power and object, with no control or commitment capacity for the State mechanism, with disproportionately increased recruitment capacity. Here again, we see the houi, which you don't say to cut off, to build armies of days in every way and every means. In fact, this is not an upgrade of disability issues, but a deterioration. The Government has the responsibility to legislate, implement and control disability policies and assign it to the National Accessibility Authority which, by definition, cannot perform this role. We have a diametrically opposite proposal with the creation of a structure, either at the Ministry of State, which will oversee all the state mechanism for the introduction, implementation and consolidation of practices that are friendly to people with disabilities. There must be a new agenda, with horizontal disability policies such as those already spoken by the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, and based on the facts of previous governance, SYRIZA governance. And I really don't understand why you're doing this. You delete everything that has been important in institutional terms over the previous period. We are rebuilding a new beginning, which will start from scratch. It's your regular tactic. Mrs Mendoni has done the same. He abolished the competitive process and chose the particular man, who is, in essence, the beginning of the end of the hegemony of the Mitsotakis government. We are therefore not consenting to this infinite enlargement of the Service. You have another minus. In the critical period of the pandemic, which let us not forget that since last year almost a year has been completed, there has been a total lack of measures for the social, health and financial support of the disabled. Finally, we must not forget that Mr Mitsotakis as Minister for Administrative Reform in 2014 abolished the accessibility offices, which were set up in public services to monitor actions and access for disabled people to the natural and structured environment. This is an act that follows and cannot be offset by the initiative to set up a committee without substance. I close by saying a few words about the disability that directly affects us as parliamentarians. I believe, and I have suggested it to the President of the House that the sittings of the House should now be subtle. Deaf people in a very large percentage know letters, they know reading and writing, and therefore they can read. We know the deaf tongue is symbolic. It cannot convey the wealth and content of the meanings developed during the parliamentary procedure, and we in Parliament must give a signal ourselves, that we understand as National Representation the circumstances under which a large part of our fellow citizens are experiencing. I shall conclude by saying a few words about the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology. There are no doubt two committees which have work to do. They are made up of remarkable people, men, who have left a print on public life. I do not understand why these two committees do not continue to be long-term. On the contrary, you again find the opportunity to change them in part so that you can replace the renowned executives who have been leading the operation of these committees with people who are in your environment to reproduce the existing system of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u187	Finish, Mr. Blonthopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u188	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's my last sentence. You do not understand that this is how you despise both the work of committees and people. That is why all your legislative initiative must be voted down. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Blondopoulos. Mr. Dionysius Kalamatiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with yesterday's unacceptable events at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Unfortunately, we understood what government officials meant when they said that with the laws you are voting on democracy now, they enter the universities. All democratic citizens of the country felt disgraceful about yesterday's images: inappropriate and hard beatings of students, using chemicals and arrests in the pile. Is that your vision of universities? Obviously violence and repression are the recipe of Mr Chrysochide and all of you for every reaction to your plans. You're targeting young people and young people. You're against youth and society. But no matter how hard you're trying, you won't be able to scare and terrorize. Our young people will continue to fight for democratic rights and freedoms for a public university that will be run democratically and will promote knowledge, education, productive reconstruction and social consciousness. I now come to the bill we are discussing and I will insist on the National Accessibility Authority you create. Try to build a profile supposedly near people with disabilities and chronic conditions. You are setting up another pragmatic independent authority, which will, of course, be here for the Prime Minister. But, in fact, you are downgrading the problems of our people with disabilities. This principle will not be able to coordinate, control and implement the policies on the rights of disabled persons to accessibility. If you wanted to achieve this objective, Minister, you should pursue sectoral and vertical policies across all the ministries. The principle you are making is a mere advisor with limited power and object. We should always bear in mind that the way in which a state, a society as a whole, faces people with disabilities demonstrates the degree of empathy and culture. Disabled people and people with chronic illnesses are not a small social category, but are worldwide one of the largest social groups experiencing oppression, inequality, racism and discrimination. With the establishment of the National Accessibility Authority, you are not organising anything essential to benefit disabled people. You are, of course, using cumulous titles for purely communication reasons. The SYRIZA Government within the memoranda and despite the financial constraints has tried to facilitate the lives of disabled people and their surroundings. I mention, for example, a few initiatives: we have gathered in the OPEKA, the special legal person set up, all disability benefits and paid them digitally every month for the first time. We have decided that 15% of public recruitment should be covered by the disabled and their families. We prevented disability assessment based on the model of functionality, what creditors wanted to impose to cut disability benefits and pensions. Now, unfortunately, we see that the government is reintroducing it with the National Action Plan and the Pissaridis project for the disabled with serious harm. We started, at the same time, major changes in the CSRs. We created the electronic disability file, which relieves the disabled of the need for physical presence at all stages, from the application to certification in the CEPR, except on the day of his examination. I, too, contributed to this as commander of the IKA - EBRD, and I am truly proud of this development that has really relieved the disabled. We worked out and published the new single disability determination table that includes new diseases, two hundred and thirty - five, compared with a hundred forty - five in the previous table. We have supported state subsidies for accessibility in public buildings and outdoor areas. We changed the institutional framework of special education with an emphasis on inclusive education and launched in April 2019 the recruitment of four thousand five hundred special education teachers. These recruitments, unfortunately, were delayed by the government for 14 months. In the everyday anxiety of parents about what will happen to our children when we are away, we have responded with a new legislative framework for sheltered living roofs. We joined a hundred and sixty roofs in the NSRP, which the government 'frozen', as well as the hundred family support centres in community centres. These, ladies and gentlemen, despite the constraints, have contributed substantially to improving the quality of life of the disabled. In this pandemic, this need is growing. According to many international studies, the health crisis hits the disabled, both healthly and economically, even further downgrades the quality of their daily lives and intensifys insecurity and isolation experiences. Nevertheless, in the pandemic, we see the government falling by EUR 96 million in 2020 and by EUR 88 million in 2021 the funds for disability benefits in relation to what the SYRIZA Government granted in 2019. In fact, over forty thousand outstanding applications have been cumulated in the CEECs and many disabled people and their families have not even the basics to survive. However, the government rejected our amendment, which we proposed to grant a double disability allowance to Christmas celebrations. Our proposal has not been accepted. In addition, the Government has not foreseen any prioritization of the disabled in vaccinations. They're still waiting for them to be vaccinated. All of this proves that the relief and effective support of the disabled are not in your priorities. I now want to refer to our proposals for the future in addition to what we have done in our previous government service. Our President, Alexis Tsipras, mentioned this. Our proposals are on four main lines. The first axis is to change the daily life of the disabled. This can be achieved - and I say some examples - by providing staff assistants or caregivers, as necessary, even on a 24-hour basis, by increasing the costs of disability benefits and granting them independently of age criteria by removing existing injustices in the categories of disabled persons. It is also necessary for all public-use buildings to be adapted to make them accessible and safe for the disabled and the disabled. The second axis is to ensure the future of the disabled. We can achieve this by strengthening and multiplying public diagnostic structures for the early and valid diagnosis of harm to children and adults, by promoting the inclusive integration education I mentioned earlier with free parallel support for students, by providing compulsory hours, workplaces and licences. The third axis is to change the way in which the damage is certified and restored. That is why we are proposing restructuring the CESR, increasing their number, doubling doctors in the committees, hiring out social expertise for the committees, extending the designation table with new rare diseases and chronic irreversible diseases. At the same time, we propose the creation of a wheelchair pass linked to its electronic file. The fourth axis is to implement the motto of the wheelchair movement: 'Nothing about us, without us.' It is necessary to involve the disabled at all levels of decision-making, in the central state, in self-government grades 1 and 2 and in the parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u191	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u192	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to stress that the overall legislative framework is what demonstrates what societies aiming at including, at parity, the empowerment of the disabled and what societies are characterised by divisions, exclusions and inequality are. We in our government, despite budgetary constraints, have taken many steps to improve. We don't claim we've solved everything. There is still much to be done. But we are convinced that we can and want to do more for our disabled people, because they deserve it and deserve it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u193	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker's circle has been completed. It has asked for the floor for Mrs Fotou to be re-examined only. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u194	Because the Undersecretary referred to me, I'll take some more time. I have seven minutes in normal, Mr President. I'm on deuterology. A lot has been said so far, Mr President. We get many messages from the people who are watching, who point out that disability is not a charity, it is not a matter of anyone's individual sensitivity. It is a matter of deep political importance and they are finally waiting for opinions to deal with their problems. Many things were said about what we did and what we propose from now on, as Alexis Tsipras said ten days ago about our disability programme. We have said - and colleagues have said - that we are changing the daily life of the disabled, based on decent and autonomous living and accessibility. Acknowledging the increased cost of life for the disabled, we gathered in the OPEKA all the disability benefits, we paid them digitally for the first time - for the first time! - on the same day of each month, we exempted them from taxable income and disconnected them from income criteria so that the disabled can benefit from all the benefits of the state. We are now saying that we are moving towards the provision of staff assistants according to needs, even on a 24-hour basis, to increasing the cost of disability allowances and to grant them regardless of age criteria, as is done unjustly for deaf people, by removing the existing injustices in the categories of disabled persons. Thirdly, we move on to the provision of childcare and maternity benefits in kind and money for disabled women from the start of pregnancy and for three years, to strengthen the handicapped in the production of cultural content, as well as to universal and free access to the places of culture, sport, recreation and a free vacation programme for the disabled. Two actions are of great importance for universal accessibility in the physically structured and digital environment. All public-service buildings within three years shall be adapted to make accessible and secure for disabled and vulnerable people, and, secondly, twenty cities on the ground shall be piloted into fully accessible neighborhoods for everyone. We ensure the future of the disabled. What did we deliver? We have changed the institutional framework of special education with emphasis on inclusive education. We announced in April 2019 the recruitment of four and a half thousand special-education teachers and these recruitments were delayed for fourteen months. We have worked out the national strategy for decoupling, with the flagship law on taking up and adopting, which has been digitally operating since April 2019, and we have established a hundred sixty roofs of supported living, which you have not yet implemented, in response to the agony of parents for the future of their children, when they will disappear. We have strengthened the right of disabled people to work. For the first time, by law, 15% of recruitment to the public is covered by the disabled and their families, and we intend to extend it to the private sector too, when we are good enough to come to the government. For the first time, people with mental damage and mental patients do not lose their allowance when gaining work. We extend this to disabled people with motor and sensory damage. We propose strengthening and proliferating public diagnostic structures for the valid and timely diagnosis of harm to children and adults and promoting inclusive integration education, with free support for students, compulsory provision of working hours, workplaces, controlled teleworking and leave to take care of the damage. We're changing the certification... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, have I been wrong? I have seven minutes of dentistry time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u195	I didn't interrupt you. The clock hit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u196	Why do the bells get bored? I'm losing my heart that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u197	The timer's ringing alone. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u198	But you're the one who puts time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u199	I'm putting the time together for protology and denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u200	We're changing CSR certification. We have made major changes in CEPR with the electronic disability file which relieves the disabled of the need for physical presence at all stages, from the application to certification in CEPR, except on the day of his examination. I would like to ask you, Mr We prevented disability assessment based on the model of functionality. We've been through this. We have added forty-five rare and chronic diseases, those that are judged once for the granting of a life-long allowance. We have included ninety new diseases in the new single disability determination table and have for the first time implemented a remote interpretation system for deaf and heavy people by mobile, on a 24-hour basis, the RELAY system. We propose restructuring the CEPD, increasing by 30% their number, doubling the doctors to the crisis committees, hiring social specialists to staff committees, extending the single table of disability rates with new rare diseases and chronic, irreversible, extending the entire territory of the electronic disability file with a request from his home and connecting him to the disabled person's pass, for digital and physical accessibility to services and allowances. I shall now reply to what the State Secretary, Mrs Michailidou, personally persecuted me. He said I'm generally using a curtain of truth. I'll talk about the truth wrapping unfolded in her speech by the Undersecretary. Within eight minutes nine ascensions or poachings and a lot of confusion. Firstly, the final proposal by the Government for the Recovery Fund has not yet been sent to the European Union. So why the false announcements that an early intervention programme for children is being implemented in the range of autism at nursery stations financed by the Recovery Fund? Secondly, the disabled were not prioritised to vaccination. Those who were vaccinated are, he said, elderly and chronicly suffering from structures, institutions. I hope he knows the difference. Thirdly, how did you provide more money for disability? Read the budget you deposited. It's public documents. It is 97 million less in 2020 than 2019 and 88 million less in 2021 since 2019. Make them remove. Fourthly, you mentioned that you have made a national mechanism for the disabled. A year and a half later, Mrs. Secretary of State ignores what we handed over to her. We have handed her a digital national mechanism for monitoring, evaluating, coordinating social inclusion policies and cohesion. It has been running in forty community centers and in the OPEKA since 2017. It is not a national disability mechanism. Fifth, you gave 25% more voucher to disabled children. You knew well that you were giving them for the show, because there were no places and that is why they were not absorbed, they were not used. We won't make fun of the children with disabilities. Six, you said you announced three hundred and fifty seats...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u201	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u202	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u203	You're exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u204	There will be no clearing now. I'll say it! You said you've been proclaiming three hundred and fifty places for social welfare centres for the first time. We issued PYS 33/2006 for these and more positions. You found them ready and published them a year later. The best of all, however, is that you personally accused me of engaging in New Democracy policies on disabled assistants and disability passes and I legislated, with primary legislation and press releases, without secondary legislation and implementing provisions. Here the people, Mr. Minister, says the cute "said the donkey..." etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's see the example of the law of assumption and adoption. In 2018, the Act of Acceptance and Adoption, with seventeen CSUs and CSUs, is an effective digital system that has been in operation since April 2019 and is fully implemented. You have had the Prime Minister inaugurated two times an existing law, and not only that, to launch an existing digital system, the 'Anynet', which was already in operation a year ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u205	Mrs. Fotio, please complete. You've been in ten minutes. We've got to get this over with. This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u206	You'll hear them. As for the matching of children and parents made with "Anynet", unfortunately, you are announcing false evidence. What I'm saying is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u207	It's not right to turn off the microphones, but you can't talk this long.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u208	You're announcing false evidence. It's not five hundred parents and children matching. It's not a hundred and I'll prove it. Eighth and eighth, we have no desire to settle the disability card because it is an outdated and useless technology. It requires specific reading devices and each body through it gains access to personal data.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u209	Mrs. Fotio, it's not right to turn off the microphone. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u210	We'll explain the difference next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u211	There's your hawk!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u212	I shall conclude, Mr President. Be patient for a minute. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u213	You're wrong. You've spoken a total of twenty-seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u214	So we heard this inconceivable by Mr Papadimitriou, who recalled in the Lignade case the rights of the homosexuals that SYRIZA does not help with his attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u215	I've never done it to turn off the microphone. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u216	What does the rights of homosexuals have to do with the Linguid case?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u217	In this Parliament we have never closed a microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u218	What does homosexuals have to do with paedophile and rape issues? I do not forget that in 2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u219	Don't make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u220	It's okay. I'll say it. I am not forgetting in 2018 that New Democracy voted against the right of a couple of couples to a cohabitation agreement to take a child as a foster family.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u221	What you're doing is uncooperative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u222	And since you're here and you're protesting, Minister, a propos, will you support the homosexuals' political marriage?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u223	You broke time in your protology. You've overcompensated the whole time. It's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u224	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u225	We have told the Conference of Presidents not to interrupt. It's elementary courtesy to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u226	I'm fed up with culture in this Chamber at the expense of counter-population.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u227	But it's not the way you say it. You're wrong. All the President-in-Offices respect the speakers, but this evil thing with you is not done. And it's not the first time. Excuse me. But it's not right. It's uncooperative. We cannot cut off your colleagues and you have this arbitraryness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u228	Let go of this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u229	In any case, no one else wants to talk to the rapporteurs. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u230	I can give part of the time to Mrs. Fotio to complete if she hasn't finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u231	Minister, you are entitled to eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u232	I will not use them, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u233	All right, I'll put 15 of you from there, we can see. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Fotio, I don't want you to feel wronged. You spoke the twelve minutes you talked about, you said nothing about the bill. Expected. I didn't expect it, I didn't have the expectation, I didn't have the confidence that today we'd hear about the bill. You're here. Your parliamentary representative has generally spoken about the government's policy on what he referred to. The respected former President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsi, spoke of Kufontina. And you spoke about SYRIZA's policy in the period 2015-2019 in social. A word, even about the eyes of the world, about this bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u235	Didn't you hear my prototype?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u236	Mrs. Fotou, did anyone interrupt you? But did anyone interrupt you all this time? Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u237	It's embarrassing to say I didn't talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u238	He's criticizing. You, too, criticised me, and I was absent from you, Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u239	Respect us, Miss Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u240	But he says I didn't talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u241	Please, Mrs. Fotio. It's not an impressive place for the House. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u242	So to talk about the issues of today's bill, which, in my view, is an important bill. Unfortunately, topicality on many points overshadowed the debate on this bill and I feel particularly bad about this issue. Two words about the story, until we get here. Indeed, there is a sequence of events that led us to today. With regard to the two committees, the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics at first and foremost today, it was the Government in 1998, the PASOK government, which introduced the two committees, which were indeed innovative for the time. It was a timely resolution of the United Nations, which was adopted. The Bioethics Committee actually captured the guilds of the times. It was a need that came up at the time. The ethical issues of science were then due to take place, so it was a quick response of the government at the time. Of course, over time, there has been a need for these two committees to evolve in two directions. The National Committee on Human Rights is indeed a successful committee. I also served in it for three years as a representative of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. He produced an important work. He needed a renewal. There was a need to strengthen and not only did it require it to be able to produce a better job, but because it is also demanded by the United Nations, so as to maintain the status quo which it has in the categorisation. As far as the Bioethics Commission is not concerned, the truth is that the fourth industrial revolution has created much more and new needs. We are all now aware of what it means to be moral not only in the classic field of science, but the corresponding morality also passes through the part of digital transformation, in particular the new technologies. It is no coincidence that in February 2020 a ‘white paper’ was published by the European Commission, which related to artificial intelligence. And, of course, as early as 2019, we have again within the European Union code of conduct on these issues. Bioethics and technology osmosis is necessary. This is how it appears in all the major administrative systems and I think it will give too much energy to these issues. The third committee, the Committee on Accessibility, is indeed a new committee. And there, indeed, the things, the related transformation, the steps forward started in 2017 in the government of SYRIZA with Law 4488, where there was indeed the introduction of a coordinating mechanism, which could take the really difficult task to activate, coordinate, monitor policies for people with disabilities. It has been a very difficult task, for which I will be allowed to say that there has been absolutely no energy for two years. This mechanism has not been activated, it has not been promoted and there has not been any action at all within the framework of this coordinating mechanism that was defined as being the Minister of State. On the contrary, just after the vote of confidence in the current government on August 6, two weeks after the vote of confidence, the Prime Minister himself called on the disabled movement in his office and pledged that the coordinating mechanism is immediately energised, a National Action Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will be drawn up and there will be the National Accessibility Authority, as foreseen as the first major action. I am proud to say that both of these have been completed in the time required, although it was a titanium - I repeat - a project. This is because it was a project which concerned all ministries horizontally. These are actions which cannot be isolated. They can only have one central coordination, but the individual implementation of these policies must be carried out by the institutions, namely the individual ministries. And that is why I will not discuss the question of the creation of a new State Secretary, which would obviously be a model of failure. I don't understand. I listened carefully to all the suggestions. As you have seen, I have been here throughout the ten hours we have had this sitting. I have heard things that have not been understood, such as, for example, that we could transform the Bioethics Committee into a ministerial decision - so I think Mrs Fotou said - or that SYRIZA made a codification for people with disabilities. Evidently neither is standing. I wish there was a codification. I think Mrs. Jufi mentioned it. If she knows, it would be nice to promote it to me as a follow-up, and I'm going to credit her for making this codification. And because you spoke of what happened and what was not done and there was a bewilderment "But you did well not draw up the reference points provided in and the National Action Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities", to inform you that there are at last these benchmarks throughout the local government of grade 1 and grade 2 and ministries. So what you did not have time to do, we did it in these eighteen months, if anything, to restore things to their right dimension. And I listen with caution, but also curiosity to try to interpret the productive causes of this initiative. Do you really think the productive things were that the Prime Minister or the Minister of State had in mind building a new "strategic" who will serve him? Is that it? If that is the case, there is a very simple answer I can give you and I will develop it a little later. The simple answer is that all three committees were given the initiative by the relevant bodies. Do you see any bodies that are so self-sufficient that they want to be transformed to become a believable speaker of the Prime Minister and his undermanagement? It was the National Committee on Human Rights that speeded up the change in the institutional framework, which it had also requested from the previous government, but had not been heard. The National Accessibility Authority is an initiative undertaken by the ESRA. He asked the government and the Prime Minister and is being implemented today. The National Bioethics Commission and its development came after discussions with the committee itself and with the valuable professor, Mrs Rethymnonitakis. So don't look for ghosts. It is the very reality, the development, the technology and the needs of modern times that require that we have such changes and it is also the initiative of the same important players. We are not prepared and could not change the National Committee on Human Rights because, Mrs Fotio, we do not appoint a single person. Under the former regime, the Prime Minister was appointed. Now he doesn't appoint one. How do we get the president when we don't appoint one? So there's no dark cause behind it. And now I'll answer the rest. We're coming with a single bill. I have heard again, 'But why are you bringing in a bill when it comes to three different committees?' Because they have the very basic view that these are the rightful committees which fall under the executive function, and that is why there is a single canvas. And this type of horizontal actions are useful. Let me just remind you that the two committees, the National Bioethics Commission and the National Committee on Human Rights, namely the existing committees, had come to the law. It's not that we're making some kind of innovation, nor that we're trying to frame you to vote for one place and not to vote for the other. So, there's no need for concern. Why, in general, new committees? In order to be able to understand the situation, one is the new committee and is the National Accessibility Authority. There's in all the legal classes. If you want, we can discuss the need for this committee, but we will discuss it before the wheelchair movement requested by this committee and explain to them whether you want this new committee or not. Can I tell you something else? I too, as I have said in committee, have always doubts and I am quite reluctant as to whether we should have independent authorities. But this is not an independent principle. And it's something I can't say in a different way. I have heard it from many rapporteurs, from many speakers and speakers. There is no new independent authority. They are State advisory committees which will recommend public policies to the government and the Prime Minister. This is precisely what is necessary between the democratically elected and legitimate government and the technology that is necessary. Of course we will have a very prestigious Greek scientist in Greece or abroad who will take over President of the Commission for Accessibility. Is it not right for these very important Greeks with specialization in the objects to have them give us ideas on how to implement policies? You don't want it? I really don't understand what the objection is. It's hard to understand. This is not an independent authority. The government remains fully accountable for all actions. However, the producer of politics, of public policy, also wants to have the special know-how to do so. We do not feel that we are aware of everything, particularly in matters that are very complex, such as the morality of technology and the morality of the positive sciences. These are very complex things and they need special know-how. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, I will not answer. I think it's self-evident. Advice on implementation shall only be upgraded to be subject to the Prime Minister. It is no coincidence that the JSA itself, the Higher Organisation of Persons with Disabilities, asked the Prime Minister himself. However, I will tell you something simpler. The two committees which we are debating today are already subject to the Prime Minister. It's not that we made some kind of innovation, and we transferred them all to the Prime Minister. I hear it, but I hear it a little curiosity and fun, that we're going to swell the Final State. Are we really going to intensify it with existing structures today, of which we are also making sure that those appointed by the Prime Minister are out of the way? Is that the logic of 'enlargement of the Final State'? Stop having this type of conception of what constitutes a state. It's good to have one of your own models. If you come to power at some point, we'll see your model. At the moment it is that and, in our view, it is also an effective model of power. I've heard a lot about the composition. So let's see what we're doing. National Committee on Human Rights. Because I've heard before, "But, what are these? You put in every walnut, non-governmental organisations." We did a rationalization. In this committee, some forty-five people participated. It was absolutely dysfunctional and could not produce any policy at all. It's just things. We have made every effort to reduce participation in this committee. How? On rational criteria. The first criterion is that the committee should be phased out. There is no reason, in our view, for the chairman of the Special Parliamentary Committee on Institutions and Transparency to be in this committee, representatives of all parties, two people appointed by the Prime Minister without any criterion and seven, I repeat seven representatives of ministries. How can this committee be independent? So we said that this part will come out. And so that there can be a link with the committee, we have created the new radiological function of the operating link, so that there can be contact with the political world, but we are maintaining only in the hard core of those who come from tertiary organizations, namely, from the RESEA, but also from the highest on the Roma, namely the 'ELLAND PASSE' and from recognised civil society bodies. Do you disagree that there should be representation of environmental organisations? For the first time, we bring environmental organizations in. Mr Hetas said, "But are you well equipped to bring environmental instruments that are contrary to your policy?" But that proves the fact that we want them independent. We want them to be independent. And since you mentioned it, the only intervention made by a previous law in the national committee during the previous governance was to add five members from the LGBTKI community. There must be representation. But you realise that when there is no one who represents a friend - environmental organisations, there cannot be this super-representation. It's self-evident. We confine ourselves to one representative from the community. What happened is a complete streamlining of the composition. In addition, I should like to say about the two other committees. You said, "But you'll do well to nominate without criteria." It's not without criteria. I leave the Accessibility Committee with known prestige. When the faces come, we'll see if you agree or not. I'm sure you'll agree. There is representation from the RESEMA itself. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The former status of the National Bioethics Commission was as follows: nine members were scheduled, who were once again nominated by the Prime Minister, without any participation at all. I would remind you that on your own initiative, on the initiative of this House, we incorporated the opinion of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency. And what were these young scientists? So listen to what it was: one of Biology, one of Genetics, one of Medicine, one of Biotechnology, one of Philosophy, one of Sociology, one of Theology, one of Public Law, one of International Law. But is this a committee setup? There should be a possibility for you to get scientists who first serve multidisciplinary objects. They are scientists who cannot be standardized in them. They are scientists who serve more than that. There should be a possibility for scientists who heal the objects of the committee, to be able to attract them. That is why we have put the safety test in that they should serve in cognitive subjects, which are relevant to the purposes and activities here and, indeed, with a balanced representation of positive sciences and health sciences, so that there is no unequal situation between them. Finally, I would like to say a word about the issue of self-sufficient and partisanism. I really can't understand it. I read and reread. We don't add people. We add five staff to the new beginning. Do you want us not to put them on? Do you want the National Accessibility Authority not to have a supportive member? And his logic of bringing in seconded workers was that there would be no extra financial cost. Where we could carry from public overstate services, we could do so, so that there are no new appointments. But is it five people who create us this overload of the party state, the army, which, as I have said to you, is no longer there because we no longer appoint to the Committee on Human Rights? Was that the logic? Also, why, if we want to party and control these authorities, do we give so extensive responsibilities? Why do we give the possibility of limiting responsibility so that there is openness and not fear of any intervention by the government? Why do we actually have, for the first time, in listening to the request from the National Commission, a separate legal personality for the ECHR? For just one reason! What we are interested in is that we have consultants who have high know-how, but also a high level of integrity, so that they can advise the state, to have public policies that respond to the weather, but which will have society itself as a basis. Because we have too much participation in the Civil Society, are you in favour of the Civil Society? We have ensured that there is representation by all actors, by the civil society, by organisations, by judicial bodies, mainly by rights which serve vulnerable categories of our fellow citizens. Do you disagree with that? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] I close, Mr President, and apologise for little misuse and overrun in time. I want to tell you I'm really surprised today. In the Final State, in the first bill that came to Parliament, I had no expectation that I would have ears. I knew it was a very big cut. We were changing a model of governance. We went to a system for the first time in Greece standard, where constitutional powers are distributed, as they should be distributed. I knew there would be a reaction. Today, I tell you on account of knowledge and sincerely that I did not expect a reaction to this bill. I had the hope that it would be fully accepted. We are not talking here about the policy that we will apply to people with disabilities. She's on record. The National Action Plan is registered. It has six pillars and thirty goals. There is democratic accountability. If we do not implement them, you will be the first to check on us and you will do well. But this is not what we are talking about. We are discussing the establishment of the National Accessibility Authority and the strengthening of two existing committees, which will be the State's consultant. Why wouldn't that unite us? What do you disagree with? Even after ten hours of discussion I still do not understand what the objection is. If someone listened, they'd think there's no value in this bill. However, it is an international practice that is well established. Everywhere there are these advisory committees for these specific items and above all they come from their own bodies. Our own institutions have asked for the creation, on the one hand, of transformation and strengthening on the other. Is it possible not to listen to those who are supposedly well aware of how they can work better and how they can contribute to the democratic functioning of the culture? I close by saying this: unfortunately, it is not common that the cases that we in this Chamber can even agree on the basics are not common. This is a case like this. Please don't lose her. I ask this House to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Minister of State: "National Accessibility Authority, the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-nine articles, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. You should make sure that you have voted for all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u244	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u245	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u246	The draft law of the Minister of State: ‘National Accessibility Authority, the National Committee on Human Rights and the National Committee on Bioethics and Technology’ has therefore been accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u248	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-23-S1-commons.u249	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.54 the sitting on Thursday, February 25, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: discussion, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House of the quality of democracy and of the public debate, in accordance with the special agenda.
