ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin, I would like to make the following announcements: The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with his letter of 5 October 2021 to the President of the Parliament, informs us that MP I of Athens Mr Constantine Bogdanos is outside the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. The letter will be submitted to the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u2	The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the establishment of a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation". In addition, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum ‘Definition of contractual texts regarding the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD)’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House: We are currently informing you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny on Wednesday, October 6, 2021 that the Question No 8/4-10-2021 will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. We now move on to the second debate under number 8/10-2021 on the first question from the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on "The redundancies of thirty-six workers in the Greek Weapons Industry (EVO) in Agios". The question will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. The debate on this question was to be discussed last week, namely last Wednesday, but the Minister of National Defence had miserable obligations. And I say this because on Thursday he held a board of NCAs, where he actually gave an extension of a few weeks, with regard to the thirty-six contractors at ONEX. What is the strange prehistoric of the whole process, Minister? The procedure is that, in early August, a new extension was granted to the contract signed since 2017, which is continuously extended between NSAs and ONEX in order to continue providing the employees until the work undertaken by that company as a contractor was completed by 31 December 2021. That's what happened in the beginning of August. From 1 September, that is, the contract was renewed for another four months. On 16 September the Director of NSAs for Defence Supplies comes and says that we do not have raw materials to operate the plant and therefore it is therefore appropriate to terminate the contract of thirty-six workers. If I am not mistaken, on 24 September, the ONEX Management Board met and decided to sign a contract with ONEX, the same contractor, for two years plus one year not for the provision of work, but for the provision of qualified staff. After the reactions that have been made, the mediation solution was that until this 20 million-dollar contract was signed, the workers in their positions would remain the same. So the questions that arise, Mr Minister, are too much. Firstly, how does this change of views exist in such a short time? Secondly, why is it that at the moment, while there is a possibility for workers to remain in their positions, since the total staff at the Aegean factory is very small - they are thirty-six contractors plus ninety-one permanent staff - in 2022, if I am not mistaken, the thirty-seven will be brought to the pension, so that the factory cannot function? And these, when the previous order has not been delivered, and when there was a decision of the CAGE to give the factory of Egypt a new order of a thousand Minimi and five hundred TAKs, which is not even implemented once you see the factory could work. What we are saying is that these workers should be transformed into permanent workers, because they have both the know-how and the experience of operating the plant. They're based on the factory. So why, instead of going into such a procedure, do you not make this simple? The NSAs are putting ONEX as an intermediary to hire rented workers, while the NCAs themselves could proceed to contract workers without the ombudsman. In other words, they also pay capital only for the provision of workers. This is an absurdity to the whole process, Minister, and of course it does not ensure that these thirty-six workers who have the experience of the factory since 2017 will remain in their jobs after a few weeks. If this hides privatisation of the factory’s work it is an important issue to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to put things in a row because I can argue that irrationality is also the Ministry of National Defence coming in and taking a position on the way the NSAs are managed, while the guys are the supervising body, but in fact they are the main, if not the only client of NSAs. And it's really paradoxical about how the modern economy works to account for how the material supplier to him does his job. As you know, the owner of the company is the shareholder of the company and the shareholder of the company RAS is the Ministry of Finance. The management of the company is the management of the company. She's making the decisions about the company's management based on its management right. The question of whether a defence material supplier can stand only with one customer in the modern market and the competition it is developing is perhaps reasonable, and I would say that it is difficult anyway, unless this customer keeps making orders. But buy raw materials too? I don't know of any restaurant I'm coming to as a client to order a meal and the restaurant tells me "go and get the raw materials to eat." There's no such thing. As you can see, this is an issue that the company will have to solve. What I have to say to you is that on 1 October an increase in the NSA's share capital by EUR 29 million was announced to meet needs from the Ministry of Finance, the shareholder and owner, 15 million to repay third parties, 4 million to payroll and 10 million to supply raw materials. At the same time, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, we are trying as the Ministry of Defence to do everything we can to get some orders that, as we are the only customer, will be able to support the work and therefore jobs in the NSAs. Thus, the GES has launched the procedures provided for in the current legislation - these procedures, as you can see, are not required from one day to the next - for the activation of the following programmes by the company SA: the supply of a thousand light weapons Minimi, with a total estimated cost of about EUR 10,900,000, the conversion of five hundred fast-changing multi-pilots, the so-called SGMs, as you said, at an overall estimated cost of EUR 2,132 million, the upgrading of rockets of 122 millimetres, with a total estimated cost of around EUR 87 million and the supply of cartridges of total estimated cost of a programme of approximately EUR 14,5 million. You know that cartridges are not made in Hay, but in another U.S. factory. The GES intends to make orders for the implementation of these programmes in total estimated costs of around EUR 115 million. The timetables are related to the procedures for awarding these documents to the NSAs. Moreover, one thing that I think is important in our debate is that in this case the conclusion of a contract between the NSAs and the contractor is about providing a specific project. You say it's not about work, it's about workers. These workers do not have any employment relationship with the NSAs. This is a contractor's staff. This is linked to contracts with the contractor and leaves with the end of the project. This is why the possibility of renewal or non-conventions relates to the relationship between one another and under no circumstances to the Hellenic Defence Systems and thus the Ministry of Defence. As regards the permanentization by means of the conversion of workers' contracts into permanent and stable you know that it is not provided by law. Recruitment of temporary or regular staff to the NSAs shall be subject to the public recruitment scheme. Perhaps because this system is delayed in meeting needs, this is why a solution to recruit staff through contractors is chosen. From there on, I'll tell the rest in dentistry. That's enough of these two elements. The GES is doing everything they can to get orders from NSAs, but also from there, the issues of internal management of their workforce will have to solve them as a company managed by its management under the supervision of the Ministry of National Defence, but as property through the shareholder composition of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this timely question we have tabled to the Treasury as well, because as you have rightly said, it is what has the shares of this company. But here we are not dealing with a simple relationship between a client and a company. Client is the government, shareholder is the government. The two ministries could have agreed and had a specific plan for the Greek defence systems, and much more so since the armaments expenditure is multiple billion euros and the naval expenditure is too many billion euros on an annual basis. So a piece of them could maintain the functioning of the NSAs and upgrade them. In this respect, therefore, it is a question of this. Such a design does not seem to exist. Of course, there is competition, there is European defence industry policy as a whole that supports multinationals and turns domestic small defence companies into their subsidiaries. We are aware of the competition for Greek defence systems, but also of the supply of equipment between large multinationals. We are aware of the interest of the Israelis, the Czechs, the Americans and a number of others in such projects which could have implemented the Greek defence systems. From this point of view, you said that for at least three years, not to say four years, only with the thousand Minimi and the five hundred SGMs could have been guaranteed the operation of the plant in Saint-Holy, only on this order. Not to put in the middle and the national rifle, announced by the former State Secretary for Defense at the Egyptian factory, that it will be given to saint. On the substance of this, Mr Stefani said and created expectations in the world. This is an issue that has not yet been cleared up in the Ministry of Defence, namely what is going to happen with the national rifle. There are also a number of other issues that we could see. These are issues that raise questions. Why, for four months, the four hundred barrels in Minimi that were ready did not go to Switzerland to check and surrender and to continue the supplies and transactions with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence? Therefore, it is apparent from the whole process that orders will be made in the next period, but it seems that the design is that the NCAs will not create them in their present form, but in a form of privatisation either through the contractor undertaking them or through a partnership with other business groups. Here, Minister, I understand that it may take some time to sign a fixed-term contract with public workers, but this situation has been in place since 2017. In this time, both the previous government and the current government could have taken such initiatives. Let me tell you here that the previous contract with EMU provided for a project. The new Convention which is being prepared to go to the Court of Auditors for pre-control and which has been decided on the last board of directors does not talk about the provision of work. He's talking about providing skilled workers. So he has the NSAs, EMU, to give it staff and pays for "davads" - so we say - 'ONHHH' for this staff, i.e. employees who are rented. Finally, Minister, the laws do not allow for permanentisation, but you are a government, you could have changed these laws that prohibit simulations. And you were given the opportunity to review the constitution and the proposal of the JRC, and you did not choose it, because some parties might and politically interested in being the workers hostages of this situation. So, Minister, I insist on the question of whether the Ministry of National Defence will take some action at least by these workers not to lose their positions and whether the NSAs themselves will proceed to recruit staff. The Minister of Finance is your colleague to the Government, you can have a very specific debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u9	Colleague, the law on recruitment in the public sector may bring about a flexicurity, a delay in the process, but it is not forbidden for recruitment. In ODA, for example, where there is a project and need are staff recruitments to meet the requirements for the implementation of this project. So, above all, there is a stable workflow, a project that should be implemented. As far as we are concerned, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance are doing everything we can. In other words, as I have told you, we have always been in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and have explored every possibility of submitting some orders so that the NSAs will have a job and therefore there is a need for the maintenance of jobs. As far as the rental scheme is concerned, this really allows me to say that it is an internal matter of the administration of the NSAs. I think that if there was an excess of work, the problem they would face at the moment is to hire others and others. That does not exist at the moment. We have, however, said as a Ministry of National Defence that an industry like the NSAs, a pillar of the supply of defence material in the country, must remain at all costs. Of course we haven't said anything about privatisation projects. The national rifle, as you say it, is a really flagrant project, which could - and I have said it in public too - mark the origin of the NSAs in a course of blooming and fiery production. It is, however, a programme which we have announced on the one hand, but on the other hand we have not launched for the next period. This is part of the overall planning of upgrading the Armed Forces armaments systems. We have said, however, that whenever it occurs in terms of co-production and the new national rifle will be produced at the OSH plant in Santa. The saint produces the weapons. Munitions, missiles of every calibre are produced, as you well know, in the other U.S. factories. So, yes, the future may be the programme for the national rifle, but the programme for the national rifle is not immediate performance, it will not be called out of what I at least know, and I know enough about the planning of the Armed Forces in the next period, it is about the future and if you want it to be in the medium to long term. But it would be the solution. Meanwhile, the aim is to maintain the NSAs in production and therefore the need for staff working with the orders of the Ministry of National Defence in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, which, after all, gave his consent to the financial injection in the NCA by increasing share capital, the 13 million that I told you, given that there will be orders. We want to keep NSAs alive. This is a decision by the present government, and so we need to find ways, not by the stagnation, if I may speak, but by providing the NSAs with a flow of orders so that they continue to work and the workforce is employed in these programmes. There are unavoidable procedures by the Ministry of National Defence in order to proceed and implement programmes of the General Staff. On that occasion, if there are dead intervals, there are issues that the management of the company should internally regulate as far as the employment of its employees is concerned, as is apparent from the management right. The company mandates, the Minister of National Defence doesn't mandatorate or the Ministry of Finance. As an important element, therefore, of the domestic defence industry, we believe that NSAs should be maintained in production, because the future with the national rifle is provided for prosperous. The future, however, will not arise tomorrow, or in a week or two, three months. The national rifle will be integrated into the overall design. You know the priorities we have given this time with the great equipment that we are implementing. And the national rifle is somewhere there. In the meantime, we will do what we need to support the operation of NSAs through a process of production that workers will carry out orders and work. That is where the Ministry of Finance is based, I imagine, to serve, as I said, the money to buy raw materials and proceed with orders. It also supports the Ministry of National Defence in the way I explained to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. The first question under number 36/4-10-2021 of the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: "To receive a direct advance from the taxation of the bet on the amateur unions of the country", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. At this point we will be adjourning the meeting and at 11 a.m. we will continue with legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: 'Conventional texts relating to the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD)'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who object to the ratification of this Convention for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, may speak for five minutes, provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote will take place after the end of the debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u12	What kind of colleague from those who have reservations, or is he against the floor? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u13	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u14	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. Thank you again for the services of this House. Exceptional personal reasons keep me at home, and that is why I am making use of this possibility, which obviously does not replace living presence, which gives another dimension and substance to the debate. Mr. President, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u16	Colleague, you have five minutes but there's a tolerance. However, because there is another legislative procedure then, as long as we can keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we come to debate in plenary the ratification of the International Centre for Migration and we would expect it to be a debate within the framework of the arguments and the logic of the Convention itself, always setting a general framework. However, yesterday's picture in committee did not confirm this on the part of the Coupling and, in particular, of its rapporteur, since we had the logic of 'the police officer and the policeman', which we know with the Minister to come and ask for a consensus afterward, and to pretend that he is 'doing it' and actually referring to the contract and a rapporteur who made a real far-right delirium, a disgraceful attack on SYRIZA, with inaccurate mistakes, slogans, lies, etc., while we should focus on the basics and general context, but always with arguments, seriousness and not just the rest of the context, because he did not say a word about the bill. But this is the great picture of yours, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because on the one hand there is the deletion of Mr Bogdanou and on the other hand there are at the hub of neural ministries, Mr Vorides, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Ploris, and on the other hand, as is your policy in refugee matters. So we're not surprised, but obviously this is a tactic that can't be unanswered. Now, in substance, we have said yesterday about the provisions that go beyond the substance of the provisions, which have been analysed and their details and their contents, and when these provisions come, as well as the direction of some international centres. Questions are therefore being asked why this convention is now coming, since 2020 had been signed, of course, since the country was present as an observer. Also, how are you now showing and projecting international organisations - and why should the country be present - in recommendations and resolutions, while in the past you have completely deceived them? And we are talking at a time when we have Samos and the other islands that will follow, with the closed structure - thousands of people in prison, a camp in fact with the entry-out and detention notes of most people, which will welcome thousands of souls. We are not saying that depth should be closed obviously, but that is why there was provision for a smaller open structure that you have not exploited, and that certainly does not help the country's position in the Immigration Pact, since de facto gives it a form of prisoner of Europe. So in this context this convention, as we said in the committee, is also coming up for an International Centre for Migration, whose correlations we analysed yesterday politically. It is mainly controlled by Visegrad and the Balkan countries. We did not see in its actions, its site and its texts specific references to cases of reception, integration, best practice, etc. It focuses more on the logic of management, deterrence of causes, which too poorly analyses, because the causes are also interventions, it is also poverty and hunger and all that. Of course, it also agrees with a sponsorship logic that seems - which fortifies the country's position on the Immigration Pact, as far as the first-stage countries are concerned - the donations system to be held, as I have transferred you to history with the Czech MP in Strasbourg, all the people in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From that point on, I would like to mention the fact that you have said, as we have asked you, what is going on with the countries of the south. This is what we call for a debate in this House as well to strengthen the country's position, because we, too, - and recently in the Ministry and in the House - support the fact that there must be a mandatory solidarity and distribution throughout Europe, responsibility and strategy for political connections, so that we can move forward with our positions. It may not be easy, but it is possible and in the government of SYRIZA it has been done on various issues. We invite you to bring it in, because it will also help us to fight for the Immigration Pact. From that point on, we should also focus on the fact that there are more general policies which, apart from the International Centre for Migration and what it does and what its statutes provide for, there are also policies in Greece, which are dissuasive policies, are prison and detention policies for all, including those that are vulnerable. It is a policy of retreat and disappearance, which is not even answered by the relevant ministries. It is also the logic for Afghanistan, which was analysed yesterday - in addition to the serious issues of transparency that exist with the direct assignment made - with its content and purpose, but also with the raw and cynical adoption that we have prisons here in the country in bad conditions, as well as with the assumption that for the EU. We're a soul storeroom and a prisoner. With these policies and these ads you do you understand where we are driving. I'll say a word that touches my region. Because you said about the parliamentarians from Afghanistan. In fact, here we are talking about absolute communication. Obviously, we are in favour of saving lives and their families and protecting people with positions of responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Comrade, please finish because you've been in the seventh minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u19	I will end in a minute, Mr President. From that point on, however, we should have in mind that when in 2018 at Saints Theodores refugees and immigrants had come from the islands and you poisoned the local society for them, now you come and celebrate for a few very few MPs and Bulgarians, who have come. However, the world does not forget the micropolitical and poison you have spilled to exploit it politically. Towards the end, we said yesterday your choices in asylum, residence permits, citizenship, the national integration strategy, which all affect such decisions. Mr President, I will close with this because it is our position. It is our line on these issues. The international presence of the country and diplomacy, the extermination of the issue of refugees - immigration, which is a difficult issue, is obviously within our 'fare'. And giving battles in connections is something that we have proved and we want. You are the one who deceives international organisations and their functioning and obviously also the specific international organisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u21	Wait a minute, Mr President, to complete my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u22	You've been in eight minutes. As I told you, the program is very assured.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u23	I'll be right over. It is an international organisation, which has a direction which, from its action, is inadequate and fragmented and has no real emphasis on modern migration policy needs... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). There is also the European network, which is doing this. Your policies are based on communication, and you are making use of it, but also on all the rest that I have said at national and international level for local societies. We will therefore go to the "residences" for all the reasons, knowing the importance of the country's participation in such organisations, but recognising that its function is very limited and fragmented, in another direction, on many issues and on policies in Greece which are inconsistent with what we want and we serve in Greece and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Kamines.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. We will ultimately vote in favour of the bill, because we believe that it is good for the country to participate in a forum where these issues are being discussed and to contribute to the formation of opinions. From there on, no excesses, of course. This is not the International Centre where the fate of migrants in Europe will be decided. Suffice it to note that only thirteen countries are involved, that they are mostly Visegrad countries. From those countries that have common interests with us, namely countries that participate in MED 5 - Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Malta and Greece - only Malta is involved. Large countries, such as Italy and Spain, do not participate. Therefore, neither communication channels of substance will be built with Turkey nor with the other countries. This is precisely what we are voting on today. It should be noted that we have a Greek, who is a top internationally on migration issues. You know that, Minister. I had brought you in touch. He must have him your right hand. He is Dimitris Papadimitriou, President and founder of the Migration Policy Institute. It is among the top five people in the world on immigration issues. What should concern us, too, is where we should build alliances and move the European countries, which have the opposite interest to Greece, are the European institutions. And there, unfortunately, the government has presided over us that it is not going to succeed. And what is essential? The essential thing is that European countries show solidarity and bear their share of responsibility for immigration and asylum. That's it. Of course, we cannot ask Europeans for solidarity and not for solidarity between us, why, in fact, do we end up? We see that with developments - the new pact - as set out for the next few years, the country is at a high level. On the one hand it has Turkey, which keeps the key to the inputs, and on the other hand it is Europe which does not accept to discuss the basic issue: relocations. The country is on a larvae, so. In a similar, tighter, the islands are found. Why? Because what you have been constantly accusing SYRIZA of, that he had accepted the geographical restriction in the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey, the restriction of that, namely, which says that those who arrive on the islands will remain there to accept them - at any time - Turkey, the same restriction you have accepted. So the islands are in tighter size. That is why it makes no sense to give us figures and percentages. Why? Because the issue of immigration is what the surrogate is doing. It is true today that the flows have been reduced, that asylum applications are actually being handled and that the islands are being dismantled. Tomorrow? The day after tomorrow? Is there any assurance that Turkey at any time will not decide to blackmail us at the moment when it is working together, because it has a whole lot of reasons to do so, opening up the cliff again? That is why you are creating these great structures on the islands, and you are enchanting us that they are structures of a few thousand, and we know that if - the non-genus - the crisis breaks out, boats will come to our islands every day by tens of thousands. Against this prospect, against this possibility, in general terms, in the future and beyond the crises we have with Turkey, even because of climate change that will constantly increase migratory waves, what do you have to say to islanders? I repeat the same thing I said as Mayor of Athenians. And then I said that we cannot ask Europeans for solidarity in immigration and we cannot have solidarity within the country. However, the Central Association of Municipalities then whistled indifferently and the problem swore it, as it was, to Athens, as is called today, unfortunately, to the islands. So don't mention us what Samos' site was saying yesterday. Yesterday they may not mention the refugee, but they have no guarantee that tomorrow it will not be front page, that the problem will still not be settled there. We therefore want you not only to achieve Greece's participation in some areas of dubious utility and efficiency, but from you we demand that you impose the country's positions on the basis of equality and justice in the European Union. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. I have the honour to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister for Finance submitted to the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs on 4-10-2021 the draft state budget for the financial year 2022. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. With the ratification convention, our country accedes to the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, another international organisation for the management of the immigration issue, but with the aim and content of the aims that are indeed unveiled in its first article. This is clear from the principle that national measures to control incoming immigration are not sufficient by themselves to maintain the extent and composition of migration flows at the level that the parties want. What, in other words, do you confess by cynicism, talking about desirable levels of area and human beings, as if you were talking about goods? That the content of the international cooperation which is being built relates to the adaptation and 'opening' of the string in the reception of migrants according to the short-term interests of each state and always in the context of its fragile agreements with the civil classes of other States, in order to ensure a lasting increase in the degree of exploitation of the working class, both of local and foreign workers, in each country. After all, it is clearly recorded that the Agency has an expanded scope of action and that it coordinates foreign, asylum and refugees policy. The timing of accession to this agreement is not at all random. You admit it yourself, too. It comes at a time when the contradictions and negotiations for the signing of the European Union's new Pact for Migration and Asylum, while, of course, all civil servants focus on increasing new refugee and migration flows in an environment of storming international developments and severe competition between the largest imperialist centres. But since we heard you yesterday, Minister, talking about fighting the causes of immigration, we should inform you that this is not done with advertising campaigns that will advertise - you say - the dangers of illegal circuits and immigration routes. You really think they don't know them? But do they know even better and live in their minds the dangers created by imperialist interventions, control and conclusion of the richness of the regions, which you are not only applauding, but also in practice supports even the missions of the Greek Armed Forces and Arms to protect the truth of whose sovereign rights in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Libya, elsewhere, in sub-Saharan Africa you are currently preparing? Do you, in the context of the advertising campaign, advertise the increasing complaints about the disappearances of people on the Greek coast? Do you want to familiarize the Greek people with this inhumanity? And then you claim to fight the causes of immigration by advertising repression and caging to the uprooted people you create? And you say this also to the people of Afghanistan, who are unjustly trying to hide that they are refugees whom the policies of your allies in NATO and the European Union, with their willing and valuable participation, have created. Of course, there is the essence of the problem of the famous advertising campaign and not just the noise of the opaque procedures and the scandals that SYRIZA is stirring up to which we do not see. But we wonder: If the campaign was conducted transparently, would it not disturb its content itself? Then, of course, it should be said that the policy of deterrence and repression is the official policy of the European Union despite the delusions it is trying to create on the contrary, and it is not the only one. It is also indicative of the nature of this organization to which our country is also invited to join the objectives described in the Convention, namely the regional approach to the action of the Agency in order to create effective cooperation along the migration routes as priority areas from Africa, central and southern Asia to Europe and the Middle East. It is clear that this is an international organisation aimed at more effective cooperation in the implementation of border repression, more rigorous control and the working of migration and refugee flows in its geopolitical plans, but hiding that this effort to work, to penetrate various organisations and groups in third countries, is what actually fuels new competition and new outbreaks of ignition. It is also aimed at monitoring and conceiving the uprooted, but also integration policies aimed at consolidating their exploitation and while the majority of them are the most vulnerable and impoverished part of the working class in each country. What are the tools of this international organization yet? The exchange of information and data, cooperation with other organisations and repressive mechanisms, such as FRONTEX and EUROPOL, which is already happening in the work done by the Agency with funding from the European Commission and the States Parties, namely the people's money. In short, the experience that is intended to be translated into best practice is about the single strategy of urban states on the exploitation and repression of migrants and refugees, and above all it maintains the conditions, agreements, and the bargains that keep all these people trapped in our country today. Of course you know very well that these conditions as long as they remain active will keep them trapped in the future. So we can only make it today that this policy will also concern the functioning of the new concentration camps on the islands and are being prepared precisely because the causes of immigration and refugee are maintained and the inalienable condition of caging in the islands and our country, which is also included in the joint declaration of the European Union and Turkey and which are essentially the subject of a hamstorm and the new Immigration and Asylum Pact. Of course these policies do not concern policies for the effective protection of the rights of the uprooted, who are the victims of capitalist barbarism and the imperialist war that you all actively support. That is why we are also voting against this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The reason is now the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas. Until the Step is settled, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its report today at the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Metarakis, if we had anything to talk about, we'd had a word. That's the story today. We had to talk and we had to talk. Another intergovernmental organisation, another forum, another agreement, an obligation for our country without any real positive benefits. Why do we ratify an agreement because it can be an obligation, because it is an order or a matter of communication? I will actually go directly, Mr Metarakis, but I will say two - three things, because yesterday you told us to say five things in general about immigration. We'll tell you today and we'll tell you five things because you probably have another picture you and a completely different picture of all Greeks and us. You shared, you know, simple promises in advance that you will solve the problems which afflict the Greek people, but every day you disappoint not only us, not only your voters, but all Greek women and all Greeks. You know, our party, the Greek Solution at the very first moment, pointed to the huge problem, the great burden that our homeland has to bear, raised by thousands of illegal immigrants. Where do we start? From smugglers and illegal traffickers? From the illegal circuits? From the solidarity and uncontrolled NGOs? From Turkey, which has not stopped its aggressive policy, which has not stopped, threatened, intimidated, without accounting for anything? And you had underestimated the problem. And now, for the contents of the bill, I will point out the simple thing about the Greeks listening to five things. Why should Greece participate in a centre that observes migration flows and analyses the phenomenon? Phenomenal? That's not a phenomenon, gentlemen. This is a wound, it's a big wound. Immigration and illegal immigration are a huge wound to our country. And why should Greece take part somewhere - and even pay - where Member States - are Turkey, Skopje and Germany? What for? I don't understand. Do we have common interests, mutual trust with these states, with Skopje and Turkey? Let me get this straight. For Turkey, I will not say much - much. You all understand. What can I really say about Skopje, Mr. Metarakis? What can I say? You have proven your credibility or rather your unreliability from the way you handled the oppressed, betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors. And not only have you not vetoed for joining the European Union. Now you put your hand in Bulgaria too, because it vetoes. Bulgaria's ruining mayonnaise. So low you've arrived. I will not say about Mr. Teddy's visit to Skopje. I will not say that the President of the Republic welcomed the President of Skopje yesterday. And to bring the contracts, the Skopje protocols to vote now that there's a nice climate, electric. Well, let's go a little bit, Mr. Metarakis. What did he say to us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Metarakis yesterday? He told us that the data on migration is clear. Did you say that? You said that. Upstairs. And you started to say everything that you've done with your mind, the great statistics, the numbers, the numbers, the ones that got down, the people that went, so much we do, how nice we did everything. You know, that reminds me of something I had lived when my daughter was a little girl. It reminds me of a little kid you tell him "keep your room together" and that stacks everything in the closet, closes the door, and once he opens the closet, it all falls down. You've got a nice set! That's a nice mix you've got! What are the features, you say, of immigration? Let us tell you what the data are. You said yours yesterday. Do you know what the data are, Mr. Metarakis? May I remind you that the Greeks and the Greeks are listening today? Based on the state budget for 2021, 564m euros is paid by Greece. Data. Last year, EUR 605 million, again in the budget. He was paying a sucker Greek. Framework agreement on the feeding of thousands of foreigners: six geographical areas, forty thousand fed, 900 million euros. We pay a billion! Intelligence, Mr. Metarakis. For the provision of a facility management service of each type of temporary reception facilities of half a billion euro. Data. Another given given, construction of Reception and Identification Centres in Samos, Kos, Lero 120 million euros. Intelligence, Mr. Metarakis. He pays the sucker for the Greek. And they are with stadiums, sports spaces, events, cultural and creative employment sites, computers, mosques and a thousand two. Data, too. Benefits and benefits in kind, housing, the "ESTIA" programme for 2021, 91m euros, Mr Mitarakis. Data, too. And don't tell us that funding is from European funds. Get some more data. Given that Greece has become an endless hot spot, Minister, illegal immigrants. Whole neighborhoods, whole neighborhoods, entire squares, entire regions have been converted into Islamabad. Data and that. Given the vertical increase in crime. Do you know this data, Mr. Metarakis, or do we have to tell you? And you said about Chios yesterday. Really, don't you know that on our islands we have looting, vandalism, catastrophes? Intelligence, Minister. NGOs continue to act uncontrollably. You'd shut it down, check it out. Another given one. You've done nothing. You've given them superpowers. More data. Granting of an autonomous residence permit for reasons of pity. Another given one. If their application for international protection is refused, they shall be released free of charge until the licence is issued. There is also evidence that you are offering everyone health care at the same time as the ESS is falling apart and the Greek can't go do tests or an operation. And the culmination is that you have given NGO overpower with your last bill. Do you know that? These are the data in migration and illegal immigration, these are the data that people experience out there, the Greeks and the Greeks. The rest belongs to your stratosphere, your imagination, your parallel political universe. There's nothing else. That is why you must shield our land and sea borders, close the NGOs. We simply call it two and a half years: you will have to act on our party's proposal for immediate and temporary movement of illegal immigrants into uninhabited islands with human structures. Apply the exception to Article 33 of the Geneva Convention, which provides for the re-promotion for reasons of national security and public order. Say it, there's that, do it. Do all this, the rest is great statistics. You don't make fun of the Greeks with them, know it. But it says your papers and others say life out there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fotini Bakadima, special speaker of Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the accession of our country to the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, the ICMPD, which has as its centre eighteen Member States, which is active in more than ninety countries worldwide and is pursuing a regional approach to its action, as it is aimed at creating effective cooperation along migration routes and with priority areas, Africa, Central and South Asia, Europe and the Middle East. At yesterday's meeting, Minister, you presented as a historic opportunity for our country to join this organization, an organisation which has an observer position in the United Nations and will help with know-how and production of texts managing the refugee crisis. I asked you specific questions yesterday, Minister, without answering. I will repeat them today. I have asked you to give us some examples of tangible results of our country's entry into the centre, examples of volunteer training and the content of the notorious workshops organised by the ICMPD. I asked you what kind of services the center offers its members, so also in our country. You made your location reference to three projects that touch the three most basic migration routes, without giving us a full picture of our participation in the activities of the center. But you know, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, what really gave me a big impression when I got the bill and started looking for the center thing? It seemed to me that there was or at least I did not find any criticism of it and, of course, not because the international community blindly agrees with its actions. It is, in fact, strange how such an organization, known prestige as yours, has no tangible results, measurable results, only actions such as conferences, seminars and beautiful, pompous, well-written, huge texts. For a centre, which is being welcomed as the only immigration agency linking politics and action, promoting, supporting and facilitating synergies between the research community on the subject and the people who act in the field and the citizens and politicians, but also a centre that comes to respond to the growing need to produce policy on immigration, it is, at least, worthy of wonder how such a, really, useful interconnection has not been captured and not measured in numbers. ICMPD seems to be operating more or less as an NGO, as a Think Tank where discussions and analyses take place, but without seeing the results of the actions. But let us see what exists under these beautiful and well-prepared texts and words that fill up the organisation's website. You will allow me to take you to June 2020, at a press conference held in Vienna involving the Director-General of the ICMPD Centre and the Austrian Foreign Minister on the occasion of the launch of the Border Control Programme in Tunisia, the IBM Tunisia III programme, another programme to monitor and monitor the country's borders, which has a budget, according to the press release shared on that day, EUR 8.3 million and financed by the governments of Austria, Germany and Denmark. He said, and the Austrian Interior Minister at a press conference said: 'When it comes to preventing illegal immigration, Tunisia's borders are equally bordered by Austria'. The Centre has been asked to assist Tunisia throughout this period in coordinating governmental migration management projects, training local authorities, organising discussions between government representatives and society. Most importantly, action in the field and individual projects had a final budget of EUR 33 million for Tunisia. In the context of these actions, the Centre has undertaken to train the Tunisian police and customs, to provide advanced border monitoring and monitoring equipment for the country's border guard, to set up two training centres in Beza and Tozer set up to facilitate training of Tunisian border guards and police authorities in neighbouring countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need your tolerance for a minute, Mr. President. Under the pretext, therefore, of transfusing know-how and the development of policies and actions that would work to strengthen the country, essentially Tunisia is slowly turning itself into a guardian of the status of European borders and an absolute fortress that prevents people from moving freely. The ICMPD, despite the fact that a new relevant organisation has been transformed in recent years by a small consultancy provider that was at the outset to a significant service provider for European States and a vital factor in the outsourcing of the European Union's border status. You asked yesterday, Minister, to put aside our internal political differences and to support our integration into such a powerful international organisation. Can you really guarantee us that we won't be in Tunisia's position? Even if you could, the fact that, in the already problematic policies and proposals of the centre, you will receive them and you will apply them, a government that publishes the rehearsals and caging, the only thing we have to do is that today's accession has nothing positive to give to our country. As I said yesterday to the committee, Mer 25 will vote against the bill, refusing to agree with an act that will keep our country a prisoner of Europe and, indeed, at a dubious final cost for Greece and our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, my colleague. As far as the parliamentary representatives are concerned, does anyone want to speak? Nobody. Immigration and Asylum Minister has the floor for ten minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very positive that the Greek Convention of Accession of Greece to the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, one of the most important organisations involved in the debate on immigration and asylum in and out of Europe by promoting dialogue between different geographical areas including the main countries of origin of refugees and migrants in Europe, is being adopted today. Of particular interest to Greece is the organization's activity in third countries and regions such as countries on the silk road, namely Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Iran and Iraq, from which immigrants come to our country. I would not say that this is a historic opportunity, as the last speaker said, but it is an important centre that will help Greece to promote our dialogue and positions. It is an organisation with an observer status in the United Nations. She works with more than seven hundred players and partners worldwide. It is also working systematically with the European Commission, which is the largest funder of the activities and programmes carried out by the Agency in third countries of particular immigrant interest. The Centre was set up in 1993 at the initiative of Austria and Switzerland. There are now eighteen Member States - thirteen of which are Member States of the European Union. Germany recently joined the Agency and Turkey has been involved in the organisation since 2018. The issue has been raised by some speakers that the majority of the countries belonging to this organization are not Mediterranean countries. That is right and that is why Greece wants to be part of this forum so that we can have a channel of communication with countries outside the Mediterranean countries with which we already have a very close and institutional cooperation now. We want to be able to speak with all the countries of the European Union because to reach an agreement defending our national interests in the new Immigration and Asylum Pact, this dialogue, in particular, with countries - let the term - a different school of thought be allowed for us, is particularly critical. And, of course, our participation can make an effective contribution as a counterweight to Turkey's participation, providing sound information on our country's positions and on what is happening in the Aegean Sea, where Turkey has undertaken, on the basis of the 2016 Joint Declaration, to prevent illegal departures of boats or from land borders to the European Union. Indicative of the increasing gravity of the centre in the international and European debate on immigration is the role it has taken as the official secretariat of the most important governmental migration dialogue and cooperation processes between Member States of the European Union and third countries of transit and origin. I should like to stress and remind you of Budapest's procedures for dialogue with the countries on the silk road, the Prague process for dialogue with countries in the Eastern Neighbourhood of the European Union, the Rabat dialogue on countries on the Western African migration route, which concerns us or the Khartoum dialogue on the debate with the African countries which also concern us. Greece's accession to the ICMPD also confirms the excellent cooperation that has been developed between the Greek authorities and the organisation as reflected in the activity of our country's services in regional action programmes. It therefore gives us the opportunity to strengthen our country's position in the dialogue on immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we discuss something about immigration, we are always given the opportunity to have a more general debate and the speakers of the opposition have taken this opportunity positively. I think it is time for the permanent Commission to re-examine the country's situation in migration and dialogue at European Union level, and we will ask the government for a debate to be held in the next few weeks. With regard to what has been said today, it has been said that none of the figures are relevant. Very interesting. It seems that Opposition no longer suits reality. For the fact that our country has fully recovered control of immigration, where flows are almost zero, 90% lower in 2019, where about 3/4 of the country's structures have closed down in recent months, where now the hosting structures are almost 1/3 of what they were a year and a half ago, for the fact that our country is now not pressed by migration, the response to counterpopulation is: "Nothing is of no importance." KINAL's special speaker said about Samos. He indirectly admitted - and I thank him - that the situation in Samos is now completely different than it was in the period 2015-2020, with less than three hundred more residents in the new closed structure of Samos, that is, the structure is 90% empty. Vathy is no longer experiencing the migratory crisis, and the structure has now been delivered to the inhabitants, as we were committed to, confronting another myth of some who said that the new structures will take place and that the old ones will remain. Of course, KINAL raised the crucial question, what will happen tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This is the challenge, and that is why we have an integrated strategy within and outside, in order to achieve sustainable substantial reduction in flows and a sustainable drastic reduction in the impact of the crisis on local communities. And even though the neighbor's role was mentioned, I don't have that defeat. I think that our country can - something that it proved last year in February and March - deal with decisively, organised, with any temporary attempt to work on the migratory crisis. And I think that the countries of the European Union are now speaking with one voice and on the occasion of the recent attempt by Belarus - which is being made - to work, and on this front, the migratory crisis with flows towards Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. So the New Democracy Government is facing both today and tomorrow with determination and clear objectives. It has been said that in the negotiations on the new pact, compulsory solidarity is essential. I agree half. I think that these are two essential, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union's response to immigration. The first essential thing is to drastically limit the size of the problem of immigration, so that we do not relive the 2015 mistakes, as the Interior Ministers unanimously said at the recent Council meeting in Brussels. Europe can do much more today for the external dimension of the migratory crisis, for the protection of European borders, and for the return of those who are not entitled to international protection. In the new Pact two are essential. Firstly, the sustainable reduction of illegal flows to the European Union and secondly, substantial solidarity. Greece has said more than that, ladies and gentlemen. It speaks not only of a mandatory mechanism of solidarity, but also of removing restrictions on the right to move within the single European area of those entitled to international protection. Because we cannot talk about European asylum procedures and European regulations and then talk about national responsibility. If I can speak of the observation made by the Committee of Officers, it has been mentioned in a very modest and muddy way and, in particular, in what the Grevena experienced. He referred to what Grevena experienced, a prefecture of the country, from the pressure of immigration, like myself as parliamentarian province, I know very well what the Aegean islands experienced in the period 2015-2019. I think this now belongs to our collective memory. But the islands are no longer a storeroom of souls. Only 4% now - hold that number! - refugees and asylum seekers are on our island. 96% is off the islands. So the government's policy and the new closed structure will discuss it when the relevant convention comes to the committee. At this point, I would like to open up one parentheses and say that all the contracts for immigration we have brought them to the committee responsible, which was not the case in the previous period. There was no contract that had come to the committee during the previous period. What we are saying is clearly that these new structures allow the closure of structures within the urban fabric, which is currently being called for in both Lesvos and Chios, and which operate in an overall policy to reduce the pressure on immigration. In conclusion, I should like to stress that as usual, the special speaker of the Greek Solution is not saying that the costs of immigration are expenditure covered by the European Union, such as the construction of structures, such as the 'EXTIA' programme, such as feeding, such as the management of structures. It is expenditure that the European Union covers, and due to the very large reduction in the number of asylum seekers, the flow of these costs will be reduced every year. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful that there is a wider majority in the ratification of this agreement. I think it is an agreement that we could have unanimously accepted. The involvement of our country in a European centre which discusses the migration crisis, I think it is only good for the country. Simply, unfortunately, the need to hear a opposition speech and this ratification of a painless agreement, if I may, shows, unfortunately, that opposition does not want to contribute to issues relating to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too, Minister. A single debate on the principle, articles and all the legislation of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum on the subject of "Definition of contractual texts regarding the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the draft law, an article, an amendment, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u35	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u36	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u37	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum: ‘Creating contractual texts concerning the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD)’ has been accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u39	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Request for waiver of immunity Member: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on the request for the waiver of the immunity of the Member of Parliament, Mr Stavros Keletsis. The report of 22 September this year was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Stavros Keletsis' immunity should not be lifted. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or adjudicating upon the request of a public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of 7 March 2018 of the Conference of Presidents on this procedure, the new system of electronic roll-call voting has been triggered. I would also remind you that your vote relates to the request of the prosecutor, namely those who wish to vote in favour or against the withdrawal. For anyone who wishes to do so, he can vote'residents'. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said. So the case concerns Mr Keletsi. You have been informed of the offence for which Mr Keletsi's file came, through the Ministry, by the prosecutor. It concerns a complaint against Mr Nicos Pappas, who, as a pre-inquiry officer in the committee responsible for the offences allegedly committed, accused Mr Keletsis of not being transferred to the committee's report. Mr Keletsis came to the committee, gave his explanations and the committee decided, as I said, by a majority that the immunity should not be lifted. Of course, we'll hear Mr. Keletsi. Under the Rules of Procedure, if there is a colleague who wants to, he can take the floor. Mr Stavros Keletsis therefore has the floor. Mr Colleague, the Rules of Procedure say five minutes but it has prevailed by custom since then, the incumbent MEP is a little over time. As soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u41	I shall try, Mr President, to be as brief as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the first time since post-Macedonia - if not in modern political and parliamentary history - to request immunity in this House on a matter concerning the functioning of parliamentary procedures and the interpretation and application of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is obvious that the complaint lodged on 19 May by the former Minister of SYRIZA Mr. Nikos Pappa against me was purely political and served purely political purposes. What were the targets? To harm the authority of the committee that has done its job perfectly. I would remind you that, until then, all the decisions relating to procedural matters, to the functioning of the committee, to the exercise of the rights of the defendant as being accused had been taken unanimously. So how could the authority of the committee be affected? By undermining her president's authority. The second objective was to disorientate the press and public opinion. I would remind you that the complaint from Mr. Pappas and his attorney, Mr. Manjurani was lodged on 21 May. Already, on May 17, 2021, the main witness Christos Kalogericas, who had tabled things and miracles for Mr. Papapas, as well as on May 18, as well. So the debate in the media, in society and in the public opinion had to escape from the substance of the case, get away from what Mr Kalogritsa has said, and so the fireplace was invented to the chairman of the committee in order to transfer the debate from its essence and the charges against Mr Pappas to the complaint against the President. And to a certain extent this has been achieved, since all the news reports on television, on the websites, on the press, everyone has dealt with Mr Poppa's complaint against me. I do not hide from you that I have had publicity, of course, creating the defamatory picture to the Greek public for me that I am in breach of the Rules of Procedure of the House and I am illegal. So what had Mr Kalogeritsa said until then and had to be at all costs on the part of Mr Papa and Mr SYRIZA to postpone the debate somewhere else? So here's a remembrance. "After the first victory," says Mr. Kalogeritsa, "of SYRIZA on 25 January of '15 and until we arrived at the referendum and then in the second elections, of course, before '15, I was engaged and actively supporting SYRIZA with all my powers. All my years I've been left and I'm still left. After the elections, we won. Again, the same people - and I am referring to Mr Pappa - "were called and asked to join them in a few things fundamental to the media". Question of my own: You have said human beings. What people? "Nicos Pappas was first and foremost some other children. I may not remember their names now, but I will remember them along the way, I have them recorded." And he continues his statement on the 17th day of the month: "In the summer of '16 there was an interest in this team that I was working with - the team, Nikos Papas and this company - somewhere in the summer of '16 called me" - these are all of the record of that day - "My dear friend, Nikos Papas, and he tells me: Captain, will you continue to give us your name and everything we ask you if we put someone else in the canal company? I said, well, I came with you, with this company. I don't know anything, but tell me. That's exactly where he told me that there are some foreigners who are interested in having a participation in the channel and putting money, so it serves us, the channel will be ours. He also mentioned the names of the strangers. I've heard of them. I didn't know them, I didn't know them. The way Nikos asked me to do this, I said let's go. Since August I have not met any of them yet: I want to inform you to meet these people. Indeed he called me, informed me and went to an appointment in Porto Heli where I met with some of them." Ask me when Mr. Pappas called to tell you to meet, where did you see him? Answer: "With Mr. Pappas he met everywhere. With Papa, we were friends and I met him at my house, at his house, at my office, in Maximus. Mr. Poppa, I met him everywhere, in the taverns, everywhere, in my country house, in his country house. We met everywhere. As to what and how I'll look at my papers because today I didn't come with notes." This and many other things - I will not mention all of them, of course - were mentioned that day at the first meeting by Mr Kalogritsa and there was a clear threat that there would be a continuation. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, there were alarms both in SYRIZA and on the part of Mr Papapas and horror, since all this had to be silenced, not to be heard and the suction firework was invented. Now why am I being accused of Mr. Pappa? I'll read you a little quote from the second page of the month. The complaint refers to the meeting on 17 May and they say: “At that meeting the witness, Mr. Kalogeritsa, made a number of contradictory allegations, such as the withdrawal of his previous claim of the existence of written messages, SMS, which allegedly confirm his allegations. While further there have been dialogues between the members of the committee, such as between its chairman, Mr Stavros Keletsis, and the rapporteur, Mrs Jackis, who has addressed the above-mentioned SYRIZA rapporteur with deceptive allegations, such as you are not in the hairdresser, with the result that there are tensions and conflicts between the members of the committee. At the end of this sitting, I received copies of her minutes on the same day. It follows from reading these copies that the transcript of the above meeting is not complete. On the contrary, there are serious deficiencies in material statements made by the witness, such as the withdrawal of his previous claim for written messages, which allegedly confirm his allegations, as well as the above-mentioned discussions between the members of the committee and, in particular, the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur, Mrs Jakri." These are the accusations that Mr Kalogritsa withdrew the claim that there were sms and the second that there were no conflicts between the MPs on that day, between Mrs Jack and me. There are no other charges. With regard to the alleged withdrawal of the SMS, it is therefore self-evident that this claim, allegedly, has been revoked, is false, since at subsequent meetings - already the next day on 18 May - Mr Kalogritsa referred to them and even presented some of them to the committee. Therefore, the law of the other part is completely false and this, in the knowledge of the messengers who filed the complaint on 21 May, since already on 18 May Mr. Kalogritsa had filed the SMS. In particular, on 18 May, under Protocol No 20, the following SMS was submitted to committee: "My Nicos, my pleasure and my Lebanese, because on 7 I leave for Porto Heli, but I didn't understand much, probably nothing, I need to know something." And it continues: "SMS the previous one came out wrong. Since yesterday you said that this afternoon we were going to talk about it. Because at seven o'clock, I need you to know something, take care of it before I go and let me know. Because if we don't talk, then we probably won't. I am sure, in other words, that there will be no result. The days are over, so bail will not exist. You know, you decide. I say again, if we don't, zips." In reply to Mr Papapas on SMS, "We speak before you leave". Hot: "I'm waiting. Do I have to go through you around 6:00? Comrade, where? To you or here?’ Reply Poppa: "Wait a bit, whatever you say, and when you say so, just as long as I leave you at 7 o'clock." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Keletsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned SMS, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The other SMS is filed on 23 May. The Pope sends a message: "What happened with the newspaper?" Kalogeritsa answers: "My Niko, it's all right. Why did something happen that I should know? Comrade greetings." Poppas: "I hear about closure, be careful." "They don't belong to us," says Calocris and continues "About a housewife, did you hear anything? Household and not close, my Nikos. What do you mean by "watch out"? I love you. Comrade greetings." 'If it closes - Mr Papapas says - take care of it'. "Nico, we won't shut it down. Who's gonna shut it down? The only ones who can be the journalists. You know what? I also ask, what do you mean, mate?” Pope: "I mean we shouldn't be exposed. He says Mitsotakis through Theodorikos has raised a subject for you. I don't believe it." Kalogeritsa answers: “Such so-called doubts elsewhere, not to me. If you don't believe it, what do you care where he buzzes? I partyly disciplined and disciplined only our Chief and my companion Pappa. Comrade greetings." This is the second SMS that was filed and during the lawsuit was revoked. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Keletsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned SMS, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is what has been withdrawn, but if they want to, let them hear it once again. A further SMS is therefore submitted on 24 May. Mr Kalogeritsa writes to Mr Papapas: 'Maybe a mess'. Answers by Mr Papapas: 'Imports'. Hops: "Without guaranteeing how are we going? Get Summer to pressure London to send it first, because it's for the Greek government." This is about the guarantee money. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Keletsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned SMS, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, another one was tabled, where Mr Kalogritsas says: 'I am waiting for a telephone'. Grandpa: "Speaking...". It's about the closure of the appointment with Mr. Nearmenas. “... she calls you today. He asked for Cod..." - that is to say, "to see you. He says what we tell him." ‘Fourlemade’, in brackets. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Keletsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These SMSs, which have been filed with the committee and are now part of the evidence and case-file during the proceedings, have been revoked. So where's the revocation, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Mrs Jakris herself admits from the well-known minutes at the meeting that she said: "The Kalogeritsas said that "SMS will only give it to Mrs Jakris", i.e. for private use. He accepts that it is for private use. I say, if my immunity is lifted, Mr. Pappas will also bring Mrs. Jackie to testify, say all that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u42	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is obvious that this false claim on allegedly revocation was used, in the knowledge of falsehood by the messenger. And a question. If all Mr. Kalogeritsa's testimony and sms are false and fake, why did Mr. Papas not file a complaint against Mr. Kalogerica, but filed her against the president of the pre-inquiry? What was he afraid of? Who was he afraid of? As regards the dialogues with Mrs Jackson and the other speeches, there was indeed an unfortunate reference to Mrs Jackie in the intensity and exchange of sorting, but which did not concern the testimony of the witness. I said that hairdresser designation, indeed. I resuscitated him right away. She reacted. It requested that it be withdrawn and deleted from the minutes, which was immediately done. And all this, of course, is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. What does the Rules of Procedure say? To know what was implemented. In accordance with Rule 66, which applies also to committees, and paragraph 7, interactive discussions at the meeting shall be prohibited. An interruption may only be made if the speaker himself so permits and the President agrees. And paragraph 9 says in Article 66: 'If a Member takes the floor and refers to matters which are irrelevant and outside the agenda debate, or takes the floor without the permission, or continues to speak, although he was asked to conclude his speech, the President shall take the floor'. And in paragraph 10: ‘In the event of any infringement of each of the three preceding paragraphs, the President shall order that the corresponding speeches be not recorded in the minutes. If, however, the Member insists on speaking, the President shall call him to order." So what do you not understand, gentlemen of SYRIZA? That's exactly what I did. The Members who were discussing each other did not have the floor and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I said that they should not be recorded. It wasn't about the testimony of the witness Kalogerica, which was attributed to the record itself. So, was there any alterations? None of what the witness testified. Or rather now that I think about it, I have to admit that there has been a change at one point, one and the only. It was the one that on 19 May when the witness wanted to show his special relationship with Mr Pappas, he referred to matters relating to the health of the former minister. Then, following a protest by Mr Polakis, in agreement with Mr Ploris, who was the majority rapporteur, but also with the other rapporteurs, we deleted these reports. I said then: I think that unanimously we agree and say that references to personal data relating to anyone's health should not be recorded." While Kalogris said: "I said it to see what my relations with Nikos were." Of course, these reports are not included in Mr Pappa's complaint, because this alteration of the Minutes, which is indeed an interference with what the witness said, was indeed deleted. Furthermore, I would like to inform you that, on my own request, the audit and the comparison of the sound with the minutes have been requested by the committee. No one, of course, from SYRIZA, came to the comparison. The comparison was made and it was found that there was no difference, but there was no difference in the transfer of the sound to the writing. So, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of criminal assessment, no offence has been committed and, therefore, from this point of view I personally have no problem or objection to my immunity being lifted, since any charge will be swooped down on a solemn basis in any criminal court. But this is actually something else. This is a dispute in the interpretation and application of the Rules of Procedure. The messengers consider that the convergences between parliamentarians are evidence and should be recorded. I said again, this isn't evidence, but evidence is definitely anything the witness testifies to. And the witness's testimony - I repeat - has been rendered selfish, without any alteration. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the main issue that is currently of concern to us is whether Parliament, in its decision today, will refer to the way in which its Rules of Procedure are interpreted and applied - that is to say, a purely internal matter - to another authority. And I say "power" in the sense of distinguishing the powers of Article 26 of the Constitution. And where? To justice. That is what I said at the outset in our modern parliamentary history is, at the outset, an unprecedented case. According to the Professor of Constitutional Costas Chrysanos, the parliament is the only state institution that has, in accordance with Article 65(1) of the Constitution, autonomy, that is to say, regulates the way in which it is organized and operated by itself and without any other body being allowed to intervene, bound only by the Constitution. They are the so-called 'interna corporis' of the House, that is, the internals of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u44	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the other hand, I do not want to refer in detail to Articles 60 to 62 of the Constitution, which refer to the institutional guarantees of the'responsible' and'restraintless' which the Constitution gives us in the exercise of their duties, much less after the 2019 review. And I will not go into it because the conditions for committing any offence are not met. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it has become clear that the submission of this message by the former Minister of the SYRIZA, Mr Pappas, against me, served a purely political purpose entirely occasional one and I stress that possible lifting - I stress it again, I say again - is not concerned with me since I have committed no crime. And I say once again that as the chairman of the committee and as a committee we have carried out a difficult task, a sad task. But we brought it into conscientiously, objectively, with justice and success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u46	Clearly, Mr. Colleague, you finally conclude that you are against the lifting of immunity. Because you said, "in case...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I am against the lifting of immunity because here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u48	That's out. Because you said that, that's why. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The Rules of Procedure say so, and I have to ask the defendant. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor? Oh, no. So we shall proceed to the vote. The vote includes a case, the waiver of immunity of Mr Keletsi. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it out and to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials responsible may assist you. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House with which they make their votes known. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u50	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from my fellow Member, Mr Stavrou Keletsis. A total of 276 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 86 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'Notice'. They voted for 6 ‘APPROVAL’. The request of the public prosecutor was therefore not accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-06-S1-commons.u53	With the consent of the House at 13.29 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 7 October 2021, at 10.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
