ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 2a]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Accommodation of an agreement amending it from 24.6.2016 Concession Convention entitled ‘Concess of concession concerning the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the port of Piraeus’ between the Greek State and the Port Authority of Piraeus S.A."'". A request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle, on the articles and on the whole draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u2	An application has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the MPs of his party, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u3	I will not read out the list of signatories to the two above motions for roll-call votes because, given the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for them. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to add the two votes to one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u4	Therefore, after acceptance, we interrupt the sitting for ten (10') minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote in principle, on the articles and on the whole draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u6	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed, we shall proceed to the supplementary agenda for legislative work. A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect, "Kipslis" Programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, nursery and childcare stations, provisions to promote assumption and adoption, "Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons" and other provisions. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed - apart from the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, as well as the ministers - a circle of priority, which will include a speaker from each parliamentary group, as well as a twelve-member circle of speakers with a ratio of five each from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25, who will participate in the discussion in a natural presence. Likely distributed in a 12-member cycle, it will be the Members who participate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform or by physical presence. The draft law will be discussed in a single sitting on the principle, articles and amendments. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u8	The House has agreed. The rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Ljupi, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the strategic agreement between Greece and France, which is a flagrant event, a great success for the Prime Minister and the Government, is one of the top priority. It significantly strengthens the country's defence, deterrent capacity, its position in the Eastern Mediterranean, as well as solidarity and defence cooperation with friends of France. It is the beginning, perhaps, of Europe's defence cooperation. Today we are discussing an important draft law, a new, decisive step towards strengthening the net of social protection by means of provisions aimed firstly at preventing and combating the phenomenon of child abuse, secondly, at strengthening pre-school education and early intervention for infants and infants, thirdly, at supporting families with children up to two and a half years old, fourthly, at destabilising children through the strengthening of the system of admission and adoption, fifthly, at the independent living of people with disabilities, so that they can have the opportunity of equal participation in all aspects of social, economic and cultural life, a major social bill which brings innovations on Greek data. It improves the existing framework, offers solutions to chronic problems, speeds up processes, makes use of technology and digital media, incorporates European recommendations and focuses on human beings. It consists of six parts and forty-eight articles. The first part sets out for the first time a specific framework for the prevention and treatment of incidents of child abuse and neglect. Child abuse is an existing, horrifying phenomenon against which we should all be assembled. Only in the "Smile of the Child" last year were a thousand hundred twenty-three cases of abuse involving more than two thousand children were recorded. Today's bill defines the notion of child abuse, which includes all forms of physical, emotional violence, sexual abuse and general neglect or exploitation for commercial purposes. For the first time all child protection bodies have a clear obligation, in any way, to deal with a case of child abuse or neglect. The person responsible for the protection of minors shall, without delay, inform the competent prosecutors or police of any complaint. The way the complaint is made, it doesn't matter. It may be called, anonymous, written or oral. All complaints are firstly serious and receptive. The child protection officer is preferably a social worker or a psychologist. Submits complaints received by the new National System of Reporting and Monitoring of Child Policies, the first pan-Hellenic Digital Mechanism of such a kind that operates in EKK, the National Centre for Social Solidarity. The electronic recording of all incidents shall ensure that any case is investigated immediately. At the same time, we will have valuable statistics on the policies that we will implement in relation to the protection of children. Provision is made for the training of workers and volunteers in child protection bodies so that they can better recognise cases of child abuse. The objections expressed in this part by the Qualified Opposition are, in my opinion, unrealistic. The claim that the person responsible for the protection of minors may not properly promote complaints of abuse because he will be under pressure from his employer is unreasonable. In fact, children are developing a relationship of trust with them and it is easier to communicate with them. Secondly, the counter-proposal to create an external three-member committee of experts who undertakes to properly deal with complaints is far beyond malfunctioning and no substance. Apart from juvenile structures there are the most appropriate services, police authorities and juvenile prosecutors, who know very well how to manage any incident with a child victim. One of the most important initiatives in the bill is that it ensures that all workers in child protection bodies have been fully audited in relation to their criminal record. All those who work either as employees by means of work contracts or even voluntary work may not have been convicted or even subjected to criminal prosecution for offences against sexual freedom, domestic violence, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking. That is why a criminal record and a responsible statement are presented. For those who already provide work a period of six months is set, otherwise they can no longer work in such structures. This check, in fact, is repeated every year. The same conditions must be met by those who issue for the first time or modify the authorisation to set up and operate units, child protection bodies. This is how a serious gap is covered in the legislation in force. The harsh reality is that there have been incidents of child abuse within juvenile structures. And it is, in fact, worth wondering how opposition can downgrade this new strict rule, which is certain that all parents support and favour. The same protective framework for the prevention and treatment of abuse incidents is extended to all welfare providers for disabled, elderly and long-term sufferers. All new provisions and obligations must be complied with in full, otherwise the draft law imposes serious sanctions. The message of the first part of the bill is clear. No abuse of any form of child victim behavior is acceptable and remains unpunished. The second part is a real incision to pre-school education. To date infants, infants and children's facilities do not have a single specific analytical framework of operation. With the absolute freedom that exists at the moment in the way children use their time at stations, there is a great disparity between private and public stations in particular. With the new regulations, infant and child-care facilities cease to be just child-care facilities and pedagogical facilities become the development of their personality. The program "CYPSHI" contains a detailed schedule per age group with a game of all forms, cultural and other workshops, fairy tales, feeding and rest. For the first time, therefore, the development of the skills of each child is a priority, the creation of a relationship between communication and cooperation between the station and the parents. For the first time, we have compulsory, regular monitoring of infants and infants on a yearly basis for the early diagnosis of learning difficulties, disabilities or development disorders and the initiation of early intervention where necessary. The examination of children is carried out by qualified staff, while parents are informed of the results. Children's data are absolutely guaranteed after all strict personal data requirements have been complied with. Initially, the "CYPSHEL" programme is implemented pilotally and is funded by the Recovery and Resilience Fund with approximately EUR 14.5 million. A collaborative, advisory body for pre-school education and the "CYPSHILE", the National Council for Pre-school Education and Education is set up. The institution of mentors who are university scientists with a postgraduate degree and at least five years of experience in the field of preschool education is introduced. Their role is to cooperate with the staff of the stations and to contribute to its training in the pilot implementation of the "CYPSHI". Details of the implementation of the new pre-school education planning shall be referred, as reasonably plausible, to joint ministerial decisions specifying precisely all issues arising. Here too, criticism has been made, although it would be inappropriate to include the entire education programme in a bill which, after the pilot phase, is likely to be improved and modified. The third part of the bill contains new interventions to become more operational, effective and rapid the system of acceptance and adoption in Greece. At the initiative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the very successful online matching of children living in structures with their prospective parents is already being implemented. This is a modern, reliable and transparent system that brings us closer to the commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to find a family for every child. The conclusions from the first operation of the new digital combination are very encouraging. The "Smile of the Child" at the stage of the committees acknowledged that the new process is developing positively and children are restored to families. It is the confirmation of the successful Minister for Labour's initiative in speeding up assumptions and adoptions. With today’s bill further interventions are being made so that more people who wish to be able to become foster parents. Procedures are accelerated by introducing specific registers of approved juveniles, children who have never been hosted to institutions but enter the reception system directly from the hospital. The age limits of candidates who can now be between twenty-five and seventy-five years old and have an age difference from the recipient eighteen to sixty years are widened. In this way we attract older people who have raised their children, but feel the need to offer love to other children. Already in many countries like Great Britain there are no age limits at all, considering that the relevant social service will ultimately judge the candidate's physical and general capacity to fulfil its role. Precisely in favour of abolishing, not just extending age limits for admission, the Citizens' Counsel has also been set up. Therefore, any reactions from the standpoint of opposition on this point are, in my opinion, far and unjustified. The assumption process shall be streamlined so that the competent services responsible for supervision are located in the regional unit with the contractors. The credibility and scope of the social advisor who supervises the privileged structures shall be strengthened and specified. In the fourth part of the draft law, an innovative action on Greek data is being implemented, which is a universal demand for the disabled movement in the last two decades. For the first time in Greece, the service of the "Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons" is established. The aim of the new institution is to support disabled people so that they can live as independently as possible within the community and outside institutions. At the same time, there is a significant facility for families with AME members who have until now either spent a lot of personal time caring for their people who need them or hire staff. The ‘Personal Assistant’ supports disabled people in their daily personalised needs. Beneficiaries of the service shall be all persons with disabilities irrespective of disability category and living conditions. without losing any privileges they already receive through OPECA. Initially since 2022, the service has been provided pilotically to two thousand disabled people, focusing on social and income criteria to ensure that those most in need are given the most. For the pilot implementation of the Personnel Assistant, 42.2m euros have been provided by the Recovery and Resilience Fund. The service shall be provided either directly or through a third party provider. Therefore, there is no justification for the fearful reaction of counter-population to third-party providers since each disabled person can choose his/her staff assistant directly. From the fifth part of the bill, it is clear that the radical arrangement allows semi-autonomous living for adolescents over fifteen years who live in institutions. These are older children for whom the chances of adoption and assumption are removed. Therefore, children in the context of a clear attempt to dismantle are allowed to reside in rented homes. But all material and psychosocial support will be provided to them. The aim is to launch a smooth and progressive transition of their removal from the institution and entry into society, while being guided by their interconnection with the labour market. Of course, neither their education nor the possibility of entering higher education is disturbed. And this EUR 8 million programme is from the Recovery Fund. The National Centre for Social Solidarity assumes the role of the national coordinator of the guarantee for children based on the Council of Europe Recommendation 1004. Greece is one of the countries selected to implement this great European effort to combat social exclusion, discrimination and stigmatisation in children. This is how all children have access to quality education, healthy nutrition, care, housing. Support for the Greek family and the working mother is even more evident with the new large funding programme for the creation of fifty thousand new jobs at stations worth 180 million euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. Amendment No 1088 introduces the 'Neighbourhood Danades' action by offering an important breath and valuable support to the family. For the first time, state assistance for home care for infants and infants from two to two and a half years is ensured by accredited operators. This new provision is given as an alternative that operates alongside day-to-day stations. The curator shall check their health and criminal records. It is a positive social benefit that supports the family and especially the working mother. Also important as a symbolic act is the provision of a signal different to public and private enterprises as a reward because they promote equal treatment and equal opportunities in the workplace against discrimination of all kinds. In conclusion, I think that there has not been a single week since we debate this bill in the committee responsible that the Qualifying Opposition did not characterize today's piece of legislation as an empty shirt. Unfortunately, such statements simply show that there is no serious opposition reason when the major social sectors are being distorted today. We have a piece of legislation that focuses on the needs of vulnerable groups, supports the Greek family and ensures the elimination of child abuse, a bill that seeks to reduce social inequalities by means of acts not by words, with actions costed, mobilising funds from Union and national amounting to more than half a billion euros, mainly placing at the heart of the debate the social groups themselves, people with disabilities, children and families, which we owe as a state and as a society to support. The government once again applies its election programme for social justice and equality. For all these reasons, I call on all political groups to support today's legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u10	And we thank Mr. Lippe. The SYRIZA rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Mrs Theanoo Fotio, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill deals with issues involving hundreds of thousands of children, elderly and disabled and their families. It is the child abuse officer, the programme for the pre-school education of children of zero to four years of age, the "personal assistant" of the disabled, the assumption and adoption and disincorporation. They are major social issues that could be a separate bill, which would have emerged in a wide-ranging social and scientific dialogue, with analysis and recording of the Greek reality, with knowledge and respect for the human potential that these projects are called upon to carry out, with consensus and, of course, with very brave and strong funding. None of this is happening. This is a legislative firework of communication feasibility, structured with ambiguity, genericity and manipulation, with wrong and harmful choices, and with inappropriate application. Apart from that, however, we have new originals of the state of staff. The new institutions that are introduced are not legislated but are referred to pilot projects that we know nothing about, because they will still be designed by joint ministerial decisions. That is, in our case, does not specify the rules for the application of a law. This bill does not legislate in Parliament, but in Ministers with a CFO. This is the case for both institutions that will be financed by the Retrievation Fund under the "BYSH" Pre-school education programme and the "Personal assistant" of the disabled. In other words, you ask for a white check from the House to manage the recovery fund's money with the people in the name of children, the elderly, the disabled. We won't give it to you. Firstly, the "CYPSHEL" pre-school education programme concerns three hundred and sixty thousand children from zero to four years old. That's all the kids we've got at that age. Of these two hundred and twenty thousand children - we say, but tell us how much they are - they are today in infants, of whom seven thousand of them, that is about half, are hosted free of charge. It's what they get voucher. It's a ghost program. Because the bill does not contain a single summary of it, and the report states that it will be shaped in the future. But the ghost exists and is made up of a hundred pages. He was posted in July at Paidi.gov.gr for public consultation. He's had a great deal of criticism. The consultation has ended, and we have not been aware of his fate since then. The project was rejected by all relevant bodies because: Firstly, it introduces a single content and timetable for all children between zero and four years per age category. But this is scientifically perforated, because the development stage of each child is unique. It doesn't necessarily coincide with that of his peers. That is why we need flexibility and principle frameworks, not horizontal compulsory pedagogical content and timetables per age, which are harmful. The horizontal programme does not recognize the great geographical peculiarities and peculiarities of our country. Others are children in urban centres, rural areas, islands and mountainous mountainous areas with different experiences and cultural peculiarities. We cannot have a single programme. Different programmes are required. Secondly, the program "BYSYLI" is a program without vision and philosophy foreign to Greek reality. It is a perforated symphony of foreign programs since the 1970s for developing and non-member countries that is not based on Greek data, our values of cultural, etc. This is a programme collogue with the reach up and learning designed first for the developing countries of Bangladesh, Jamaica, India, Colombia or the voluntary homestart or the private initiative superstart or the "Neighbourhood dads" that were applied at home - take care - not in structures for parents. The 'Cypriot' programme, thirdly, is neither new nor innovative. He finds out the kid learns by playing. Discovers the value of the diet against obesity. The irony of this fate for the New Democracy, which characterized the free Mediterranean school streams of SYRIZA aggregations. These school meals you received in 2019 in a hundred and eighty - five thousand days a day, you froze them two years from this year and by 2024 you will give two hundred thousand a day. That's what you've done. While we had a schedule for six hundred thousand daily meals, all primary children. Fourthly, the annual assessment of the mental, learning and psychosocial state of infants and infants and its recording in a special file of each child and in digital form - you have made it, but 100 times that we ask you do not answer us - can be followed by the child in his social and professional life. So imagine they're telling you that you're late to walk, 'you're late to talk 'cause they're gonna be in the files. We're against the digital engraving of infants and infants. Fifthly, the "BYSHILE" programme does not take into account any new developments in neuroscience or programmes that have existed for years at the Institute of Education or new teaching methods, such as experiential communication. Mostly it does not take into account the Greek reality, our values, our own principles, our own cultural and geographical peculiarities. Sixthly, we are in favour of early early and valid diagnosis of difficulties and development problems of infants and infants. We ask that you apply it directly to all nursery stations and do not connect it to the implementation of the "CYSLEI". Seventh, the pilot project "BYSHEL" will spend 14 million from the Recovery Fund for the years 2021-2024. Is that money what they're covering? The rapporteur clearly says what we'll pay out of the 14.5 million dollars. Firstly, the creation of the programme. In other words, the 'BYCHEL' programme does not exist or exist and it is what the 'DIANEOSIS' - arm of IOBE and BSE - supposedly free of charge, and now it will finally be a way of getting paid. Secondly, the reproduction of programme material and material for activities. We are talking about toolkits which will be produced and distributed in all structures. We don't know either from which manufacturer or from what remuneration. New party of private providers! Thirdly, the remuneration of the mentors with whom all specialists and the specific training of staff disagreed. Fourthly, the provision of tests to evaluate the mental, learning and psychosocial situation of children. We realized it's an outdated 1940 test. Let them tell us what it is at last! The State Secretary said something the other day. Fifthly and finally, the evaluation of the programme. We demand that you withdraw Part II of the bill as all the relevant bodies in the consultation of the institutions, the children's classes of three universities - Western Greece, Ioannina, International University of Greece - and those who will be invited to implement the programme, that is, the nurses, because they considered it contrary to the interests of children, harmful, unrelated to the Greek reality and the other. Look at the Minutes. A great debate needs to be opened in which we will all be involved for the future of our children. And it was not enough for this inadequate, unsatisfactory, sketchy and destructive programme in the end of the "BYCHEL" bill for children 0 to 4, that we announced the day before yesterday and you put an amendment to the dawn today - because the whole bill is - presented to us by the Deputy Minister of Family and Demographic Policy at the "Dadads of Neighbourhood". The ‘Neighbourhood dads’ appear as a programme complementing the ‘CYCLES’. In fact, it is about undermining the logic of pre-school education at organised nurseries, by entrusting pre-school treatment for infants up to two and a half years to persons of unspecified qualifications chosen by unknown state organs, to host these persons or the child's home, that is to say, in an area that has no specification, two and a half years' time today in pandemic conditions. In other words, there will simply be two-speed infants in the "Neighbourhood dads" that will cost cheaper in the state and those in the most expensive infants. There are 180 million from the Recovery Fund to create infant structures for fifty thousand children at the cost of each 3,600 euros. We, however, in 2018, proclaimed tens of thousands of places at municipal infantry stations of 15 million from the state budget at a cost per seat of 1,500 euros. Suddenly within three years, things were very questionable. Looks like it's more than twice as much. If you kept the cost we had, then with 180 million you would create a hundred and twenty thousand new jobs for infants and infants and overcover the "Dadads" programme and its need. You don't. You have other purposes. We'll see you again. The big problem for society is to double vouchers, that is to give free hospitality for all children. We got it from seventy thousand in 2015 and reached a hundred fifty-five thousand voucher in 2019. That's where you left them and raised that number a little and left eighty-three kids out this year. In addition, however, the State Secretary told us that the "Neighbourhood dads" will not fully cover the unemployed mothers, but only a few hours a week to go looking for a job. We are now clearly afraid, because Pissaridis says so too, that you will bring back what was in force until 2014 from New Democracy because you are not new. It was you who ruled by 2015. In 2014, you excluded all unemployed mothers from voucher, which we abolished in 2015. We're afraid you'll bring it back. It's a class extreme choice. Secondly, with regard to the "Personal Assistant" for disabled people, we should make it clear from the outset that we are in favour of the institution of the "Personal Assistant" of the disabled. It has included it in our programming positions and Alexis Tsipras announced it in February 2021. But again this long-awaited institution has not legislated it and you are underfinanced. There are no conditions in the bill for universal application, not even the main points and elements of the institution. It was also pointed out in its memorandum to the Committee of the European Parliament and Mr Vardakastanis. What's it spread? That there will be a pilot program for a thousand people in 2022, another thousand in 2023 to 2024 to 42.2 million from the Recovery Fund, which will be determined after evaluation of what will be and what will be provided for then the institution of the "Personal Assistant" of the disabled person who will not start his universal application until 2025. But again with CFDs that will be issued, as the report says, and not with law, the features of the overall implementation of the pilot project are set out. We therefore do not know, at the moment, who will show the beneficiaries of the pilot, who will determine who will be made up of the scientific committees for the crisis of the candidates, what amount the beneficiaries will get in the month, how they will be chosen and how personal assistants will be trained. In short, we don't know anything. The disabled know nothing about the new institution. And who is true the third provider through which the disabled can receive a personal assistant? You will, in fact, extend here to the disabled the well-known doomed platforms of "e-FOOD". Undersecretary of State Michailidou said that for universal application after 2025 the government would put 300 million a year. All right, let's say you're still going to be, then, and you, make two accounts, Mr. Hatzidakis, you're here, based on the 42.2 million Recovery Fund, and the two thousand people you put in the pilot measure, comes the annual cost disabled. If you divide the 400 million that the Undersecretary told us at this annual cost, then you'll find that it's about 300,000 disabled. There's a very small number of 30.5 thousand disabled today who's over a million. Do you realize how deceived, frustrated and mentally oppressed the disabled will feel, who believe that they will solve the problem of their autonomy and its integration into society by the application of this institution? This problem, from what we are allowed to understand, is - as you can see - extremely incomplete legislation. It's unacceptably poorly designed. It is clear that you have prepared it for communication purposes by mocking the disabled and without distinction to their anxiety and expectations for an autonomous, equal and full participation in the social process. We, on the other hand, have already worked together with many organisations and representatives of the disabled movement for a sustainable, effective proposal for the 'Personal assistant' of the disabled person who will give her a broad consultation. Thirdly, the institution of the child abuse officer, but also of the elderly, long-term suffering and disabled people living in open and closed care structures is about thousands of structures, hundreds of thousands of people. We asked you if you know how many you institutionalize. For twenty, two, or two thousand? No answer. You are creating in the wrong way and this institution, and it is inappropriate as all the representatives of the government have told you, the Regional Governor, Mr Patolis, or the representative of the CEDEFOP, because there are no social consultants who will control those responsible for the structures. But it is also wrong the way in which the abused person is designated. It shall be defined by the Head or the Head of Structure by the staff of the structure. However, a staff member will be under great pressure when he or she denounces misconduct by colleagues or chief of staff. That is why we propose that this task be delegated to an external group by a psychologist, a social worker and a legal officer, to be entrusted with a number of structures, for example ten and gather the names and anonymous complaints of abuse, having frequent contact with the beneficiaries of these structures of workers and of course children. However, because you do not intend to spend 1 euro - because this is the whole story that unlocks everything's interpretations - for this new institution, deny our proposals, and you do not take central responsibility for even the training of thousands of people responsible for abuse. You assign it to every structure without control. The penalties for violations are inadequate and pretextful. We are concerned that you want to create a reporting register in the EKKA, while already operating a comprehensive child abuse register at the Child's Health Institute. The EKRD, with its high scientific potential, will be entrusted with the role of coordinator of the European guarantee for the child, needs support with new permanent scientific staff to be able to fulfil this role. Finally, prevention is confined to extending the control of criminal records and criminal offences and to those involved in blockages, contract workers and volunteers, since it has been the case for all other workers to date. So we're asking. Does this arrangement conceal the fact that you will be allowing the protection structures of external companies to be "loaned"? That is not how prevention is safeguarded. We suggest every candidate worker passes through a structured interview to a team of experts. Initiation, adoption and promotion of decoupling. They are, in particular, only two amendments to SYRIZA's flag law, Law 4538/2018. In one case you allow people aged seventy-five years to become adolescents 15 years old and we are not talking about a relative assumption, that is to say, which clearly allows it the current framework, that is, grandmas should take over their grandchildren, as we have seen recently in the tragic cases of genocide. This is a four-year foreign person who takes over an adolescent who usually comes from a founding or malicious environment with difficult management behaviour. We disagree vertically anyway. The second case is that where a man or woman has a child of his own and then marries or makes a cohabitation agreement, you do not want to be trained, while becoming a contractor or adopts his child. As far as decoupling is concerned, 8 million are available for the creation of semi-autonomous housing, Article 40, always after 2022, from the Recovery Fund. We are in favour of decoupling, but we have said again and again, the juveniles of the institutions must live there protected and go to school, not go to work. They need to continue their psychosocial support and training in order to prepare for...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u12	But finish, Mrs. Fotio. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u13	I'll be out in a minute. That's not how you're helping dehabilizing. We left you a hundred and sixty shelters of supportive living that we had included in the ESDP in the different regions with 51 million. You've frozen them for two years now. You combined this child's disability allowance with the admission allowance, thus cutting the child's income by 40%, that is, from EUR 1.202 you went to EUR 737.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u14	Close, Mrs. Fotio. That's what Parliament's control is all about. It's not in the bill, please warmly. I've given too much tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u15	I'm done. I'll say a sentence. With fireworks of a communication character, you're implicating children, the disabled and the elderly. Unfortunately, the treasure of the government's emblematic bill. We are voting against the bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. The reason is now the special speaker of the Movement of Change Mr. George Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the bill, I would like to say that we are witnessing a peculiar government legislative initiative. It is this legislative initiative that is being taken alone. I shall turn to my colleague, Mr Lippe, the majority rapporteur. We've been in committee for so many days. Do you, Mr Ljupe, know about Amendment No 16, which was tabled last night at 23.20 hours, and which regulates important issues of the OAED and many other issues? Why didn't the Ministry bring her to the committee to process her, discuss and see what's going on? Was it a last-minute amendment, or did you bring it to us for the last minute? I don't get it. At 22.50 a new amendment again from the Ministry. Since when did the State Secretary tell the committee that you would bring an amendment? We talked in writing, the debate is over - you remember very well - and that is where Mrs. Secretaries got the floor and what she did? He was analyzing the bill. And when will the amendment come? In a minute. Everyone asked it from the Opposition last night. However, while the House did not know at all, neither the Members of Parliament nor the committee nor any processing, the communication has played, it has also been discussed with various social media. He was discussed yesterday by the Minister with the Vice-President of the European Commission. House nothing. Is that a way to make a legacy? Should these at some point be changed, should we have another logic? He's not honoring us. And I say it as a lawyer, and I say it as a citizen I have been following the procedure for so many years outside. That's not an honor, though. By the way, I'll say one more thing. It concludes the programme, Minister, for cooperation I think today. Is something coming? Is it going to continue? It won't go on? We have not seen any amendments. Of the twenty-eight, thirty articles you brought, nothing has come to date, although cooperation is now ending. On the bill, if we must, ladies and gentlemen, describe and say the draft legislation in question, it will only be said that this is a very clearly emblematic legislative initiative, as are all the other initiatives taken by the Mitsotakis Government so far for social protection in particular. They are initiatives that are far from paradoxical in terms of size, available resources and the approach of the welfare state that the citizens want and we are also calling for as a Change Movement. For us, there is a national social protection system that is a development factor and a guarantor of the fundamental rights of citizens, while at the same time meeting the international standards of human rights and the rights of individual social groups, such as children, such as women, migrants, SMEs. A national social protection system which requires the guarantee of social justice is of a holistic nature and provides universal services. And, of course, in Greece of 2021 this can be achieved by a social surplus clause in all the projects and all the axes of the Recovery Fund, both in terms of employment of vulnerable social groups in the projects and in ensuring funds for social infrastructure projects to each contractor. The New Democracy is deaf in our proposals, because we are of the opinion that it is dealing with social policy as a burden of the economy and choosing the communication policy that I have said before at the expense of integrated reforms. In particular on the articles and on the draft law, we consider that it also introduces positive provisions on the one hand. It introduces provisions for important institutions in our country's legal order. On the other hand, however, there are serious gaps in the proposed provisions on the financing of legislative measures. These gaps cause a great deal of questions, and that is why we are showing them. In particular, the provisions of Part One, from Articles 1 to 12, which concern the creation of a mechanism for preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect, first of all, we say that they are positive. However, Minister, we again point out that the protection of minority and the fight against abuse must be integrated into a socially comprehensive policy of family protection, as it is directly linked to the problem of demographics. You guys ignore it at all. This is not only a political issue but also a national issue, for which long-term and not spastic policies must be established, which will of course be defined through a national dialogue and, of course, with cross-party consensus. Although the national committee on demographics set up at the initiative of Ms Gennimata, the President of the Change Movement, has come up with a multi-page study to deal with demographics, this study has still not been exploited. We are therefore waiting for government initiatives in this direction to see what it says. We ask ourselves, Mr Minister, what measures you are introducing to deal with child abuse, will you extend them to the Roma camps too, will you extend them to the closed structures of migrants? In the direction of protecting Greekity, it will be explored and strengthened - how do you see it - the institution of the Prosecutor of Minors? And the second part, in order to place the patronage that you are very advertising, is allegedly required, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt five joint ministerial decisions. These articles on "CYPHEL" say nothing about what the CYPHS predicted, because CYS is the substance and core of "CYPHELIS". It's not the articles. The articles are just descriptions. And I ask, will this legislature be irrelevant to what the joint ministerial decision will say? So, we're gonna accept this thing and this way of legislating? That's why we're saying it's a bad piece of legislation. Bad legislation in a bad state at the end. What else can we say? We shall be asking ourselves, by way of eloquence, to say a word of criticism. Can we say something else? What can we say in contrast to Chapter Fourth? It is neither defined when nor how the pilot project will begin. Nor will this be generalized to all other stations. We are not saying this programme and you are asking us to vote on it. We have also told the committees since the first day - since the first reading, we have not given a white cheque. We can't give because you don't say anything about it. And if you say, tell us, what do you say? And if that's what you say, why do you want the NSAs? It is not, therefore, defined with five CIFs, that we give a white check, when and at the end of the day, you have not taken samples. What can we say? Can we say about the way the workers are dealing with more generally than the government's legislative initiative? What can we say? Let's just say that the workers' right was collapsed overnight? Was it institutionalized against overtime? Can we talk about the ten-hour daily work? What else can we say here? In the CIA, the first student in law knows it, and I said it beforehand, what needs to be defined and not defined, so the core mentioned here is exclusively the responsibility and initiative of the House. When will the MCAs be issued? Nobody knows. And if they are issued, when will their application begin? Nobody knows, too. It's completely unknown, and we want to vote, right? Would we like, Minister, to inform us, in any case, that there is a timetable and if it has been drawn up, so that we know it? And, of course, if there is a timetable, will it be binding on implementation or will it be indicative of implementation? These issues are raised in the legislation. We have asked the committees on several occasions and so far we have not received any response. Furthermore, Minister, we would like you to clarify where the funding of the programme comes from, as mentioned in the Committee on Social Affairs. The special report mentions EUR 600,000 for pilot implementation. We want this House to be informed today what the cost of the normal programme is and what it is burdened with. Let's find out today. Also, why does it not refer to any cost in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State? In the third part of Articles 22 to 31, which are the provisions, for example, to extend age limits, these are considered positive in the first place. Besides, the Citizens' Counsel had proposed abolishing the age limits of Law 4538/2018. It is, however, hypocritical to exclude someone who is sixty-five or seventy years from that right and, at the same time, to agree that we have the vision of a society for everyone, where all independent of age, sex, origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation and who are actively involved in their communities. However, questions are asked here too. Are the amendments to the institution of assumption and adoption sufficient, Minister, to reduce the bureaucracy and delays that we see in their implementation? Are you planning as a government to take steps to supervise institutions in which children are accommodated? When do you intend to strengthen their poor still unsuccessful oversight, but when too many legal procedural obstacles are involved, as well as great delays, which we know about in managing applications and taking on and adopting them. I shall refer to the programme and institution referred to by the Personnel Assistant for Disabled Persons. In principle, the Change Movement agrees. We have, however, pointed out to you in committee all days and there is no position on the head of the Ministry. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And you ask: is it the budget that defines the General Accounting Office of the State? In other words, the years 2022 to 2024 from the implementation of this pilot application of the "Personal Assistant" service within the selected sections of the country. This expenditure is estimated at around EUR 42,2 million. What do they mean for three years? They mean that a maximum of two thousand people will join. Of how many in a total of 1 million? Really, what's going on here, Minister? We asked and didn't get an answer. That number I told you how you see it? Is the number covered by this amount sufficient? For the allowances of absolute invalidity received today by pensioners due to disability and pensioners due to old-age blind, by EVKA, have the Ministry been asked all these days, will they continue to receive or be replaced by this new service? The provision, ladies and gentlemen, protects the allowances definitely granted by the OPEKA, does not protect the allowances granted by the OPEKA. Clearly. If it protects, you have to tell us. Mrs Michailidou, in her speech on Friday, did not clarify it even though it was provoked. In our view, it needs to be added to Article 34 ‘and the allowances to the SMEs granted by the ECA’. Otherwise it's a deficit, otherwise there's a problem. Also, the five, six C.E.S. I said earlier predict what? First, the contents of the service of the ‘Personal assistant’. Secondly, the number of beneficiaries of the service of the ‘personnel assistant’. Thirdly, the working conditions and staff insurance. Questions: How, under which criteria and by whom will the providers of this service be certified and when I say service providers I mean companies, I mean natural persons. We don't know, because it doesn't show up who they are and how they are. Will rent workers be created to be employed as a disabled assistant? No answer for so many days in committee. The terms of employment and insurance of the ‘Personal assistant’ and other details, as you can see, are not provided. They're going to be set up. That's the legacy that exists. I ask these details to go with 39 to the CIA, or it is substantial predictions that we should have known today, that the committee was working on them, and today we should have discussed and decided. I conclude with the provision concerning the creation of up to fifty thousand jobs in infants at existing and new stations throughout the territory. Is the fifty thousand seats enough to have universal coverage? We have also said so in committee, because for us, Minister, it is clear that it is a matter of ensuring a central objective that he says. No child out of the juvenile station. If you agree, we're here. But if you disagree with the way you speak and legislate, why don't you bring anything else to do? Of course, we support any measure that leads closer to this objective, but at some point the government must tell us whether there are gaps throughout this structure and whether there are gaps in how many gaps there are? We do not know this, but we believe that it is incomprehensible that the government should not know it. And since there are gaps that you will tell us how much they are, we would also like you to tell us if there is a timetable for these gaps to be covered. Finally, the amendment which came just before 12 noon on the Neighbourhood dads, which the State Secretary of State told us since Monday, is an amendment of seven articles and eleven pages that the Ministry's leadership - I say - advertised on the channels, but disregarded or ignored the House and the Members and the Committee on Social Affairs and tabled at midnight. It is a classic example of avoidance - I repeat - the way you legislate and I think there is a lack of respect for democratic processes. More has been discussed in the philosophical press and not at all in the House. We therefore consider that the term 'tadas' is obsolete, is a obsolete term, is anachronistic, is deeply sexistic - we call it - and, of course, corresponds to an insufficient and clearly communication need. We represent as a Movement of Change the policy of domestic support for childcare in the models of the "Help at Home" program, but with responsibility for and coordination from the local government that you are fully ignoring it. Already in all the programs, the Change Movement, PASOK, we have provided innovative programs for child care at home: First, with the funding and scientific support of OTAs to create a register of certified professionals and parent cooperatives. Secondly, with priority for women unemployed. Thirdly, with the participation of the unemployed, especially older or single parents in the context of social work. Minister, before I go any further, I would like to say to the House about the amendments that we have proposed, some issues, because we have taken note of the amendment on the OAED and other provisions. In Article 12, which refers to food and tourism, there are three issues which I would like you to take into account and I will tell you now: it does not describe in the amendment what will happen with the workers who have made a unilateral request to suspend the contract this year in May and June and then did not work. Will they have assembled the required number of bearers, fifty, but will they not be able to apply to the OAS for the subsidy after 60 days have elapsed? This is a matter of time. Look at it. We also fear that, once again, for seasonal workers in feeding, tourism and food production who have not been able to find a job, the amendment does not provide for anything, unless it is not clear. And we would finally like you to make it clear as a ministry for those who first come out to the Unemployment Fund if it is about a hundred times up, and if so, it is a question on which there is surely a weakness, Minister - you will understand that - where these hundred times will be found. These are the issues for Article 12 for the specific amendment you have proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a goal and have repeatedly said that any initiative taken or criticism has the meaning only of constructive criticism and of contributing to something coming out of this whole process. We are making a constructive opposition and we are proving it in every way. In the draft law, therefore, we have tabled six specific amendments: First Amendment, we call for the full disconnection of work or disability pensions from the OPEKA allowance. The current legislation - we have stressed this - provides for the interruption of an allowance granted to disabled persons by the OPEK if they work or retire. The interruption of this allowance, which is given to cover the additional costs of disability-related needs, creates many serious problems in the decent living of disabled people and their families, taking into account the lack of state support structures. We call for this amendment to be accepted. The second amendment concerns the inclusion of people with mental disabilities and persons with a certified disability over sixty-five years of age in the service of the assistant. You can join it. You can accept it. Third amendment. We are asking for the participation of PAOKEA in the National Council for Primary Education and Education provided for in Article 16 of the Bill. We have pointed this out at a previous committee meeting. She didn't commit, she didn't say anything to the State Secretary. Minister, we ask you, we analyse it, we report it to you. Fourth amendment. There should be an extension of the term of office of the Administrative Councils of the primary and secondary members of the organisations of the members of the ESDC. There's a matter of this. You have already been requested by 31-7-2022. The fifth amendment refers to the provision of funding during the period of universal application of the disabled person's ‘personnel assistant’ service. No provision is made for financing. We are asking for funding to be guaranteed. This is because, while Article 38 of the draft law introduces the universal application of the "Personnel Assistant" service for disabled persons, the method of financing is not provided for, Minister. We don't know him. We don't see him. It's not predictable. It is therefore necessary to reintroduce the provision contained in the draft law, in the text of the preliminary draft, which has been put into public consultation the OpenGov.gr platform and provided for the financing. As he came here to the House, he doesn't. So why would the plan at OpenGov.gr be anticipated and not now predicted for coming to Parliament? And with the sixth amendment, we are calling for the consultation of the disabled movement prior to the adoption of these MSUs I mentioned earlier - the five or six MSUs - provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u18	Finish, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u19	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the issues of the bill are extremely important and are at the core of the welfare state. They are directly concerned by millions of citizens and their families and indirectly, of course, they concern the Greek society and its functioning and cohesion. Strengthening the social state, strengthening the welfare state for us is at the heart of our concern, since investment in that state is for us levers of economic development, social solidarity and cohesion. Of course, social policy needs money as well as money, as well as investment, investment, economics, but also human resources through adequate and integrated institutions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u20	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u21	With pilot programmes, however, and with little use of resources from the Recovery Fund, the social policy established by the New Democracy is, in our view, only a declaration of good intention. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for us on the Change Movement, there are strong reservations about the reality of the issues that it raises, despite the major issues and the importance of this legislation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 299 Members voted on the principle. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. In other words, 141 Members voted against the principle. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. A total of 299 Members voted on this article. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. The first article was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 299 Members voted on the agenda. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. A total of 299 Members voted. In favour of the whole, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the whole, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority of the majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u24	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Accommodation of an amendment agreement of 24.6.2016 to the Concession Convention entitled ‘Concess of Concession on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the Port of Piraeus’ between the Greek State and the Port Authority of Piraeus SA’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u25	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u26	The House has given the mandate requested. We return to the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and call on the Special Speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u27	Minister, what's going on there with the government? On the one hand, you watch fascist Nazi groups turning to their schools and, on the other, there at the Ministry of Education seems to have lost every measure anymore. Because they cannot dig up there in the Ministry of Education that there are thousands of teachers who, through collective democratic processes, resist your reactionary plans for multi-speed schools, where, of course, parents will put even deeper hands in their pockets and pay even more, what are they doing? They resort to your law, Mr. Hatzidakis, whom they exploit. A few hours ago, urgent proceedings were filed, which will be dealt with very soon, against the educational federations, the ILO and OLEME. Let's say it open. This is another authoritarian offense of the government. A catastrophic, though, showing her panic and nothing else. We call on the government to withdraw the action from the courts right now before it is tried. Because, in the end - and you know it or you should know - your authoritarianism is not going to pass and it will turn you back boomerang. Let's go to the bill. He doesn't miss the nice titles. On the contrary. ‘Prevention’, ‘tackling abuse and neglect’, ‘upgrading infant and child-care facilities’, ‘promotion of adoption’, ‘application of staff for disabled persons’. Who can disagree with all this? Who? But the problem with the bill, you know, is not his titles, but his content, as we will show below. First, however, we want to clarify the position of our party on these social issues, which, of course, is based on the deep humanist, socio-political perception that we have, in our genuine class solidarity with all our families, from the poor populaces that have children in pre-school age or people with disabilities, and of course, on the deep class solidarity that we have for those children who are without family, those tortured children who experience abuse or neglect. As a JRC, we say: on all these basic issues of social protection, the State must have and should have full and exclusive responsibility to meet the current needs of all families, without exception, to health, welfare, education, education, sport, culture, recreation, everywhere. So the state itself must take responsibility for raising the child, for caring for the disabled member of a family, for protecting the child without a family, of course by providing all the necessary, free, infrastructure and services. This position of the JRC on the exclusive responsibility of the State for child protection and education, for the full support of disabled people, is also the great separatist line separating the JRC from all other parties, which deny full state responsibility. And the parents will say, what role will they have? But, the most decisive, the most valuable. With their love, with their daily care, they will make a decisive contribution to the emotional development of their children, but - beware - this psycho-corruption of survival and without all those inequality, exclusion and deprivation caused to their children by social, class inequalities. Unfortunately, however, we are living in capitalism and all these basics are regarded as an individual case. The disabled member of a family is considered the responsibility of the family, especially the parents, the child is regarded as an estate, even parents' absolute, and therefore the case of his rearing is an individual parental case. And so there are thousands of children around us who live in poverty, who are not properly fed, who do not have sufficient heating in winter, who can't make a week of holidays. One in four children in our country, according to UNICEF, live this way. There are many other children who are deprived of day care, many disabled people who are out of special treatment services effectively excluded from the necessary treatment and rehabilitation services. That concludes, that is the end of capitalism's logic of individual responsibility. In these contexts, however, you also know some more extreme phenomena. It is shocking and many more of the incidents that are being made public regarding child abuse, the incidents of extreme neglect and abandonment of young children in infant trafficking and much more. Of course, all these morbid phenomena are not random. They increase and appear more and more frequently because of a number of factors. You see when a system rots and the sepsis of capitalism is no longer hidden, then the pathogens are multiplied in families. Intensified domestic violence, including atrocious sexual abuse to children, drug addiction, mental illness and so many others, is intensified. Now go ahead and deal with all this with a bill like this. How much more so when the European Union's strategy on social protection, but also the measures taken by all the urban governments so far, like the New Democracy, are the causes that give rise to these phenomena, not only do they mitigate them, but they are exacerbating them. Isn't your policy racing the lives of the people's families? What do you think? That it improves it? Poverty, you know, the unemployment that is spreading, the cultural inequalities, the absence of disability prevention, the privatisation of child protection services and so many others you know do not fall out of the sky. Your policy creates them. And now you come with the bills and bills like today, go pour some oil into the wounds of society that your policy opens. But together with the oil, you add to these wounds and plenty of salt. "BYCLE" programme, then. Let's see it: Baby Station Upgrade," he says. But what is it about you, what is it about the European Union, in general terms, about urban perception, pre-school education? First and foremost, it is a matter of facilitating women's work, the mother's fundamentally, as the European Union says, is a question of harmonising family and working life. What is preschool lawsuit for us? First and foremost, a basic inalienable right of every child to his treatment, education, socialization and then all the rest. Do you think that's a small difference? Not at all. So it explains why you see it, basically, as a childcare and therefore, because you have not cared for your state for a structured, unified scientific pedagogical program - for this part of pre-school education and care - so it is also explained why all of you are dealing with pre-school treatment and as a business field at the expense of the pocket, of course, of the parents. This explains why half of preschool children are not currently in nursery and childcare facilities. The amendment that came last night on the notorious nannies of the neighborhood - on a television sirial brings me this, but, anyway - just confirms that this long and long lack of state structures of pre-school education will continue. But, Minister, it is also explained why the JRC insists on the state's exclusive responsibility to develop and operate in every neighbourhood and for all children's high-level child care services in accordance with the standards and conquests of educational science. Finally, with a delay of some decades - we will say, of course, rather late than never - bring the 'Cypsychide' programme into the bill and is even invited to Parliament and its authors to play it. They did, of course. Who are these editors? A BSE tank of thought, which with a technocratic team of economists, completely foreign to the Greek reality and daily life of Greek children's stations, seeks, in essence, to synchronize the economic priorities and working hours of parents who are increasingly bored - something you know about it, Mr Hatzidakis - with the operation of children's stations. So a programme that has already been in place since the 1970s is still in Jamaica and some other developing countries, is making it up and displaying it as a modern one. Scared of her! In the meantime, the teachers of three university departments and the association of nurses have a great deal of objections to this "BYSHEL" programme. Now, of course, you will also tell me some correct wordings, some of them in this programme, such as the reduction in the proportion of children's/education, the courtyards, the game, sleep, scientific intervention, etc. But you know that requires increased funding for which the programme's authors do not write a single word. The Minister isn't here. The relevant Minister, Mrs Michailidou, said in committee all days that it was not spent in the state budget. So we're asking again. Is it so bad for the state to give money, money from people's taxation, for their children's schools and for all their social services and needs? Looks like it's for you. However, it is not bad, Minister, to share hundreds of millions of euros from the state fund with the large airlines and the large-scale owners. You are, of course, advertising the millions of the Recovery Fund, but you are not saying that their disbursement has something prerequisites for these atrocities that you voted on a few days ago, Mr Hatzidakis, for the ten-hour work and for the unpaid overtime. And as for these 180 million to be given to create fifty thousand new baby seats, who will take these, please? In accordance with Article 46, those who were the ones in committee were standing honey for the bill, the private owners of nursery stations, because this will increase their businesses so that they will then come to gold for a position of their children, either at these private stations or at the city halls with increased food. That's your policy. Let us now go on to the issue of preventing and dealing with the phenomenon of child abuse, neglect. If there are a number of measures to deal with, of course, in the bill, in order to prevent what is being done and, of course, there is hardly anything to be done about it. The question is, of course, resolved in the second article of the bill, which states that not only the measures to deal with, but also the prevention measures will apply them to bodies governed by public and private law, but the coexistence of public and private sectors again. Now tell me what kind of prevention you will do, what can private operators of all kinds do about child abuse and neglect? Here is the supremacy of the JRC's position on the exclusive responsibility it has and must, of course, take over by the State alone in this matter. The state's job and obligation must be to help family planning with the full support of families and especially those in crisis or those in which the pathogens of neglect or abuse manifest themselves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need your tolerance for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u28	Sure. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u29	None of this here in capitalism where the state simply plays the role of the wheelchair of responsibilities and responsibilities between parents and all kinds of private operators except for itself. That is where the State's consciousness of such a social service, especially social services, leads, in fact, to the government invoking it in its bill of law and, in fact, to legislate on it. Article 31, adoption and assumption. They are partial amendments and adaptations to the current law of SYRIZA without altering the substance. Civil policy you see continues with all governments whatever cloak they wear conservative or progressive. You are changing, specifically raising the age limits of parent fostering parents to the limits, literally to the limits of foster grandparents. But if there are few, you know, potential foster parents -- and they're few -- they're not the age limits. The reason for this little concern, Minister, for people to proceed to such a supreme act of altruism is another is their incomplete information, their insufficient support they see not being given to the state. You may advertise allowances every little and little for fostering families, yet they have been reduced, but you cannot hide the huge gap, the desert in the services of mental support and counselling for foster parents in their proper preparation for what they are going to face, in the proper information of the people involved with these children, teachers. These shortcomings are ultimately to blame, that even people who enter this process are disappointed, find it difficult to cope with the difficulties, so that they are not few, unfortunately, children who are being given admission must return to child protection structures by reliving, of course, the abandonment and psychological abuse with the absolute responsibility of the state. This time. ‘Personal assistant’ means persons with disabilities. Such a structure is responding to a real need for people with disabilities and could help improve their quality of life, but on the one hand, this service will be in the public health and welfare system, and, of course, it will be provided free of charge to all disabled people. None of this is there. This is a fragmented intervention outside the public health system, without universality, with an end date and with funding again from the Recovery Fund, mainly, rather than from the state budget. You tell me pilot it's the program, all right. But what happens after it ends, Mr Hatzidakis? How will this programme continue? By passing this service to the municipalities, who in turn claim that you do not give them money, will they seek this money to the PPPs, to the non-governmental organisations or even - to the pockets of the disabled families? And we go to Article 40, which is the crown of the bill in the sense of abortion. Article 40 is indeed the most abstract provision of this bill. A minor of 15-year-old children are sent to apartments with only criterion not to be in the child protection units, where else they want to be except there. It is the government's confession that until now its own policy and policy, but also the previous ones in the field of child protection, cannot guarantee the protection of an unprotected child. Since the takeover programs, as they have become, are unable to absorb older children, since professional contractors - this relentless real discovery of SYRIZA, listen to professional contractors - cannot manage teenagers in violation of behaviour and, of course, since the state refuses to provide those structures that ensure their decent living now comes the Government of New Democracy to literally remove these children into the curb. They are the children of five, ten, sixteen, seventeen years that for whatever reason they must live away from their families. The state, however, has to do for these children, to ensure that they are educated and not how they offer free work to hotel owners, municipalities and any other philanthropist, anyway, is interested in helping them get a job - it says - experience. But I forgot. In our country, child labour has been legal since the age of ten - is it not? - legal and this has not bothered either the previous governments and the SYRIZA government, since - I recall - the five hundred sixty-two booklets of 15-year-olds and sixteen-year-olds arrived in SYRIZA from five hundred sixty-two in 2012 to be seven and a half thousand more. Who knows where that number has arrived today! We'd love to find out. The numbers are one of the elements of the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u30	Please, Mr. Delis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u31	I have already completed by saying that we are, of course, voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. The floor is now given by the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mrs Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech here, and because the legislation concerns the dignified living of minors and promoting provisions condemning malicious behaviour, I would like to refer to the blatant injustice, soul rape and unequal treatment suffered by children under the age of 63877 Circuit of 31 August 2021 of the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: ‘Compulsory vaccination of hospitals in CIDs, ADIs and CIFs in the context of preventive measures against the coronary’ were left out of participation in CDEs for children with development disabilities and mental discomfort, which their parents did not want to inoculate for reasons which the state must respect, since it concerns undisputed human rights. This act is the greatest abuse of small and medium-sized children, since we are discussing this issue. While they can enter their special school with a simple self test, as is the case for all other children, they lack their equally important socialisation and rehabilitation structure, i.e. CSRs, for reasons that do not end up with the judgment of common sense and the legislation that protects their human rights. It cannot work on them by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to force it to blackmail already charged parents. We are calling on you, Minister, to cancel this circular and to allow young people with developmental and mental disabilities to participate in the MEDIs under the same conditions of prevention against COVID, with which they are admitted to special schools. In the general part of the draft, and in particular of the first part of the bill, Articles 1 to 12, a mechanism is created to prevent and deal with incidents of child abuse and neglect. Protection of minority and the fight against abuse needs to be integrated into a comprehensive family policy, because it is directly linked to tackling the demographic problem. This is a matter not only political but also national ones, for which long-term policies need to be established, which will be established through national dialogue with cross-party consultation and consensus. In Article 4: ‘Reporting of incidents of abuse of minors’, the complaint should be only written and surnamed. Otherwise, each structure will be remorseful of complaints by people who have not noticed an incident themselves, but simply to denounce them. In Article 5: ‘Definition of a child protection officer’, paragraph 2, the words ‘a child protection-related specificity’ need to be determined whether he is a natural person from those already in existence in the institution, i.e. a nurse, a nurse and others, as well as the formal and substantive qualifications he must have, so that in the event of abuse he is fully aware of his duty, but also a practical knowledge of how they should act. We also ask ourselves: Which authority will be carried out and who will take over this cost? If none of the already servants in the organisation wants to take up the position of the protection officer, what will happen? In Article 6, as regards public structures, the person responsible for the protection of minors shall be fully covered in the event of a legal dispute arising as a result of a reference of an incident of abuse with the obligation of the institution to provide legal support. In the case of private structures, however, they may and shall not be required to do so. We are standing at this distinction, which can even lead to a concealment of incidents due to a failure to cover the costs of judicial expenses. In Article 7, we believe that a copy of a generic criminal record should be used and not a copy of a judicial record. If intended for use by services, the general-purpose criminal record document should be preferred. In addition, the use of different types of copies of a criminal record may give rise to confusion in the competent authorities. In Article 10: ‘Strengthening staff skills’, given the importance of training staff in specific issues, identifying risks and recognising abuse, we believe that such training should be mandatory. Education should be carried out by bodies or trainers who have knowledge of and expertise in the field of abuse. The training offered should be of a uniform format for all child protection officers and should also be of a scientific and practical nature and not just for information purposes. In Article 11: ‘Sources’ if the child protection officer failed to make the notification without delay of the reports of abuse, it will be extremely difficult to identify by the social counsellor, as he cannot have a picture of whether reports have been reported and when. In addition, it is extremely difficult to identify the breach of the obligation to register in the national reporting and reporting system, as anyone who has made a reference to the responsible person cannot know whether or not an entry has been made in order to address the Social Council. In short, the final burden falls on the body rather than on the one who committed the breach, which we could say is unfair. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] For Part II, and in particular for the "CYPHEL" programme and the National Council for Pre-school Education and Education, we have the following points: First of all, this draft law makes no specific reference to the content of the ‘BYSHLE’ programme. Do we, as we have already pointed out in previous meetings, but did the bodies which have been called upon to express their thoughts and suggestions, whether this programme is based on scientific, sociological and pediatric data and on detailed studies of the approved scientific community? Are they involved in its consultative and institutional bodies and persons who have a day-to-day employment with pre-school children and have therefore gained sufficient experience in the field? Or are they standard rules of conduct which are far from being the real needs of a complete, realistic and effective framework of action? In Article 13: ‘Application’ refers to a reference to further investigation of any learning difficulties, disabilities and other disorders. But from there on, what? Referring to further investigation of any learning difficulties, disabilities or other disorders, what does it include? The recruitment of specialist therapists and therapists? On what criteria will they be chosen? Will their remuneration be covered by Greek taxpayers' money? In Article 14: ‘Application’ in paragraph 1(b) shall now also include infants and infants by collecting and registering their results in individual dossiers. How will their personal data be protected? In Article 16: "Recommendation of the National Council for Primary Education and Education", in our view, there must be special scientists and not service actors, who have many years of experience according to their specificity. In short, we are afraid that, once again with this provision, the others are being promoted. We also ask ourselves: How much money will be spent on the state budget in setting up special scientific committees and working groups with the participation of even experts in the functioning of the National Council for Pre-school Education and Education? Finally, in the composition of the National Council of Preschool Education and Education why does a member of the Panhellenic Federation of Parents and Princess of Disabled Persons not include? The omission of the presence of a representative institution of the parents of children with disabilities on this board is unacceptable and shows social analgesia. In Article 25, we point out that there is reference to unaccompanied minors whose needs are increased and skilled and who are involved in providing specialised legal support, interpretation, but also, possibly, psychological support, according to each individual case, in order to achieve a successful assumption for the benefit of children. However, another sign of haste and curiosity in the training of the present is that there is no mention of meeting these specific needs. In Article 26, in which the age limits are described, we still consider the sixty-year-old difference between parent and child donor. Successful assumption requires mental and physical power reserves. We need ages to be as close as possible. No one disputes the good intentions of the older candidates, nor, of course, the experience they have gained from life. However, minor children, apart from affection, also need continuous presence and active involvement in their everyday lives, how much more generally when they come from family environments that have caused them mental injuries, or have experienced traumas that have very likely led to specific behaviors. Although this provision broadens the basis for selecting the fostering parents, who are extremely few in relation to the children to be taken up according to the latest data, we do not consider that the best age of the contractor is in the interests of the minor. It is in the best interests of the child to be close to parental age. In line with the above, we consider that the age difference threshold from sixty to fifty should be reduced downwards. It is different that the contractor of a ten - year - old is sixty years old and that he is seventy years old. Moreover, unfortunately, for three years already, it has been foreseen that the right to become contractors are families made up of spouses or having concluded a cohabitation agreement. We believe that the reference to the assumption of minors by homosexual couples and by the way and persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement is a vehicle for future legislative regulation on the adoption of homosexual couples. As we have repeatedly stressed, the Greek Solution is contrary to this. In Article 27 it has been approved by our domestic case-law that an entity that has merely acquired custody of a minor cannot choose a contractor and therefore conclude a contract of assumption with the foster parents. Also, a reasonable question is whether or not a relative assumption should be preferred. The family environment is familiar with the child, but in many cases children to be taken up come from biological parents who are unable to respond to their own function and also come from equally dysfunctional, interdependent environments. Our proposal is that a friendly person, both to the organic family and to the child itself, is often the most appropriate contractor. In Article 28, first of all, we note the importance of supervising the assumption by a single body in order to avoid the problems caused by the confusion of responsibilities between several relevant bodies and thus different bodies. In addition, this supervision service should be sufficiently staffed with qualified and numerically competent staff, which will be able and at any time ready to contribute effectively to any issue raised. In Article 29(3) homogeneous couples may become donors, but they do not have to monitor the training programmes of candidate parents in the event of the child being taken up by their spouse. In essence, and with this article, the adoption of children from homosexual couples is being prepared indirectly. In this, as we have already said repeatedly, we are vertically opposed. In Article 31: "Enforcement by the Welfare Body, strengthening the role of the Social Adviser", the role of the Social Council is very important and should be upgraded to the level that society needs. However, stable, permanent and effective support from the state is needed through the creation of a specialised multi-faceted department with appropriate staff, with the sole objective of strengthening and defending the responsibilities arising from the role of the social advisor, a role that is necessary to extend to the functioning of structures and actions which encourage the elimination of abuses to children, disabled, elderly and long-term sufferers. With regard to Part IV and the "Personnel" for disabled persons, Article 32 entitled "The Purpose", describes the purpose of establishing the staff assistant, who, as defined by their title, will support the daily living and will aim for the gradual integration of our disabled people into society, as well as to support their daily living, with the aim of eliminating all kinds of social exclusions, discrimination and injustices that exist every day. However, we are concerned about whether the personal scientific training of the staff of such a assistant is provided to suit the persons he serves and the kind of conditions he is required to serve. Individualised to treat a blind man. It is different whether he is born blind or has lost sight of an accident or a subsequent condition. Personalised to help a person in a wheelchair. It is different whether it is a sexual disability or an accidental motor disability or a later illness. The effective provision of assistant staff services on a case-by-case basis requires specialised training, but also regular support from qualified scientific staff. Another important issue is the service of assistant staff to mentally ill persons, which is not provided for in this bill. A great deal of omission, even greater void, which should be covered by legislation immediately. There is a need for staff and, indeed, there is a great need for mentally ill people, and there is a need for specialist help, specialized and personalized, both practically and scientifically, because mentally ill is particularly psycho-corruption. The families of mentally ill persons are under constant and unsatisfactory pressure. Their daily lives are tortured and affect healthy members, who lack personal time, but also elementary comforts, which affects both family members and relations between them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. In addition, the time of the assistant staff should not be limited to either time or age contexts. It cannot be foreseen only for working days and hours or for ages up to seventy-five years, since this age and the older are those which need continuous assistance. Patients in need of help need help need help all year round as well as holidays and weekends. Therefore, the State should immediately take the relevant care to meet their needs. Finally, there was talk of helping families with young children with the establishment of the so-called 'Dantas of Neighbourhood'. Is the state going to be careful in choosing the people who will be the nannies of the neighborhood? Will they have checked their training, their experience and their character? How will their state ensure that the nanny provides its services? Will she be the nanny of three and four children at the same time? Which house? What parent will accept to be kept in his home three more, for example, unknown children with an unknown nanny and even in his absence? What about disseminating equality between pre-school children in such a small space with no specifications that may and may be hosted over-aged parents? That is a good thing. You're probably trying to cover up the lack of childcare facilities this way. The solution is to set up children's facilities so many and such that they can meet the needs of working parents and provide pre-school children with appropriate education and not transfer improvised mini-children's stations to private homes. And of course, don't forget about children and families with children LEADER, because you have a duty to make it easier for them if you want to say that you are leading a social state. Therefore, a staff assistant to AIFs needs to have a role of curator for AIFs with development disorders or mental delay. It needs to accompany the children from school at home or at the place where they are employed in the framework of an ADI for ADI by slitting, so that the parent doesn't leave his job for a few hours. It is necessary to employ children at home, where it is impossible to visit CRAs due to distance on the day-to-day and in particular on holidays. It is necessary to deal with issues of administrative order of small and medium-sized children in the CSDPs or even the ECA and procedures for the compensation of special treatments, so as not to trouble the working parents and not to get out of their routine the small and medium-sized children and is upset. It is necessary to support a parent who, in a difficult position due to fatigue, illness, personal weakness or even older, cannot support home cleaning work for his child, meal preparation and care. Minister, the bill being passed is full of gaps, inaccurateness, vagueness and manipulation. It is written on the 'foot'. Let us hope that in future they will come to the vote on bills of good, serious, fit to meet the real needs of the citizens, to provide them with security and certainty rather than revealing the carelessness of the governments that promote them. We could be positive, but you do not allow us to do so because you are putting things in a positive position that we cannot vote on. That is why we shall vote'residents' in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u34	The floor now is given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mrs. Apatzides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by addressing the very worrying events in Stavroupolis in Thessaloniki. The assault of fascists who came out of school in Stavroup with helmets, loots, knives, against students at an anti-fascist gathering reminds us of our debt to fight fascism and policies that give birth to him. In no case can we tolerate the creation of new raids and we must be vigilant in order to avoid such a development. I'm going through the bill under discussion. Indeed, it raises very important issues that need to be given special attention, as, as we are used to saying Mera25, a society is judged by how it treats itself in its most precarious and vulnerable parts. It is therefore positive that we at last have a bill with provisions concerning the prevention and treatment of incidents of child abuse and neglect - by a government that has so far been used to us, that is to say, notorious, that it is being deceived by the hypocritical art of malicious ones - while other provisions concern the promotion of the institutions of admission and adoption, the establishment of a service of the Personal Assistant with Special Needs and the creation of new Departments of Baby Care. As beautiful and necessary as these programs are seen, one would be naive if one thought "Metsotakis S.A." suddenly discovered the value of the social state and social services. A number of social programs, pilots and some permanent ones are launched by the legislation promoted. For the "Metsotakis S.A." of social davrinism, natural inequality and cooling of Peristeri, these programs are another good opportunity for the distribution of public money with social abalaz. More and more public structures and services are provided to individuals, but they are financed by public money. So they are persecuted with inexperienced benefits at one time according to the government's habits. The cost of all these benefits is not specified. On the other hand, clarifications such as the level of payroll that workers receive, total costs, etc., are transferred to future joint ministerial decisions. The only reference made is an entirely general one, which states that funding will come from state resources and the Recovery Fund. If these are added to everything promised by the government, how will they be covered through the Recovery Fund? There are two possibilities: Or the whole of the recovery fund will be overtaken, which basically means the government wears "rolls with rocks", simply Greek, or they will be financed with what is left over from what the oligarchy won't accept getting, so it will work with crumbs, making all these services in advance completely devalued. Of course, when the current government takes similar legislative initiatives, with its very negative history on similar issues, such as child abuse, one is entitled to ask: is it actually throwing an ashes in its eyes or in the presence of its ministers who were deceived, allegedly, from the hypocritical art of abuses who had arbitrarily promoted in subtle positions, or from completely recent Members of Parliament who have targeted innocent infants, by name, reminding me of other times on the right? Why are we listening to all these nice things - and other colleagues have said so - for the development, strengthening of skills, skills and skills for babies through the game and respect for groupness, individual growth in each infant, as well as strengthening the relationship between families and a station? And we wonder whether there is a hindrance, when a New Democracy MP a few days ago, Constantine Bogdan made pretexts for children and infants moving lists with their names and ringing as supposedly responsible children and infants for the dangers that the nation runs. I really wonder. So when all this has been done so recently and have you seen a similar attitude towards the role of kindergartens and schools, how do we trust you with your intentions in your bill? We sincerely hope that the National Council for Pre-school Education and Education will be served by citizens who have a different attitude to children and infants than your Members. Part I, therefore, for the person responsible for preventing child abuse, this is certainly a measure, first of all, positive and necessary, but we are concerned with the way it is being established, which does not exclude new interlocutory and addiction relationships in practice. This institution is absolutely essential for us to be accompanied by three things. First, from independence. Secondly, education and know-how. And thirdly, from the guarantees of his. As regards the first, that is to say, independence, if that person is designated by the head of the structure, then he will be a director dependent on the direction of the structure, who will not have the necessary power to turn against the structure. So there must be no relationship of institutional dependence. It's better to have specialized evaluators of the situation coming from outside the structures. The question also arises as to whether responsibility will be established when there is a failure to report an incident of abuse. More generally, we have also seen in the bills that the government has passed on to education an emphasis on a central school in which we have criticised. In this regard, however, if the abuse officer is part of that structure under her head, we will have a centralised, pyramidised structure which does not guarantee transparency the lack of behaviour has been abused. For many times abuses are not due to a person who happened to be abused, but mainly to a vicious structure where there is covert. If the child protection officer is part of a structure, then the question arises again: Who will keep us from the guards? There must be safeguards that address not only individual abuse behaviour, but also the phenomena of the structure heads. Moreover, the well-known stories of abuse, including minors, who really troubled the pan-Hellenic, were mostly stories of covert institutions, including high institutions, such as government. On the second issue, namely education and know-how, there must be a content of education that is united in Greek and that those responsible comply with and with the positive rights of children for a multi-faceted flowering, development, that is, skills, under the shape of their personality. On the third question, it is not enough that there should be no final condemnation of the candidate responsible. It would be important to examine the candidates from a group of experts who will decide on their suitability. There are, therefore, the wrong principles in this bill, as we can see in Article 7, regarding the ban on recruitment for staff working in child protection bodies only with a final sentence for crimes against sexual freedom, sexual exploitation and family crime, domestic violence, etc. It appears that the Government has learned nothing from the reasonable and strong reactions of all the stakeholders when it forwarded corresponding provisions in the draft law on compulsory conscience. He either does it negligently or does it on the ground. Again, the same government, in the same attitude, puts all those who claim they want to protect themselves legally. With regard to the 'CYPSEL' programme, Articles 15 and 16 shall be set up as an advisory and advisory body, a National Council for Pre-school Education and Education in accordance with the standards of the Government. This council will only be able to function as a scientific mantle, as in the vast majority it will be managed by government-appointed officials of the Ministries. Article 26 amends paragraph 2 of Article 8 of Law 4538/2018 on SYRIZA regarding age limits and conditions. Here the government does not correct past mistakes, where, as regards the natural qualifications of parents and contractors, there is a blurred reference to good health without this being sufficiently clarified. In other words, there is a serious risk for us contractors not to have the necessary chance of doing their work. He needs more precision. The V part with the semi-autonomous living program in apartments of 15 years or more and the funding programme for the creation of new parts of baby care is given once again the opportunity for people to exploit programmes for personal enrichment. It is planned to create fifty thousand new jobs for infants. We hope, first of all, that it is not about the infants that Mr Bogdanos approves. They may also participate in them, as they are referred to. The financing costs shall be borne by the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and shall be covered by Union resources under the Recovery and Resilience Fund. It concerns construction, renovation, repair and configuration of existing buildings and outdoor areas. In other words, the government finances private nurseries which, as we can imagine, will not provide their services free of charge. What is happening is that the government will distribute public money on the occasion of the social programmes. With regard to 'personal assistants for disabled people', we are concerned at the lack of clarity that the benefit of the pilot project arises from the selection of a representative sample between the applicants on the basis of predefined criteria. So, what exactly, really, the representative sample for you? Criteria again are not sufficiently defined. As MERA25, we believe that our aim is not only to respect the negative rights of SMEs, for example, that there should be no discrimination and so forth, but above all to respect their positive rights, namely, that there should be care to live with the best possible life and development of their skills. For all these reasons, as a PART25, we attach particular importance to compensatory education with the aim of including and reintegrating pupils into the learning process, reducing school leakage, successfully completing compulsory education and increasing access rates to the second stage of secondary education. We are proposing, in this respect, the introduction of an inclusion class, namely, the existence of a special training course for every sixty to a hundred students throughout basic education with a view to the early and effective response of learning difficulties within the school unit. The same applies to people with dyslexia and learning difficulties and are unable to unfold all their potential, and often within the school, as they are not given the right way to perceive things that are difficult to understand or to memorize, respectively. For a school of inclusion, teaching in classes should also be adapted to their own way of learning and functioning. We need to provide adequate number and density scientific centres for free psychological and therapeutic support for children and families, as well as for support and training for teachers. The school generally needs special teaching materials and customized teaching in small groups for class children, for admission to reception classes, for children with learning and special needs. Similar policies will help us to really open our schools to the LEADER and bring in contact with the entire educational community with the existence and needs of the LEADER. However, these issues will be linked as a PARTA25 with a legislative initiative that we will shortly be putting forward with a view to ensuring the truly decent and secure livelihood of small and medium-sized enterprises. The minimum privilege should go from EUR 313 to EUR 1,000, which, escalating to ensure the basic needs of the HEIs and thus allow them a life of personal flowering and full integration into society without the unbearable insecurity in which the HEIs are now living. It is, of course, a matter of policies which radically solve the problems similar to the relentless policies of this bill, for which we are unscrupulous because of the previous life of the government. We are voting against the bill in principle and I shall be placed for the amendments in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are now entering the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going back to my house yesterday and on the road I saw a blue means of transport, a pedestrian. So I take care that it stops at the point where it is going to go for MEDAs. I was about to comment on him. He had come down, however, and by opening the back door he looks at me and says, "Mr Babi, that's what happens, because I can't carry the child." He had a child of LEAD in and had to carry it about two hundred meters below, one hundred and fifty meters below. Go play basketball. There's a center in my neighborhood where people go play, etc. He told me his complaint. Out of curiosity, I begged a neighbor to go see, because this center has room to get in by car and park. The truth is, by passing, I noticed that he was tied up, that he had cars everywhere. So I begged a neighbor who goes there and he and his kid to see whose cars are. Cars were trainers, coaches, center staff. He's tied up. But the man didn't have access to take his child up there to join the basketball team that is LEADER. This is our understanding. We start from very low, ladies and gentlemen, from very low, unfortunately, and we need to take many steps of which - and I thank the Ministry's leadership that brings them - are here. I would like to tell you that I have carefully followed the suggestions. We agree a lot more than we think. And the remarks that have been made, which are most important, I think that the Ministry should take them into account when going to practice and make politics. It is not Parliament's job - in my opinion, of course - only to say the context, to give directions, to listen to society. From that point on, we will control the government, the ministries and these new services - which are new - and whether the improvement of the services included in the draft law will also be done. I would like to mention another point which I would also like to make in mind, because it is a tasty that I kept Maria Athanasiou, a good journalist in Kathimerini. "If you're a good friend, he tells me seriously..." - as the journalist tells - "You'll come and cook together. He wants to give me a hair tire too, make me a nice little gut. What else can one want from a friend?" - says reporter - "Greatness, inappropriate commitment and a sincere smile." The child who interviews Maria Athanasios is Loxandra Lucas, a child with Down Syndrome who went up and played at the stage of the National Theatre. Good for all the people who helped her! Why did that happen? Because she had two parents who found two other parents who found a group of people who all stood next to him. And what did they do? They showed great special abilities the individuals we consider to be individuals who need something to be a little outside, as if we were in the 19th century when they were looking to find people who needed to help with their money. No, these are people who are next to us, who need to be next to us, and we need to find them very quickly. That's why I disagree with my colleague, Mrs. Fotio, who says we're going to smash the babies. But it's not a file matter. It is a question of knowing the needs quickly. Control can be done to anything that's electronically now, much easier than it was in the old freckles. So the important thing we have to do is know the needs and I invite you to change your position in this. Reading my draft law came scenes - and I imagine all those who had the opportunity to see it were excellent - from the 'Les Intouchables' film, where Omar Sy, a giant in the role of a man, who has been out of prison for having done heavy sins, has chosen one - I do not remember his name, he is a very good French actor - but he is very rich and has to pay him. And there you see the human relationship that he makes between these people. That's where there's money. It can all be made easier. Where there is no money, there is society, there is the state. And I want to believe that when we say state, we won't call state services. We'll call social service. That's what we're interested in. But the human moment exists in this film and we must keep it. That is why he has also been very successful. I'm on it. I believe that where we have to bear our burdens is to see the whole thing of pre-school education. With the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Education on her initiative to implement the law that we have passed and not to consider that a law can be thrown into the trash because some of us or others object when they have it, this is where the disputes are resolved or in the courts where they will be resolved within an hour. I want to tell you one more thing. The spokesman of the Communist Party has speeded up the "DIANOSIS". That's why I found in my bag a mask of "DIANOSIS", if you want me to tell them to send you one. It's a great one, it's not a think tank. It's not an English thing. It's a Greek thing. They are Greek scientists, they are Greeks who love their country, they love people who live here who work constantly to give us something more. And they gave us this. And they've documented that we don't have the level that we could and should have in pre-school education. Now we're building it, and I hope we can make it. I am in a hurry, Madam President, to end by pointing out two, three things from the draft law. As far as child abuse is concerned, I think it is very right that monitoring begins on the inside and we should start showing confidence in what the institutions and bodies and services that the state creates are doing. There must therefore be control over this, and there must also be control over it. As regards the matter of the staff assistant, I think the example I gave at first I was hurt. I imagine you all have the same examples, unfortunately. It is very important that it should be extended at the first opportunity. Finally, this country must not wait when Europe will give us money to set up a programme, but we must integrate it into our everyday lives and in the budget that in ten days' time we will see its draft here. That is what I agree with the criticism that has been made. The programme for the early diagnosis of learning difficulties is extremely important and we do not go to mock what was once, because the New Zealand programme, for example, on these issues was a global success for imitation. We must be able to diagnose it in time. And that proves what I told you about the kid, the actor with Down Syndrome. There fast. But there's the best investment. All the investigations prove that 1 euro that we put there will be EUR 60, 100, 200 on the path that the child will grow. All research shows that these children who help in preschool education properly in their social model have much better performance in school after and for the rest of life. So let's support these provisions and check the Ministry that he's doing his job right. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, the vindication of the fight against distribution workers in e-food and the very great social support really showed a way of hope and optimism because they were able to mobilise themselves despite being one of the most marginalized workers without stable relations, without organized unions and trade unions, and at the same time we saw the great support of the same world through social media, a great wave of social solidarity and support. But retreating the company under this social outcry and pressure in no way solves the problem. What is needed today is an institutional safeguard of workers' working relationships on digital platforms. That is why the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance we have tabled an amendment to the current draft law that we are debating in order to establish: firstly, that the employees of distributors on digital platforms will only be employees of dependent labour. Secondly, that the employees of distributors and, in general, workers on digital platforms will be integrated into heavy and unhealthy professions and, thirdly, that there will be those working conditions of health and safety, such as the possibility of housing them while there is a gap in their work, for waiting and for hygiene conditions. We are tabling this amendment first of all as a clear commitment from the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance when we have the popular mandate again by abolishing the Hatzidakis law and all the anti-corruption arrangements of this government, that it will also be a concrete regulation that we will adopt. At the same time, however, we call on the government and the current Minister to agree to discuss this amendment today, because we believe that it will bring together the vast majority of this House and colleagues from the Co-Population. Because the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the fight against distributors, but above all social outcry has in practice annulled Article 69 of the Hatzidakis Act, which opened the way for this blackmail by the company e food through the reversal of the presumption that has now enabled workers to be classified as self-employed in the platforms. At the same time, Minister, I take this opportunity to make a few comments and comments on the ministerial amendment you tabled last night. I can only agree with the criticism of previous colleagues that it is a very bad piece of legislation and unacceptable on your part that there should be a bill from the Ministry of Labour last Friday - at four meetings we discussed it - and that you should not bring us this amendment to have a debate first within the committee itself. There's no excuse - I imagine - time for that. It's not an emergency. It should have been done in a way of specific consultation within the committee. Because in this way and we can rightly understand that you are avoiding a substantial debate on the issues of the OAED. I would first like to make a position on Article 12 of the amendment and my colleague, Mr Mulkiotis, referred to this earlier. We believe that it is in the right direction, first of all, that it comes to reset the regulation for the fifty marks. It's a need. But you are doing so in a poor way, and I would really like to ask you to complete this provision because there is a huge issue for workers in the field of food and tourism. Point one: there are too many of these workers, thousands, who were on a job suspension in May and June due to the fact that they did not open all the accommodations or all the catering operations or did not find work. These workers are now hanging out. Their badges don't look at the FBI. Can you imagine, Minister, that workers' signals have not even been shown in the food and tourism sector of 2020 that were suspended from work? And I am opening a great deal of parentheses and telling you that this needs to be resolved because, ladies and gentlemen, these people lack basic rights. In other words, they cannot have the right to take over, to register children in kindergartens or to draw up pensions. So, in order to return to this particular Article 12, you need to add a supplement, in order to ensure that these workers do not lose the right to enter the unemployment fund and have that benefit. At the same time, another very serious issue arises for young workers who, for the first time this summer, worked in tourism and food business. These people are covered, Minister, by the fifty meanings? We want a clear answer. Because at least as we have understood from the debate and with their federation they are not covered, they need to have a hundred badges. You understand that this is tragic. So there is also a need for regulation on young workers who have worked this summer for the first time. A third matter. There are thousands of invisible workers in tourism and foodism who are currently not based anywhere on the OAED programme can enter, or unemployment benefit, and have no state coverage. I think that, in particular, for the third category, you should also bring in some specific regulations. But at least on the first two issues that we have raised to you, we think that today you can make some commitments and make the relevant amendments to your amendment. I shall now turn to the other issues of the OAED, and I shall end. You come in a few words with this amendment to hire labour advisers to the OAED. That's good. Questions: Since you decide to proceed, why, first of all, must the task of the employment adviser be a decision by the commander alone? Why don't you go through a normal procedure that you have an announcement of the positions, that there should be a worker's request and a transparency in the procedure? Question 2, why are recruitment in accordance with Article 2 of the labour advisers carried out for contractors and not for permanent posts, since it is a permanent issue in the fight against unemployment? Here I would like to point out that the SYRIZA Government has approved seven hundred permanent jobs of labour advisers where the Government of New Democracy did not go ahead. I should also like to remind you that three hundred sixty permanent labour advisors had already been hired by the SYRIZA government. In Article 5, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Why just by ministerial decision? Would it not be much fairer and transparent after a decision of the OAS's board of directors involved and social actors? I think you should see it again. As also - and I close with this - we do not understand why for two years the New Democracy Government has been continuing to extend for the implementation of the OAED's new establishment plan. Why a new extension? Why do you not implement and implement the presidential decree with the organogram drawn up by the SYRIZA government? You may also make some modifications, if you wish. But there is, unfortunately, an explanation here that you do not want to put the new establishment plan in place and make regular judgments of directors and supervisors and keep going on to arbitrary awards. I think you should look at all this very seriously and make the corresponding corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, my colleague. Now he has the floor, Mr. Poulous, from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that during the decade of the crisis, the areas most affected and to which most of the cuts were made were those creating a social protection net for citizens in the field of public health and social welfare. Today, social structures are objectively inadequate and weakened, the social services of the Local Government bodies are under-represented and social bodies are not institutionally shielded and without infrastructure, while a significant part of the state's welfare responsibilities have been transferred to non-governmental organisations, private-law legal entities and institutions. Our prolongation has implemented the major sectors for the family, for gender equality, social structures and services. Our difference with the Government, but also with the Qualified Opposition, is that the government understands benefits as charity to the citizens, and SYRIZA believes that temporary benefits can build a welfare state. We in the Change Movement believe that we can decapitate the social state from reasonable merciful and subsidised policy through social consultation and targeted measures. For us, for the Movement of Change the strong social state is the core of our policy, a prerequisite for social cohesion and development. First of all, I would like to dwell on the 'BYSHEL' programme which hopes for the development of pre-school education in a single system for all pre-school children without social, economic and other constraints. It will provide services of high standards and ensure equal opportunities. We believe that pre-school education is a key pillar of socialisation within a training programme. However, this does not appear to be apparent from the provisions. It's a void content. Just establish a framework without basic needs details. Imagine that it is neither specified when nor where it will be applied pilots. We need a holistic implementation with a specific timetable. The Change Movement welcomes any legislative initiative that has a positive social impact and strengthens social welfare structures, particularly those concerning the protection of children and vulnerable social groups. But are the measures that you've introduced enough? Is it enough for you to take the self-evident view that this is also being introduced too late, as it has already been two years since your party took power? The answer is clearly negative. We believe that you are doing very little and too late in the social welfare sector too you are taking measures of fragment and clipboard that are not part of a comprehensive plan for the long-term upgrading of social services. In particular, the protection of minority and the fight against abuse must be integrated into a comprehensive family protection policy. It is directly linked to the treatment of the demographic problem. This is not only a political issue, but also a national issue, and for which long-term policies must be established which will be established through a national dialogue with cross-party consensus and consultation. We are therefore waiting for government initiatives in this direction. The measures you are introducing to deal with child abuse, I believe, should extend them to Roma camps and the closed structures of migrants. In the direction of protecting minority, it should be explored and strengthened as an institution for the prosecutor of minors. Do you intend to make use of the experience of the institution and of the direction of assumption and adoption, which have a particularly active role in assessing the suitability of the child's family environment? Are the changes to the institution of assumption and adoption sufficient to reduce bureaucracy and delays in their implementation? With regard to the application of the institution of the assistant staff for disabled people, no one can claim that this is not an extremely helpful measure. I believe, however, that you have cultivated too much expectations without any objection. You are establishing a pilot application of the institution for the years 2022-2024 and we can only ask ourselves whether pilot implementation as you present it is possible. We must now agree to a universal implementation of the service to the disabled and to avoid the complexity and bureaucracy of the pilot. But why did you not provide for this in Article 38, where the source of resources should be referred to in Article 38 for universal application? In the original bill as set out in ‘Open Gov’ in Article 31, the resources were provided for. You removed that. Why did you remove it? I am sure that the daily lives of disabled people, even with the temporary assistant, will be improved a little, but it will not even be close to the change that will occur with the universal application of the institution if the necessary resources are made available. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the institution, continuous monitoring and evaluation by the Monitoring and Evaluation Committee, which must ensure the participation of the representatives of the disabled movement, as referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 4 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, is required and enforced. Assessment committees should be set up by region or municipality in cooperation with disabled persons in order to be next to disabled people. With universal application, it is essential, in fact, to draw practical conclusions so that in two years' time any corrections can be made to the institution and, at the same time, it will also enable beneficiaries to live. In other words, this draft law is a report of good intentions for which you have not yet decided how to implement it, undermining effectiveness. In particular, in the pilot run where it is envisaged, a title is at risk of being left without content. Finally, the question remains unanswered: What is your vision of the social state? How will family and vulnerable social groups be supported in the long term? How will a child be directly fulfilled outside the child station? How many gaps are there right now? What is the commitment schedule to cover all of this? How will the actions of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health be coordinated on the implementation of special treatment actions that are often overlap with overall and coordinated programming? With regard to the amendment, which you tabled at night again on such a serious issue, such as childcare, without the possibility of being sufficiently discussed, we would like to point out that it is moving in a very general context and that there are no specific issues such as the amounts allocated to its implementation. Why are you not oriented towards creating more kindergartens in cooperation with the municipalities, setting out the terms and rules of operation, but once again - as you do on other issues - you throw the ball on the citizens? You're trying to remove the state from where you can. We are not negative to this institution, but we think that on such an important issue sufficient consultation is needed before it is voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending, when we legislate and specifically on issues relating to social policy, a piece of legislation must be useful, it helps vulnerable social groups, it can be implemented for everyone and achieve the objectives it sets out. It is not enough to build institutions that are semi-finished and inadequate. That is why we need to ensure a great deal of money from the Recovery Fund for Social Welfare, so that there is a significant social added value. Social policy is not done either in the living room or in theory, in the universities and in the large halls. It can't be a creation of communication and impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not about personal intentions. They may be the best, the right to be the best and, above all, to have that negative that does not go to public opinion, because we have used them to Greek citizens, European citizens, the citizens of the Western - so-called - civilized world, as if the rest were not a civilized world, in the sense of charity. The whole bill has a philanthropist approach. We're leaning over trouble. In fact, it is not the case, for the disabled, for the pre-school age or for the children. It is a deep gap between reality and intentions and at the same time political choice and the opposite political choice. Capitalist political choice is within the philosophy of our previous colleague. He saw the movie, he was moved that the former convict with a lot of money took an old man and made him feel disabled, he was fine and added the phrase that is all the philosophy governing these bills. He added a phrase that is shocking: 'For those who do not exist the state'. Let's get it from here, Ministers and colleagues. The state is only for the poor. The rich can simply be sewed to be rich, because those who are very rich in this state have become rich and with the performance of the foreign state that becomes a foreign state for its citizens and going out of that state and politicising and robbing areas outside that state and remaining a state for the poor. But the state exists because there are these poor people and they are the workers' hands. So let's go to a philosophy where the kid - whether he is pre-school, or he's 15 years old - is "target group" for advertisers. It's a target team. He's got money to spend, either by the parent or directly through the pocketbook. It is studied, analysed, gone in depth and look at how to extract the child and make it needs that are presented when as family needs, when as needs from here, when needs from there. But actually, it's an exit. That's why we're talking about allowances, because it's still out. It is a good intention not to leave the 15-year-old child under institutional conditions. It's a very good thing to be interested in the abused child. The 15-year-old in an apartment alone is not a candidate for abuse, but is already abused. It's already malicious without structures. Tell me, how's this kid going to sports? How will it go, if she has talents, in artistic spaces to express herself? How's he gonna move? How's he gonna eat? How will she sleep? How's he gonna get through his loneliness, hormones, his adolescence at fifteen? Admit it for children over eighteen who remain in institutions. It makes perfect sense there to help, so that they can stand. How much will the family do? What will he do? Because in order to be against the work of the children from 15 to 15, we have to accept something. It is very wicked that you have made the school compulsory by 15 and you all accept it unpleasantly, because after the fifteenths where the physical, at least, is formed, they are offered for cheap labour. And suddenly when it comes to work, children aged 15. When they do some shitty stuff, but they're also our kids, we'll see you guys and then we'll generalize, "the kids here", "the kids there", "the kids over. " What kids? Children whose insurance companies don't trust when they get a driver's license in seventeen, eighteen who are now taking over and charging almost 100% of the premiums by twenty-three. The child is not considered capable of driving or not having an accident because he is a child. Just watch the age. But when man catches the steering wheel at thirty-one and gets a license at thirty-two, the insurance company doesn't charge him any more. We also trade in differences in age. It's unbelievable! They play with ages. The age of rape, the age of the vote, the age of work, the age of school, the age of commitment, mercy! And you're saying you accept the concept of a child? Which, anyway, is a newcomer, a new idea. Children's work has existed since they exist. Now there's modern childhood work. It is covered by legislative regulations by interventions of a thousand and two. If we had a single 12-year-old school, compulsory, which provided everything as it ought to provide a school, everything, would we today talk about work and 15 years-old children? Injured or not? What are we talking about? The foundation's loneliness or not? We'd have a school, the school would be a cell. You'll tell me a fascist cell is intensified to become now, and literally, a whole PSA in Stavroupolis for snakes of Nazism. At the same time as we're talking about teachers' evaluations, to hunt them and they won't accept to be evaluated, and there we leave them, or they're pressing, I don't know where they're holding them, to watch in the video all of us, nine, a year after the condemnation of the Golden Dawn, "greasy" and "creamy" to go out on the streets and people through the school say from there is the door, look how you get away. And we're addressing which children? Which children, what society? The one he's got? The one he doesn't have? And not everyone? If you had been here for a long time and wanted to make real innovation in the subject - not you, no government has done so far - you would have come and left us with an open mouth on increasing the budget appropriations actually going for children and indeed for the disabled. What regular budget is there any chance of doing this? No one at all. Three, the oil, two, the vinegar, maybe one and a half of the oil, we are. Because he's playing in the stock market and childhood. It's unbelievable how much childhood is playing in the stock market. Unbelievable the idea that the daycare station is equivalent to parking to liberate workers' hands. And if the workers are out of hand, we say it's too early to send the child to the nursery. It's like the massage and the mini skirt. Years depending on the textile and missing hands, when masses when mini, when masses when mini. It's the same as breast-feeding. The woman when to breast-feed is good, when not to breast-feed is good. Depending on how women, weak women and young people get into the productive fabric to increase profits. That's the point. You've got five good things. You have them, we'll vote. My colleagues, my fellow Members, have blown it up. They've said where we're going to vote. And the slightest trace of goodness there is, we'll do it. But I want to tell you that when you talk about disabled people, you need to think about what families have been loaded for decades. I should have brought Mona here with me, fifty-five years old, a world record that has survived just beyond Stavroupolis, in that area. He has survived thanks to the family and found his sister having, without any support structure, a Down Syndrome with any problems at the age of fifty-five, a father with dementia and a mother conscientious, unable to move. And there were no structures to absorb these people, because there were no pensions for the woman, because father didn't have any cover from the fund, because there were no structures for Down Syndrome, and these people stood up on their own. This is not an individual initiative, it is an individual acquisition of freedom with endless labor and consciousness for a world much better, forced by someone to do it, because they put the gun on his head. The child cannot be treated as a burden or as a cost or rejoicing because it is not the budget. A country and a country proud. A society, in fact, socialist, which really would like the minimum state, because the state would be the citizens, i.e. communist. Whether you like it or not, it would have a budget for all this, which would have no budget. It would be a duty of the state to raise children, who cannot, together with children who can be able to achieve equal, truly, conditions so that in future the share of stock exchanges, life and inability cannot be the subject of any one of us at any time in his family, either to the descendants or to the unemployed. With these thoughts, if we do not redefine the needs of a child who by eighteen in a complex and technically well-equipped culture like what we are living for, it should be recommended that he develop his personality, his talents, fellowship, collectiveness and go out to the eighteenth in society, not just ready to decide, not just ready and convenient to vote, but ready, never to manipulate, to decide freely and above all to create for others. If you want to talk about such children here we are historically proven capable of opening the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, when I read that you will bring a bill providing help for people with disabilities, I applauded myself. But we read your bill and we see a blessing, how exactly will you finance, set up this institution? There's no such thing. Convince me everything there is. Your bill doesn't exist. You reminded me of the institution of nurseries that you legislated and then you finally ran away to find some way to pretend that you applied it. These kinds of bills that require strong institutions and even stronger funding, which, however, do not give - institutions that you are not setting up - ultimately, yes, it is very beautiful for the state to recognise the need for an assistant for an AME, for an end to child abuse, but when you call them just as problems with the bills, the aim is, in fact, not to institutionalise and finance the fight against these phenomena and support these people, then you are actually insulting these people. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, today to talk about vaccination and vaccination, because we are in the deep autumn now, we are seeing red areas in Greece and, as we have last year, we have a government that prayerfully faces the danger we have. I'll be clear, ladies and gentlemen of the government. As a human species, we are lucky that scientists found vaccines quickly, which are both safe and effective, safer and more effective than we expected and wished. Indeed, this medical scientific miracle if we could politically manage it and be vaccinated, we would in fact have ended the pandemic problem to a very large extent. Do we agree here? I think we agree. That is why it is very important that we all get vaccinated, with some very small exceptions that the medical profession should tell us. But you see we're stuck in both the United States and here. Especially here. The rate of vaccination has been frozen. This is a political failure. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it was an easy mistake to make. It's the caricature of the caricature. As a state, we had a dilemma. We had the choice of patient work to convince the hesitants. Or advertising how rational we are and how stupid the invaders are. You chose the second. Do you know what's the bigger problem than the anti-infectors - who are a problem - right now? The anti-invasives. The discord you've caused, which you've done anti-infection an ideological attitude. This is basically the best food for the anti-vaccinators, for dissociation which, in the end, is not only breathtaking for a country, everywhere and always, but is also inhibiting the important vaccination programme, which has been detached. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not every hesitant conspiracy citizen. It does not believe any citizen who is not vaccinated that the vaccine is designed for our genocide. There are people who just want to be persuaded. According to recent surveys fewer than half of the unvaccinated say they will not be vaccinated. They want more evidence, they want us to use persuasion. The question is, what do we do to convince them? The strategy of the New Democracy Government is to make life harder and more expensive. A combination of authoritarianism, "you don't get in here if you don't show the health care certificate", with a market blockade, i.e. charging the rapid tests to get them vaccinated. This practice, outside the ideological and legal framework in terms of effectiveness, doesn't work and you've seen it. There was a percentage that they were saying 'I will not do it now, I will do it later, let me wait a bit'. They're the ones you convinced. They've been vaccinated. That's good. It's progress. But by treating the rest in an authoritarian way or in a practical manner of bankruptcy or in a deepening of their existing bankruptcy, make it very expensive for them not to be vaccinated, cement the anti-infection. That is why I say that anti-infection is the worst enemy of vaccination. The alternative to the government's strategy is a progressive human strategy, a clever campaign of persuasion and solidarity. Give an example. The way we present the statistics. I read in the newspapers that literally follow what the government says: "10% of hospitals have not been vaccinated" and virtually the silent subtitle is: "You are bastards who are in hospitals and you are not vaccinated." There is another way to present the same statistics. Instead of saying "10% have not been vaccinated and you are bastards", say "90% have been vaccinated. Come with us and the rest of us." It is a matter of ethos and styles how you present exactly the same message, just the same statistical given. I read and hear you say, for example,:'40% of the ages of eighteen to thirty have not been vaccinated' and the way in which you refer to them is that they are ridiculous, that they are not rationalists. Think of the alternative to tell them: "You know, at the age of eighteen to thirty percent have been vaccinated. Come on, everybody together, let's get it up.' It's a warning. What have your communications scientists become? You have too good and very expensive, ex-American. They know very well what I'm saying. And if you want to transfer it to them, so you don't want to look in the dictionary, it's called "nudge theory" what I just mentioned. Tell them to help you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important and I will say this once again with a few different words to inspire it. There are two options. The first option is demonization, with emphasis on the few invasive conspiracy conspiracies. There are. But the emphasis on them is wrong. It's wrong to stress the irrationality of some who prefer to take toxic pesticides that don't work and prefer these from the harmless vaccines. It's wrong to focus on them. It's a mistake what Mrs. Keramea did to the universities. We said from the outset and for schools, but especially now with universities to convert, enter into every higher education institution a unit on the one hand free of mass tests, continuously every week, and at the same time be a vaccination unit. And vaccinate and run a continuous test. Madam Thorniou, I have heard you say 'we will not give them a free test to impose them or to motivate them to be vaccinated', which is absolutely foolish and allow me the word. It's nothing less than stupid. Firstly, we vaccinated must also perform tests, because we are lucky at the moment. For circulating coronary strains, "Delta", "Mu", etc., it appears that the vaccines we have continued to be active against them. This is very good, but where do we know what is going to happen with the 'Epsilon' strain, 'Ta', 'Zeta', tomorrow? The country's national defense against pandemic - and if not it, in the next - is to have this public network of mass free tests, to know what is happening right now at the Aristotle University, what is happening right now at the University of Athens, the University of Patras, in schools. What is the extent and expansion and dynamic course, orbit of the virus and the various strains of the virus? It is not possible, Mrs Keramos, to tell the universities, students and teachers "strengthen and then you don't have to do any more tests". That is the definition of foolish irresponsibility and inefficiency after all. The second option, which we all have as a state, is to bend love and respectfully on the worker, for example, who fears that if he gets vaccinated can make a fever for a couple of days and lose a partition that has no possibility of losing it - do you think that? - who has no place to leave her child. Someone must be able to talk to these people, not only to support them economically, but to speak to them. That is why we, as a PARTA25, have made a proposal to make the National Health System available to the citizens who feel hesitant, who fear not conspiracy, who do not believe that the vaccine means genocide, but have an agony and want to talk to someone - you don't all know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, access to scientific staff - that they can talk to a doctor in the HR to say 'this is my situation, Doctor. Am I to fear or not to be afraid, to do it or not to do it?" We suggested it and you ignore us. You did not even say 'no' to us. At least honour us with a 'no' that this is a foolish idea. Centres for free tests and vaccinations, we said that before, but also small movements. For example, there has been a recent study, a study in the United States from Cathy Milkman and Angela Duckworth, a very systematic study, of what is increasing the rate of vaccination. What is it that convinces someone? We give a simple example. A SMS should come to you if you're late and you haven't been vaccinated saying: "We've kept you your dose. She is waiting for you in this place." A simple SMS. These are the small but important steps taken by a government, a state that embraces with love and respect for reluctant ones. You have lost the issue, the protection of citizens and you have left this combination of authoritarianism on the one hand and market methods to increase costs for the invaders. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a mental experiment, to do so together. While the government was coming here to plenary - I hope I do not give you any ideas, do not do it - it is an intellectual experiment - and proposes by amendment, with a bill: "Every citizen of the country that has not been vaccinated will pay an extra tax, a EUR 100 a month, which...", to convince the opposition, "... it will all go to the National Health System to shield it," so that the inconvenience to pay costs. It is true that if you enter this - do not insert it - some will be vaccinated instead of paying 100 euros a month fine. However, with such a move you will have cemented those who refuse the vaccine because they deny the right of an authoritarian and irreversible state regime to perpetuate their lives. You'll probably have created a bigger problem. They will not effectively raise vaccination rates and you will have divided society in a market-based neoliberal way. And all that does not happen in Switzerland is Greece, in a country of poor people with heavy red loans, with wages which are unacceptably low given the price level, which is increasing and you know that very well. Even so, in this way, you can impose vaccination on them and bitterness within them in a poor state of poverty only benefits fascism, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Did you see what happened in Stavroupoli? We see again and politically the repetition of the Samara government's tactics, this lick of the far right through equal distances at both ends. It is not the same, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, a proclamation of an antiquator with the cranes and the iron fences of a fascist. You have no right either to take equal distances to the extremities. You play with the fire we wanted to hope that it has been erased by the court of appeal for the Golden Dawn. Once again, poverty is fading, and this glorification of poverty is once again glowing the far right. The Memorandum of Understanding that is in force and will apply as long as we are in the fourth Memorandum and now that we enter the fifth - you do not say that, but that is - they will also nurture poverty, the auctions that are coming and the vicious circle is keeping well. The accuracy is added to red loans and very bad jobs. It may be in e-food that we all overthrow together as a society what has happened, but what e-food has gone to do is the future of this so-called labour market. What could be done differently ask me, for example. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take the example of electricity accounts, because it is a big deal now that PPC is privatised. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, here we have a very detailed and ideological difference between us. SYRIZA created the so-called energy stock exchange, which you took and extended it in and from any privatisations that had not been completed in SYRIZA. When you have a stock exchange you're supposed to have inside of it, which are productive. Energy companies are not production companies, they are stock exchange companies. Those who call you and tell you: "I will give you cheaper electricity and give you this contract, etc." they do not produce electricity, they do not give you the electricity in your home. What are they doing? They play on the stock exchange, buy a future energy that has not yet been produced with a contract, a derivative and hope that they will be able to sell it a little more expensive today, so that they can win, but a little cheaper than their competitors, so that they can compete on the stock exchange that SYRIZA created with orders, of course, of the Troika, it was not a idea of SYRIZA. By definition, this competition cannot reduce costs. This tale that competition always works in favour of the consumer, because it puts the costs in this case and in many other cases, not to say to everyone, but especially in this case by definition, cannot be the case. It's a fairy tale. This competition, which only does, is in the period of fat cows to draw revenues from the consumer, from the Greek state and to transfer them to these stock exchange companies, which are presented as energy companies and in the period of lean cows, then relocate from society or why you rescue them, grant them subsidies or through their bankruptcy, which ultimately have an impact on the cost of energy in Greece. That's why we're clear about this at Mera25. Eliminate the energy stock exchange and renationalise all utilities. Where they have been privatised, where false water markets have been created, the situation has led to a dead end, whether it was in California or water in Berlin. Do you remember when the water was re-democratized because of the failure of its privatisation? By the way, I would like to make a small comment on the German elections. Do you know about me personally at the moment was the most interesting part of the German elections? The referendum in Berlin, which basically nationalised three thousand apartments, whose rents went up very high. All the other results, particularly in the composition of a federal government in the final analysis, will not change anything either in Germany or in the European Union. I close parentheses and close them in general, Madam President. I hang up the way I started. If we manage to get more vaccinated, yes, the pandemic will be defeated at least by Delta, we do not know what will happen with Epsilon. Yeah, I'm clear on this, the vaccines are effective, they're salvages, they're public good. We need them out there. The problem is that an ineffective government, which systematically overstrates authoritarianism, so that it serves the very few people by destroying public goods, does not convince those and those who need to be persuaded, and so our society is still shaken by a pandemic that could have effectively extinguished, so the electricity bills at the heights are launched, so the snake's egg in Stavrou is being hatched again in Stavrou and elsewhere. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I invite you to disprove me in practice. Make a move now on vaccination. Put the authoritarianism aside and, at least, on the issues of pandemic, embrace the progressive, human strategy instead of the authoritarian market strategy. I'm afraid you won't do it, that it's not your nature. It's up to you to disprove me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Hatzidakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what different things the Government is adopting on vaccinations in relation to the Government of France, Italy, Spain and Portugal. Generally all European countries adopt the same approach. What I am sorry to see, however, is that the opposition, otherwise less, still in our homeland, is still on this issue in two boats, to speak, apart from one party, in favour of vaccination, but in fact to close the eye again less, more to the anti-infectors to avoid losing an audience. What I expect from the opposition, as she claims she has contact with the world, is to use this persuasion so that more will be vaccinated. Because we are bad, unacceptable, we are using wrong methods, you who use the right methods and you are better convinced, and you are more popular and more philosophical, this is a glorious phase, convince those who are not vaccinated so that you can help the place more and public health. This is like an introductory comment on the position of the leader of Mera25. And I come to the bill. If anyone had not read the bill and listened to the views of colleagues in the opposition, he would think that this is about a disastrous bill, which should not go ahead and leave things as it is, because with all these terrible ideas we have in this bill, there will be a great social problem. I do not think that such a concept can be criticized, simply underlines a miserable and outdated concept of how the opposition is exercised. One could comment on the bill, pointing out that what the bill does is a little in some areas, that more should be done, that it should be done somewhat differently. But here there was an equivocal perception, which I think is the basic point that it is making is to cut off the opposition, more than is happening to the present day, with the average Greek citizen. But that's your problem. Our priority is to constantly explain, as we have done so far, what this bill does, which if we wanted to put a brief title we would say is a bill to upgrade social protection in Greece. It doesn't solve all the issues. Obviously the country in relation to other more advanced European countries is backward. Evidently, much more steps need to be taken, but it is a bill which in a very concrete way adopts modern social measures. This bill is social policy in practice. And I will mention, very briefly, almost six basic regulations in the bill, which prove what I said. What are the main arrangements for this bill? First of all, the regulations on child protection and the prevention of child abuse. What about this arrangement? We are introducing a strict framework to eliminate child abuse phenomena, which are hosted to child protection bodies, and we also provide for obligations by the institutions, but also sanctions against those who are illegal. What's wrong with that? We explicitly provide that someone who has been convicted of crimes against sexual freedom or domestic violence or trafficking in human beings and drugs cannot work in a child protection institution. Will you vote against it? Do you see it negative? Why are you developing in such an opposition? So the first part of this bill, which comes at the initiative of the State Secretary, Domna Michaelidou, is the provisions on child protection. Second prediction, are the provisions on pre-school education with the "CYPOLY". To this day there was an empty one. Do we have to close our eyes on preschool education issues? Should we say 'you're not bored, let's go as we've been up to now'? What did we do? What did the State Secretary do? After speaking to people of experts on the subject, children's developmentists, nursery teachers, professors specializing in these subjects, a leading Greek teacher at the University of Yale, Mr. Meyer, and having really taken into account the studies of the three-story "DIANEOSIS", came and brought this program "BYCHEL" into consultation with the Ministry of Education, which reforms the day-to-day operation of the stations by introducing modern teaching methods, with a view to developing children's cognitive, linguistic, social, emotional and mobility skills. What's wrong with that? Will you vote against it? In addition, this programme provides for the operation of an early detection mechanism for mental, learning and psychosocial difficulties by specially trained personnel with a view to the diagnosis and early intervention. And that bothers you? I have heard that you consider it a 'false' of children. But the badly trusted opposition has some limits at some point. It is a modern program that covers a gap and will obviously start piloting. Not all of these things can be done from one day to the next. But the fact that it is innovative comes and that its inclusion in the relevant Community programmes, the recovery fund, obviously because the European Commission, which examined it, has seen that it has added value. The European Commission does not know either. It is my institution and Mrs Michaelidou, the European Commission. I wish we had such great abilities. Third intervention, after children's protection and pre-school treatment under the "CYPSHILE" programme, is dehydration. We are moving on to the creation of semi-autonomous housing for young people over 15 years. Do we really want them to be inside the foundations? To be forever in the foundations? Is it not a measure that should go ahead? Should there not be unanimity from the right to the left in this Chamber on this measure? We help our young people by providing them with an environment that is similar to family, in order to integrate them more easily into society. Fourth intervention: Promoting the institutions of assumption and adoption. Here - I must say, I do not have to hide it - in this area, as well as in the area of admission and adoption, initiatives were taken by SYRIZA and by Mrs Fotio personally. Why should we have micropsy? We have come and strengthened them with a plan that went further than that. And here, we are even stronger in the institution of assumption and the role of the social advisers, we are broadening the age limits of the candidates and we are critical of this: 'Why are you broadening age limits'? Because we do, ladies and gentlemen, what the Citizens' Counsel has recommended and what UNICEF, the international organisation for the protection of children, has told us. That's why we're doing it. Fifth measure: ‘Personal assistant’ for disabled persons. Here I understand that you are not opposed. Mrs Fotou said earlier that Mr Tsipras had come out in February of '21 and adopted these measures. Very well. We move in this direction, pursuant to Article 19 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, are establishing the 'Personal assistant', which is a constant request for the disabled movement, and we are once again integrating this measure into the Recovery Fund. I have heard Mr Mulkiotis, if I am not wrong - I hope I do not blame you - or one of the speakers said - perhaps Mrs Fotou - that you will only bring a few personal assistants here, while the disabled in Greece - have been said - is a million. So, you're indirectly suggesting but clearly we have a million personal assistants. What I want to say to you, from the control we have done, is that in Germany today, the most powerful state in the European Union, there are two thousand personal assistants. In any case, we are also piloting here, with the support of the European Commission, so that Greece can be Europe as well. Again, I would expect there to be support for a measure that starts, cannot be completed from one moment to another, but it has funding, it has the support of the European Commission and it is a measure of common sense. Therefore, measures on child protection, pre-school education measures, disincorporation measures, promotion of institutions of admission and adoption and for disabled persons by the introduction of the ‘Personal assistant’. In closing the chapter on this sector, I would like to congratulate Mrs Michalidou and the Secretary-General, Mr Stamatis, on the work they have done on this bill. And I would like to add another provision concerning the so-called 'neighbourhood dads', a provision that comes at the initiative of the other State Secretary, Maria Syregella, which is also a very important provision accompanying this bill. The "Dadas of Neighbourhood" was our pre-election announcement. We come and implement this announcement. The 'Neighbourhood dadads' are a measure which also applies to other European countries, it will be supported, once again, by the European Commission, through the NSRP, since it is implemented pilotically and concerns infants between two months and two and a half years old. It works in addition to baby-care facilities. It will start piloting from some municipalities and will meet the needs of some families. So you'll feel good when you've voted against this provision and some mothers, some fathers will have where to take their children, workers, family members, and you'll be across the street? We will have voted for this on our own, and you will say 'no, we do not want it'. And let us call it a thousand studies, let the European Commission support it, let Greek society want it. Very well. I have told you once again that with such opposition you are our political donors. I am also encouraging you to continue in this direction. I cannot bear to say - because someone should note this because it has been done with the hollow slogans 'you are supposed to be an abstract, neoliberal' and so on - that we, in your opinion, are annoyed that we have established the birth allowance of 2 000 euros for every child born, another of our programming commitments. We are the ones who have put into operation - following your own initiatives - the Single National System of adoptions and Responsibilities. We are the ones who extended the number of beneficiaries with subsidised access to nurseries. Yes, there are some fifteen thousand children today more than in 2019. We are the ones who converted the "House and Work" programme from a programme to a permanent public policy. We're the ones who took a series of additional measures for the Roma. We are the ones who, in the time of the pandemic, proceeded with a package of financial support of EUR 8 billion for three million workers and the unemployed. We are the ones who increased by 22% the funds for social protection in 2021, amid adverse conditions for the economy and the budget. We are also the ones who, in addition to the measures that I have told you, adopted the EUR 2 000 for each child - a series of other regulations which can only be described as social ones, such as an increase in the tax rate to EUR 1 000 for every child, a reduction in VAT on infants from 24% to 13%, the expansion of funding and income criteria for voucher for nursery stations. And, lastly, we were, of course, the ones who unblocked the intake - and the procedures have started - two thousand and ninety special categories of people in the wider public sector - multiples, disabled and so on. All of this, you know, it's a lot to hide through a tiny opposition speech. It is a social policy, for which we are not quarreling. It's our obligation. That's what our conscience says. It is our programme commitments and it is a policy that we must continue with, because - as I have said before - Greece is far behind, but it is the social policy applied, which all the beneficiaries, who are our fellow citizens of various categories, are obviously in need - and we support it in their daily lives. So stay with your petty confrontation. We will remain with this policy, inspired by modern European and international practices. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak about the amendments and call for the Bureau to be indifferent. The rapporteurs spoke twenty-one or twenty-two minutes etc. I would like to focus on two amendments, because the State Secretary responsible will also come and will talk again about the 'neighbourhood dads'. I am going to speak about the amendment that has a trunk of the OAED and I shall also speak of the SYRIZA amendment, which Mrs Xenonanakopoulou has already presented to us. In relation to the OAS amendment, I would like to say that it is a modernist intervention that we are doing, in order for the organisation to work more quickly, more efficiently and above all for the benefit of the workers and the unemployed. We are improving the structures of the OAED, especially the employment promotion centres, in order to operate more organised and in close contact with businesses. And here I would like to point out that this is the first time that this agency has started organising the self-evident: career days, to bring business and the unemployed, basically. It has recently started in Thessaloniki and I encourage the commander to move much further and more actively in this direction. In the same context, we are giving new, modern tools to better match the profile of the unemployed with the needs of the labour market by putting on new foundations the institution of the labour consultants and also focusing on the individualised approach, the targeted analysis of the characteristics of the unemployed by qualified labour consultants and finally the drawing up of the individual action plan for each of them, while at the same time promoting the method of group advisory services by both workers and employers. At the same time, we are formally establishing the special unit for small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to ensure that there is a link between supply and demand, between the needs of businesses and the needs of the unemployed. They are administrative interventions, but they lay the foundations for a more modern and more effective OAED. Within the provisions relating to this amendment, there are provisions relating to fifty marks. Indeed, we are bringing this provision for workers in tourism and food. It's a similar arrangement to last year. I have heard the comments from both Mr Mulkiotis and Mrs Xinogiannakopoulou and the rapporteur of the JRC and, taking into account these comments, they will then come to a legislative improvement. I would like you to allow me, Madam President, to close with the SYRIZA amendment in relation to the platforms. First of all, I want to remind you what SYRIZA had done for the platforms. SYRIZA for platforms, when falling down from power, had merely arranged for employees. He's left the rest of the regime unregulated. He's tolerated it, though. It also left freelancers - who today do not want to see them - and the employees at the same time, and even facilitated the freelance partners, the freelancers, with the arrangements which they had voted on in Law 4509/2017, and even in Article 55 here - with which it made the title more attractive and effectively closed the eye on the part of the free partners. This is what SYRIZA, who today tells us "the spot of man" and accuses the New Democracy. Also, SYRIZA who appears as a worker defender will be good not to forget these images. For example, I've brought with me some papers. One post is from May 25, 2017: "Without deliars today, strike and concentration on the Mars Field". They have been on your day, now that you are getting out of your clothes, for you can only support all these people. You had the opportunity to do it for four and a half years. You kind of forgot. For example, I have another post - I have much more, I do not want to tire you - next year, Thursday, 1 February 2018: "Argoroupoli, event - motorbikes to deal with employers' terrorism". If I'm not mistaken, February 1, 2018, SYRIZA was in government. And we come, who sell it all out and destroy it all before the world, and above all with our voters, who want to lose them to give them away, and what have we done? We have brought Law 4808 which gives new rights, new rights to people working in this area, particularly those who are freelancers. Because we, not you, have given them the right to trade. We gave the right - we, not you - to strike. We have adopted regulations concerning the obligations of companies on the health and safety of all these workers and on their personnel. We 'explained' have brought this up, and you'sensitive' have done exactly the opposite or far less than what we have done. And, of course, we have defined in this law four criteria which need to be applied cumulatively all four to be considered as a free partner and not to be tricks from these platforms and companies that exist in this area. If you disagree, I have two articles here. I'll testify to the Minutes. She's from two lab professors. In fact, I don't know if I missed it, but I didn't see any engineer supporting your own opinions. Here is Mr. Yiannis Lixouriotis, who clearly says in "KATHMERINI" on Sunday: "So, the specific atom of this platform deliverory was used for anti-government koruna and for the development of general theories on slave-driven digital platforms". After saying about the provisions of the Hatzidakis Act, it adds: "These provisions, not only did they provide a more favourable legal environment for the development of the freelancers phenomenon, but they have very limited the possibility of predatory use of this form of employment by digital platforms". We also have the assistant professor of Labour Law at the Athens School of Law, Mr. Kostis Bakopoulos, who writes another article the other day in protagon.gr, in which, inter alia, states that "the law also recognises in this category the rights of collective organization and action, the setting up of trade unions, the right to negotiate and conclude collective agreements, the right to strike, gives them the same health and safety coverage as for employees, extends to them special protective arrangements, etc.". It concludes: 'In fact, all collective labour law and health and safety legislation are extended to non-employers'. If you do not have enough of what Mr Lixouriotis and Mr Bakopoulou are saying, I would like to say that the arrangements that we passed in June apply throughout Europe without exception, except for Great Britain for UBER - but only for UBER - and Spain, in which the relevant Council decision was taken in the summer. Watch out now what happened. On 21 July the Spanish Parliament adopted what you are proposing today by means of the votes of the Socialists and the Podemos. On 30 July, nine days later - I will say names of companies, not to say that I am saying them in my mind, and I would ask you to check them - the 'DELIVERO' announced her departure from the country and the abolition of three thousand freelancers, GLOVO maintained just two thousand out of 12 000 freelancers and UBER EATS abolished all jobs, preferring henceforth to revert exclusively to the work of external contractors after this arrangement. Labour corporations! In other words, some people have become contractors and many more with the regulation that you propose today have become unemployed. I have them here, I'll give them to you in the Minutes. I also have here reports from BLOOMBERG, which say it about 'ni' and'silence', and which also have personal testimony of people who worked and say what they suffered from this wrong regulation. Isn't "BLOOMBERG" enough? I have the publication of "EL PAIS" in English. In this picture they are workers who have lost their jobs and are protesting against this supposedly amicable law that you are proposing today. That is, to adopt him, to adopt your regulation so that we can drive people to unemployment and then move our fingers again, because you obviously have an excess of nerve. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You'll control us. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] These are the workers who are protesting against the Spanish law, which is exactly what you are proposing today. Workers who lost their job. And of course here another post from 'REUTERS', which says exactly the same thing. I also have a series of postings on social media that say: 'To God, do not change this regime, because it serves us, because there are those who really care about being employees, and others who do not want to be employees, because their planning leads them to being free partners. Because it is more flexible if necessary, they can work part time, they can take more money in some cases, etc.." So let us respect what everyone wants and let both sides work, employers and employees, with the new trade union framework that we have created, by giving new rights. And, as was done in the case of 'e-FOD', it can work here and there, but by giving the framework of the choices that exist throughout Europe, rather than applying these precarious methods, which, as I have shown you in Spain, lead to exactly the opposite results. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to mention once again the Hatzidakis Act - which you will abolish, of course, after having voted for fifty-five articles, half of which - in a reply which has not been released too much - by the Community Commissioner for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Schmidt, who, in reply to colleagues in the JRC, I would ask you in August last year in relation to this law which you are appalling, says the Commissioner responsible: 'The protection of workers' rights is guaranteed in the European Union'. ‘... Based on the information available to the committee, Law 4808/2021 follows international good practice and implements the social acquis of the European Union, as well as Directive 2019/1158 of the European Union on the balance between professional and private life for parents and caregivers’. If you have not read it, especially the JRC colleagues, I will put it in the Minutes to see what the relevant Community Commissioner, who is also our institution and we use it to distort the situation. You have gone, you have asked about this law and you have been answered that this law is in line with what is happening in other European countries and with Community legislation itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u48	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u49	And one last stereo. We who "done" Greece, with today's figures, which EUROSTAT announced a little while ago, have restricted unemployment from 17.3% that we received from you in 2019 and after the coronary crisis, at 13.2% at the end of August, four points below.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u50	These are quarterly...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u51	I repeat. We are not proud of this, we are doing our job by following Europe's path, but I expect you, if anything, to have less courage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Skourletis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u53	Madam President, I have asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u54	Mr Skourletis has asked for the floor very early, from the previous President-in-Office. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, your apology, the Hatzidakis apology, I don't think it can convince anyone. It cannot be persuaded first of all of the workers in 'e-FOOD'. Really, why didn't you come out the other day, when they were flooding the streets, tell them that you're defending their rights? Why don't you tell the 40% of the 'e-FOOD' clients who abolished the application that they were wrong, because they will create new unemployment, lose jobs? Why don't you tell the company itself, who had to suffer from a mobilisation in the private sector? And that is very important because it sends a signal of optimism that yes, workers can win even when they have a neoliberal, anti-social government like yours. Why don't you say that? This regulation, contained in your bill, is a regulation which is part of the further deregulation of the market. Savings are called by the lawyers. You want to limit waged employment relationships and what that means to workers and their rights within the workplace and in general. That's what you tried to do. Did you really discuss your argument before you presented it to us with Mr. Brutsi? Because he himself has given answers in the opposite direction of your own provision, which obliges workers to prove what our previous legislative framework and Mr Brutsi's replies were saying, that a wage-based employment relationship is being concealed. That's what you did. And you come to tell us here about examples of different platforms in Europe. It is a good thing that you have admitted that this framework of work is already in force. Except I don't understand if this platform, in the belief that it's in the interest of it, leaves the country, will people stop ordering it? Does the platform create him? We could specifically discuss the dominant position that it takes between workers and businesses who pay a great deal of money on these platforms. But let go of that. It's another conversation. We can get out of here. You here are defending, once again, first and foremost and you are unique in Europe on an equal footing. That's your policy. That is exactly what you are serving, not only in this area, but also in too many other areas. I mean that SYRIZA for these workers had voted for provisions that for the first time forced companies, regardless of their employment relationship, to provide them with personal protective equipment, to record the machine framework number and to have an obligation, beyond their wage, to bear the costs of the service. So these mobilisations that took place at that time in a direction of support for the government's initiatives were indeed in the face of employers' arbitrariness. Because we were not the government of employers' arbitrariness. You cover it where you stand and where you are. You spoke to us before about various things, like the concept of some social measures and benefits starts in July 2019. Who? You who are the fathers of the humanitarian crisis in Greece, who left thousands of infantry students, and if Mrs Fotio did not exist with her school-leaving policy, we would have lived even more tragic situations. We who doubled the benefits to children's stations. We who have voted for two-year compulsory pre-school education. I don't expect you to speak the language of truth. Besides - without really having anything to do with you, whoever you have in terms of a sympathetic profile, but with your policy, I have too much to separate, I feel completely opposite - you are the man of the missions. Another special mission you started in the energy sector to come to us at the moment, Minister, and celebrate your government that it has made the biggest privatisation in the field of energy networks in the TEN with 2.1 billion, trying to build a new private monopoly. But be careful, at the moment who bought, who invested 49%. It is a fund that had nothing to do with the energy companies, which also operates contributions from workers from other countries, and came to achieve a stable yield of 6.72% a year. What a better job! Where does the scandal begin now, Minister, and I would like you to comment on this. The scandal begins when the contract itself - which remains to be approved, I do not know if it has already been approved - says: The minimum of the distributed profits of the dividend that the TENs will pay is 95% of the profits of the previous year. Therefore, any investments which, in order to serve, were necessary to indirect privatisation, will not be made by profits resulting from the operation of the company, but only by borrowing. That's great! So make sure that I have 20 to 30 years of what this company wants, 6.7% return on my capital, and I'll be insured that every year I'll also get a minimum dividend of 95% on the profits. Because there's no way the DATA won't win. Is that what it's called? It's called a scandal with your signature, with the signature of Mr. Mitsotakis, with the signature of the Government of New Democracy! You have privatised the natural gas network, the ‘INFO DEVELOPMENT’. And as a response to all these questions, you come to complete this strategic crime at the expense of the country's energy policy, at the expense of society and of the public interest by increasing PPC's share capital. Except, Minister, because the public holds 51%, on what reasonable basis do you deny, even in business terms, the holder of 51% does not have the right to participate in the increase in equity and consciously decide to reduce his participation? Which other company is this happening in the private sector? You who want to operate in terms of private, free market! The free market is for the few, for your friends, for the continents. It's not for the Greek State! It is not for the interests of the Greek people, who see the accuracy of hijacking, who at its core has the launch of energy tariffs. The art of lying it very well serves what you have said in the last days about PPC. The PPC we received with 5 billion indebted and made 4 billion, PPC you refused to invest in the profitable sector of RES, PPC that you overdebted, because you increased your tariffs by 40% in a moment of humanitarian crisis, barbaric political austerity, and the world could not repay and have been forced and overlapped. And you're coming right now, through a lot of nice big words, to give these to specific economic interests. Because the concept of public interest for you is foreign. So, what tools will the state intervene, if not through a publicly controlled company in the field of energy to create precision-saving conditions? What tools? With what you're selling out, with what you're renounced with? Why have you not done control over the wholesale energy market in so many months when you know very well that there was huge profit margins? Why is RAE and the Competition Committee not interfering with the real costs of companies and how much did it ultimately sell to suppliers? Why, at the end of the day, should all the energy produced be rewarded with the limit value, the greater, regardless of whether their costs are much lower? Why in the package of measures at the moment when you say about the reduction of EUR 30 per month in the accounts, are intervention on the special tax side outside your horizons, as a number of European countries are currently doing so? When prices get on top of them, it's hard to deviate. We know that by March, demand will increase in oil, gas, fuel and gas. Are we gonna stop her? Are you interested in small and medium-sized enterprises or in your design? Is it another reason to unravel off with the weakest link, even using the energy crisis that exists at the moment, to fly out of the market for other small and medium-sized enterprises, because you believe in the strong groups that serve them in an anti-competitive context that shrinks the rights of workers? A glamorous example of that of 'e-FOOD'. So this is your policy of giving public rights to private individuals, we have seen it in the case of the PPA. There was a roll-call vote. 16% went to the Chinese 'COSCO' while it did not implement its contractual obligations. You did so in the case of 'EL DORADO', which has specific obligations for the verticalisation of its production. You changed the contract. So what does this have to do with the public interest? What government are you? Put yourself a title. Who do you represent? How can you look at the Greek people in the face of the fact that you said you believed in growth, jobs and security? What security does the worker have when he sees himself hanging on wood, when his rights are shrinking, when the AS reserves are gambled at the same time to satisfy certain economic circles again, are you preparing to charge the Greeks with 70 billion? Because that's what the project wants. We have discussed these things before to base the transition to the new health system. Some things must therefore be said by their name, as they are. At the beginning of your speech you referred to the vaccination programme and made another mistake, of what we now see every day on behalf of the government. You said smiling about political forces stepping on two boats on the subject of vaccination. Fortunately, Minister, you have almost all but the ambiguity of Mr Velopoulos' party. All the others have supported the need for vaccination. Imagine it was different. Your own failure by an ineffective, inefficient persuasive campaign will not be charged to the rest - you cannot do this - nor your uncertainties and your omissions. Eight and a half thousand students are the active cases right now from the day the schools opened. On what terms, under what conditions did the schools open? Was there even a new room? Did you move towards the dilution of the student population? No, you didn't. You know to celebrate, but trying to change the agenda to other issues. However, the priority of supporting the public health system has left it aside. Some things put life itself in place and we need to be placed. So, today, I would expect a second day of incidents in Thessaloniki - from Stavroupolis they have gone to Evrosmos, today Evosmos, is what is happening in Stavroupolis - from government representatives not to have this attitude of Pontius Pilate, of equal distances to chrysaustism. But, of course, that explains the position of Mr. Bogdanou, Mrs. Kerameos, who saw nothing, did not understand anything, Mr. Syrgyrgos who only saw violence outside, did not see in it. They're all over the internet. They've flooded the internet video showing people with black clothes greeting Nazis. Stop fishing in the far right tank for a few votes. Do not even do so in the majority of your constituents, who are not far-right. This cohabitation now and this new identity that exists is dangerous, slippery. Because we do not want a large party like New Democracy to flirt with the extreme right, to have people in it who preach racist hatred, intolerance. Take your distance. So what's that? The notes of all those who went up to the buffalo with the headlines at the time of the adoption of the Prespecies Agreement and return them or so try to avoid the need to finally vote on the conventions with Northern Macedonia? You won't avoid that. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I very much agree with the point made by Mrs Canelles in one thing that must be a common place. The social state must be universal, it must be a priority, it must be based, we must find money. There is not only the money for equipment, there is also the war that is active. The pandemic war is a reality, not a possible war. In this war, then, money must be thrown away. It's a priority. So the social state is for everyone. It is not a state of charity or mercy. On this, however, I think I am asking for too much to understand, because we really are two worlds here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u57	I will be brief, Madam President. I would like to note first of all that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said no word about the bill. This makes me conclude that he understood the political recreationalism and the micropsy of his party's rapporteur - politically speaking about micropsy - who refused this bill - he said that he would vote against it - while the bill only has positive provisions that enhance social protection for children, for the disabled, etc. Secondly, with regard to the 'e-FOD', which was the only issue to discuss today's draft law to which it has been referred, I would like to say that obviously we, from the outset, have made it clear as a government and as a ministry that we were and are against such unacceptable practices. And all employers in Greece need to know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u58	We shall vote in favour of the amendment. Remove your order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u59	Let me just say to you: healthy entrepreneurship is another thing, and other practices that bypass the letter and spirit of laws. So in these unfair practices we are and will be against, because we want to be a government of all Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u60	Was that an unfair practice? Say it so we can hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u61	From now on, Mr Skourletis has questioned nothing of what SYRIZA was doing when it was a government, what new rights we have brought for workers on the platforms, what is going on in Europe, how what we have brought as a regime applies to all European countries except Spain, and when the regulation currently proposed by SYRIZA has been passed here, shut down operations and lost jobs of poor people in Spain. This was not questioned because they obviously showed reports, I showed statements, I showed how the situation actually has and not everyone's head. All he found to say - I have this particular document here, I did not use it all - was what SYRIZA from time to time invokes Circular Brutsi, as it says, November 2020, according to which there was supposedly another spirit at that time and another spirit then with me as Minister. Except he either didn't read it or he also participates in the conscious misunderstood of the world. For here in the conclusions of the Brutsi Circular, it is stated that according to the nature and characteristics of the work or service provided on a case-by-case basis, it may either confer on the nature and characteristics of the work relationship, in which case the persons are covered by the insurance scheme of e-ECA or the nature and characteristics of the provision of independent services as a free profession, in which case the persons are subject to the ECAA regime. That is what the law has been passed with me, Minister. And then because he was considering a particular case, it seems that in the specific case where he examined the characteristics of work he was a worker. Please stop afflicting Greek citizens with fantasies and completely false things and regardless of the substance. Mr. Skourletis, as he obviously could not say anything about these provisions, was simply consumed in his position to tell us about energy. I don't know if it was the best example. Because the world remembers that PPC was on the brink of bankruptcy, that the sworn accountant with the signature of the administration was already saying that since spring 2019 PPC was ready to close. I've submitted the sworn accountant's report in the Minutes and if you can question it. People know PPC's share was then launched in the air. The world knows that PPC is an example of success, and the world also knows that at the TEDO right now an alliance was made with a very large strategic investor with PPC collecting EUR 2.1 billion for its funds. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm hanging up, I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u62	Please, ladies and gentlemen. He's responding to what Mr. Skourlet. I don't understand why this fuss is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u63	He said Mr. Skourletis shares 95% of dividends. So let me tell you that the agreement stipulates that dividends are distributed after investments and depreciation have been made. The dividends shall be divided, in accordance with the contract which is to proceed, into the draft contract after the investment project has been fully respected. And I'll also remind you why you've obviously confused them, even though you were in the ministry that dividends are shared with the shareholders. And a shareholder there at the DEDDIE by 51% will be who? PPC!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u64	No, at 34% you're taking her. You're fucked there!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u65	In other words, even if what you say is not true - the money is still going to a large proportion to PPC. But stop talking about privatization. Because while you were a government, you privatized 66% of the TEC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u66	Samaras did this!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u67	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u68	And you were the one who privatized and 25% of IPTO. So I'm not bothering you by the DESFA, you're not bothering IPTO who's networks, you're bothered by the DEDDIA because we're government. Yeah, we're government. We privatized and privatised 49% of IPTO. We will proceed with the increase of PPC's share capital, creating a new landscape for both PPC and energy in the country. This will also be for the benefit of the country and for the benefit of consumers. Because consumers can win not from subordinated organisations and companies, but from organisations and companies that have dynamism, such as the new PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u71	Mr Colleague, I'll give you the floor for a minute. But I'm going to beg one thing. Because the bill is completely different from what we are discussing at the moment, you will allow me to make a comment. Let us confine ourselves to the bill and discuss it, because so long I can see that the Minister answers a completely different thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u72	That is the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u73	The amendment, Madam President, is along with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u74	Good. It is also the amendment, but I would ask you to move on. Please very much. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to refer to Circular Brutsi first of all. It says that if, in the light of the circumstances of each particular case, the distinction between dependent or non-working is in fact difficult, the anticipated anticipation of a fightable presumption in favour of a dependent labour and the submission of the job to the insurance of the applicant is applied. That's what you reversed. That's what you overturned. Secondly - and I am ending - the IPTO is an aggressive move in favour of the country's interests. It remained in the public sector 51% when you were committed that 66% would privatise it, 24% belonged to the Chinese company and today implements the largest electrical interconnection projects in Europe. With us, beyond the DESA, which was a competition that was completed by Mr. Samaras, nothing else happened. Mostly - to tell you something that is of interest to the world - PPC's invoices did not increase a single euro. On the contrary, they were also mid-weighted when you increased them by 40% from 2012 to 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u76	The Minister has the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u77	For the information of the House, I will tell you that the article by Professor Bakopoulou, to which I referred earlier, has written in writing that what Mr Skourletis said about the notorious "fighting presumption of the Circular of Brutsis" is not the case. That's exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u78	The House decides, Minister, not Mr Bakopoulos. The House is legislating.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u79	The law protects workers. The fact that with us in the government the workers of 'e-FOD' gave their struggle and succeeded shows that the law, a modern European law in force in almost all European countries, gives them the right to claim their rights. Madam President, I am tabling the documents referred to above for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Mr Loverdos is asking for a short-day leave from 1 to 5 October 2021, as well as Mr Harris Theocharis is asking for a short-day leave from 2 to 6 October 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u81	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, now has the floor. Let me tell you a little bit about the series of speakers, then Mrs Asmakopoulou will take the floor from the Greek Solution. The following is followed by Mrs Adamopoulos, shortly after the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis, Mrs Anagnostopoulou and immediately after the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think you were absolutely honest in your position. You told us straight away and declared a complete inability to legislate or intervene - one could interpret it as subjection - in fear that if you agreed with another legislation, the companies would leave the country, we would have strikes, redundancies and job losses. Therefore, that is why you have not made any intervention and you are now fighting with SYRIZA all this time, saying that what happened was done, thanks to your own legislation, because you supposedly allowed workers to have a collective expression when they are negotiating, and SYRIZA says that with his own legislation on the basis of EKKA's circulars, Mr Brutsi's responses, but not with clear legislation, there was a fighting presumption in favour of a dependent job. However, the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the whole case of the 'e-FOD' workers has returned because there was a universal and mass reaction of civil society. And that is, of course, a bell for the deficiency or subjection, as Mr Hadjidakis admitted today, of the political system to be able to operate in the interests of the workers, when there are procedures of employers' arbitrage or threat of exiting from the country, so that they can put workers as a shield. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Of course, Mr Hatzidakis accused us of opposition micropsy and brought in as an example the issue of vaccinations, not accepting the overwhelming responsibilities of his own government, not accepting the micropsy of government officials coming here in this Chamber seeking to create tensions with anti-population officials who probably came out with statements contradictory or ambiguous and politicised an issue either in this Chamber or in the media, trying to obtain political benefits and reflexing that only the government is in favour of vaccinations and everyone else does not support the effort, so "We defend public health as a New Democracy and everyone else is against it". This has finally led to the very opposite results, and today the Government is not prepared to admit that, with this polarisation which has caused, not only by this politicisation, they do not take advantage of the fact that the vast majority of the Parliament's wings are in favour of vaccination and have received a clear signal and supported this effort, but we see that a perception of the country is being established. Instead of getting the scientists out, the government seeks polarization and confrontation. Instead of making the scientific community and doctors convincing with arguments the large proportion of our fellow citizens who, for various reasons, are afraid or have not been vaccinated, are trying to take advantage of any ambiguous statement just to gain a political advantage. But that's all Mr. Hatzidakis says? Obviously, Mr. Hatzidakis is not the only one saying. A moment ago, the Prime Minister at the "Athens Democracy Forum" said exactly the same thing, namely, that he considers that it was not supported by the opposition in an attempt to send a message in favour of vaccination! If possible, when we as a Movement of Change and all parties except the Greek Solution that has a ambiguous attitude, we have come out from the first moment not only in favour of vaccinations, but in favour of specific strategies in order to make this thing a reality and build the wall of immunity. However, because the Prime Minister also spoke of the Greek-French agreement in his current position, it is clear that we as a Change Movement, as the most authentic patriotic movement with established historically justified positions, are positive to this agreement that increases the country's defence power. It is an agreement that could have been activated at least a year ago, but even now, with a delay, it is good that the leadership of the Navy is being implemented and accepted for ships with air-driven capacity in the area and, indeed, of great scope. But there are a few small issues. I would like to believe that the next week when the debate is going to take place and the convention will also be discussed, these will be made clear. The first is that ship delivery and entry into the Navy will take place after 2025. In the next four years, then, we need to see how we are ready to respond to the Turkish challenges and prepare for them. The second is that in the context of the preparation and upgrading of the Hellenic Navy's operational capabilities, we do not have any specific information or information about what is going to be done with the modernisation of the frigates, but also with the corvettes. Finally, the third - which is important - is that the construction of the wells will not be done at the Greek shipyards, so there is no object and what you can see is not at all favourable to the Greek shipbuilding industry. I think that there should be concrete responses to the prospects, so that the know-how can stay in the country, but that thousands of jobs will not be lost. As far as the text of the agreement on the application of the mutual defence aid clause is concerned, I think there should be no broad interpretation or misinterpretation of when it is implemented and when it is applicable in any of us. It must be absolute for both countries and cannot be interpreted ambiguously. I say this because the government has unfortunately expressed views and opinions, such as that of the Minister of State months ago, according to which Turkey can do research beyond six nautical miles, so within the Greek exclusive economic zone. So, obviously, this Minister considered this not to be a violation, he probably considers that this should not automatically trigger the mutual defence aid clause. And I think that all Greek citizens will want to know about this possibility, what exactly this defence aid clause provides for, to know that this agreement is indeed a shield of our strength, in the event of a conflict with the neighbouring country, and why it should finally be clarified about the defensive doctrine and national line adopted by both Andreas Papandreou and Constantine Karamanlis and the next political leaderships of the country, that there is no question under negotiation, apart from the question of demarcation of the continent. This is the only point that can be discussed under international law. However, I believe that the intentions are good and the explanations will be given next week, so that there will be no broad interpretation at all. As I believe the government's intentions are good in the bill we are discussing today and it concerns a wide range of actions on social protection and social welfare. Of course, the objective sizes of social protection needs in our country today are inevitably conflicting with the objective sizes of the other available resources. A few million euros for pilot projects covering individual cases, a few cases in relation to the real dimension of the problem. Fernandez, for the institution of the "Personal Assistant" which will cover a thousand to two thousand people, when in total a hundred fifty thousand of our fellow citizens are beneficiaries of allowances, with a disability of over 80%, the government says that this figure is sufficient. I wish that this provision would apply, but it seems that the problem is much wider. We in the Change Movement are firmly committed to the values of social cohesion and social inclusion. Today, even, they need progressive policies that are universal in nature and cover all ages and all cases. This contrasts with the concept of the New Democracy that the welfare state considers to be complementary or poor relatives of its policy, limited to completely marginal public policies, stressing the so-called charitable characteristics of sponsorships or private contributions and, above all, considers self-regulation of the market for any social development and redistribution. That's on one side. On the other hand, the logic of SYRIZA, based on the governmental events of the past five years, has developed a bureaucraticly controlled centralised approach of impulseism, without social integration, with paternalistic and inefficient claws. For us, the welfare state is the implementation of the true freedom of citizens, through combined policy and cohesion, but also the reintegration, without caging into reasonable charity, networks of poverty and social exclusion. We believe in a framework of innovative and development policies, integrating women into the labour market, balancing professional family life, but also ensuring a high level of services and care for dependent people, in a policy that is coordinated by the actors and does not continue this fragmentation and institutional activism, with family support centres in each of the three hundred and twenty-five towns, who need to develop integrated social policy plans and have, however, increased responsibilities and increased resources for social welfare, with gradual demilitarisation - we have started this and we are pleased that it is still going on, that it will only have to be further intensified and extended - and that the institution of housing support for each category, such as elderly people, has been established. And I would like to ask the head of the Ministry of Labour this time. He remembers last year our fellow citizen with autism who was two days next to his dead mother who ended up with a coronary and found himself random? For this man and thousands of people who need support and assistance for their reintegration, but also their living, and who will at some point lose parental assistance and assistance, the state today does not have an integrated framework for support, reintegration and integration in society so that they can have a relative autonomy or proper support when they are left alone in this area and should also give a concrete response to this area. Of course all of this is judged by the choices and priorities. Even in the way the recovery fund is used, it is visible how the government treats social policy with an amount close to EUR 600 million, which is not considered sufficient to cover this wide range of issues that will demonstrate that there is a social cohesion net in our country, in view of both growing inequalities and enlargement. At a time when it invests in employment-producing social projects that shield the resilience of society in the post-Koronian era, this sign is absent from the government's policy and proposal. We insist on the need for a positive social sign clause and added value to social infrastructure, social inclusion and new flexible social care systems, the need for a social clause on employment for disabled and vulnerable social groups. On the issues of childcare facilities, it is very important, very important, that they are obviously at the core of the welfare state and it is extremely important for our country's social and educational policy to move to the best quality of our children's education. Experiences of children from preschool services, nursery and nursery stations have shown that in countries such as England, Finland that have good practice, they can exercise good influence throughout the evolutionary process. You, however, seem not to have taken into account both their comments and their proposals, nor do you even anticipate their institutionalised representation at the National Council for Pre-school Education and Education, and even in Article 46, you do not seem to have a substantial role to play in structures which have been so far, have expertise, experience and appropriate staff and are very useful in helping and contributing to an integrated and holistic programme of social care and, of course, proper pre-school education. It is right to introduce prevention mechanisms within child protection bodies, but there are many points which need to be clarified, such as training, and who takes it and, of course, what the training process is and whether it will only be entrusted to the implementing bodies. As is also the case with regard to the staff for disabled people, it is right that the proposal should, however, be incomplete because it covers a very small number of beneficiaries, so it should be extended to have real results. You brought the amendment to the neighborhood nannies. You did say and you are honest that it was your election commitment. Of course, we will soon close two and a half years in which the New Democracy is governed and almost no consultation has been held on this provision and on this political proposal from you. It did not even happen in the committee responsible. It came last night, shortly before midnight, surpriseing everyone, as far as the contents are concerned. In fact, while two years you have announced and prepared it, all you refer to ministerial decisions, as well as the bill that you say will be piloted in 2021 and universal in 2022 - we are in October 2021 - and you anticipate four joint ministerial decisions only on the amendment, and so in 2021 you say that there will be pilot implementation and in 2021 there will be universal implementation. That, Minister, is obviously not possible. We don't know if there are certified programs with the curators. Apart from the professionals you incorporate in, you could include, with appropriate training programs, and vulnerable social groups, such as our fellow citizens who are in pre-retirement status and could find employment, but by ensuring necessary building infrastructures and accommodation facilities and not just saying that we give a voucher to a family to choose a person to take care of children, without conditions and conditions, by comparing structures that already exist and have global programmes, not only pre-school education and protection, but overall education. So I think that is an issue that you need to rethink and have a holistic debate. Indeed, in the case of the 'Netherlands', you do not even see the participation in the preparation of ministerial decisions or the consultation of the National Council for Pre-school Education, which is now being established and will not even take into account the question of drawing up the contents for a very sensitive structure and provision, which is doubtful whether it will have the effectiveness you want and I imagine that we are all pursuing, because everyone is going to have an overall social protection programme. We agree that pre-school education reforms require a flexible framework, but in line with the long-term experience of Greek education institutions and infants and pre-school education, as well as adapted to the changing social reality. We are prototypes of PASOK in the implementation of such programmes and structures. We have linked our presence to the government and to the destabilisation and the compulsory incorporation into pre-school education structures of vulnerable social groups and the greater part of the Greek society, so that all children can benefit from these benefits and we are certainly positive in whatever steps they take in this direction. The Minister made sure to present the bill on five axes, making a return to government policy as a whole in his ministry. He did, of course, forget to tell us what has happened on the issue of the awarding of pensions which he himself had given to a personal bet, and he even brought five months ago an amendment which said that the process of awarding pensions would be speeded up. He has not told us about what has happened in this area of policy to hear from the citizens, to judge and compare what has happened, what has been said and what has been promised by the head of the Ministry of Labour. In any case, I do not think that a sensitive issue should be raised which could bring together the broad agreement and consensus of Parliament's wings, transformed into a field of communication policy, into a field of confrontation and polarisation only to gain temporary impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. Mrs Sofia - Iido Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, child abuse is a phenomenon that is unfortunately caused by many causes. It is next, therefore, that it is impossible to have a single solution for its control. The fact that the large number of its negative effects on children’s development is not only limited to infancy and childhood, but leaves its mark on their adult lives makes it even more imperative to deal with it. It should be noted that the actual number of abused children is much greater than the one presents. The vast majority of the incidents of child abuse or neglect will remain in knowledge of the child’s environment or of any person of trust and more will never be revealed to anyone other than the victim and the perpetrator. In fact, according to the greatest surveys carried out by the University of Manchester and the University of South Wales, which I will testify in the Minutes, children experiencing abuse or neglect are at least two to three times more likely to attempt suicide in their later lives. The abuse leaves its mark on the sensitive and vulnerable child soul and the parents first of all, as well as the wider family and social environment, must be alert, but also fully informed of the evidence of abuse so that they can intervene directly, quickly and effectively. The impact of the consequences on the life of abused children will also be determined by the existence of protective or aggravating factors. Of course, how can we talk about a genuine treatment of the phenomenon when the child protection officer appointed to each group of child protection bodies is chosen without specific criteria, because there is no reference in this regard, but will simply be the result of the choice of the director of the unit or the person running the child protection body concerned? Or when we talk about the fact that caring for staff in child protection bodies involves only specific crimes and not any crime? That is why we certainly need full transparency, and not, let us say, see the National Council for Pre-school Education and Education meeting at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or bring in opaque and photographic provisions such as that for mentors, which will be chosen on the basis of their qualifications and experience and taken over by works contracts. What qualifications and what experience? Are you keeping them from us? The Algeral impression is the provision that states that in the context of the "CYPHEL" programme with the detailed schedule daily and regular monitoring and evaluation of infants and infants on those stations will be enclosed, as it will be kept for each individual dossier. You say in general and vaguely that the station takes all necessary technical and organisational measures to protect personal data. What will these measures be? When you talk about protecting our babies and infants, you should be absolutely specific. Significant issues, such as the stations participating in the pilot project or the year in which the universal implementation of the "CYPSCH" programme is integrated at all the stations of the country, will be decided by ministerial decisions. As a whole, child abuse is a time-consuming phenomenon, it accompanies all historical periods and takes place in all societies in different forms. However, it has only been considered in the last few decades and the subject of research by the scientific community. The inability to detect abuses and incomplete recording of the incidents often poses problems that need to be eliminated. Societies with strong social cohesion must offer a protective effect by reducing the risk of violence even when family risk factors are present. Experiences of abuse and intense stress in the first three years of a child’s life can irreversibly affect the development of their nervous system by destroying millions of neurons and brain synapses. Damages caused by early childhood trauma have a negative effect on complex thinking, memory and behaviour, deregulation brain function and affect other systems of the body. Primary prevention should focus on institutions, the general public and children themselves, aimed at developing health and education programmes in schools for the preparation of children and their smooth transition to adolescence and adult life and mobilisation of the media. It should be vigilant and inform citizens of child abuse and its forms, as well as the promotion of health promotion programmes through cooperation between health services, welfare and education. Treatment and, as far as possible, elimination of the phenomenon, through legislative initiatives, by tightening penalties in cases of child abuse and the advisory therapeutic support for victims, should be an absolute priority. In Greece, the phenomenon of child abuse has become serious according to investigations that have been carried out but also to incidents that have been reported. Many scientists have dealt with this phenomenon, but they have not been able to give a substantial solution to the problem. A very serious issue, which we should mention every opportunity, is the issue of young Greeks and Greek women, about six hundred thousand, who left during the memoranda. Give the motives, opportunities and the opportunity to return back to our country, to the country of their hearts. We in the Greek Solution believe that substantial prevention strategies are needed and the necessary therapeutic interventions, once there is established abuse. However, they should be implemented with particular care, adjusted according to the particular characteristics of victims and the type of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. We shall now give the floor to Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 and then prepare the parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today will in reality bring far less positive changes than the ones the initiators of this bill are advertising. Enter some settings, "pilot applications" as you say, in relation to the staff assistant for disabled people, as well as the pilot program "CYPSHI", which concerns pre-school education students. So what you're telling us is that instead of the undignified, miserable and truly afflicted fellow citizens, who belong to the vulnerable category of the social fabric, instead of being sick in this category of citizens with positive and passive measures, what you turn around and tell them is that 'we find temporary solutions, we will see when we will give you the crumbs and talk about it again', with measures, as I said before, temporary nature to people with disabilities and to the families of the biopsy, one of which has just the second has access to public nursery services. If, of course, you were to go ahead with other regulations, either to sell another ECO to obey the recommendations of the Association of Greek Industrialists and Spiders, who would rub your teeth to stretch into the bed of Provrost and other workers, if you were to bring in a night arrangement for the imprisonment of the governors of banks and predators, if you were to buy freshmen and warplanes, there would not have pilot applications, there would have a large number of bills, with exhaustive descriptions, so as not to escape a single party or a perfect one. But when we are dealing with such vulnerable groups, what you are doing is moving into the logic of clandestineness and saying "not more permanent than temporary". In other words, when you are about to show your social face to social measures, you are applying temporary and sloppy solutions. As far as the bill is concerned, it is generally characterized by some analogies, generalities and fanafalism. Even the "BRUDE" programme has not even been attached as an annex to the bill to understand exactly what it is about. Indeed, what we understand is that the National Council of Preschool Education and Education will essentially be served by your own, whom you will appoint, always moving in the sphere of the very choice of "mother". Because we are talking about the prevention and treatment of child abuse in relation to this bill, it is so great that the prerogative you have for the abused children, who are preparing a nice bill from the Ministry of Justice in relation to the changes of the Code of Civil Procedure, where among other provisions it will provide that judges will be able to substitute the judiciary when they are making decisions in relation to the communication of the child and when the court cursor must judge when the other party, namely the other parent, violates a communication decision, because the child itself refuses to surrender to the malignant parent itself. This is your prevention of child abuse, come the court curator when he executes judgments and replaces the natural judge. Of course you also do the same with the pilot trials, which will effectively manipulate the judiciary and smack all the cases in general and vaguely. Another legal type. Finally, stop, because you are distorting the legislative procedure properly, with ministerial decisions, by authorizing provisions. Legislative body is the parliamentary body, not the executive. There is a clear distinction of powers. Stop this barrage of ministerial decisions, because we know very well that the authorizing provisions regulate in particular issues, more specific details and technicalities and not general issues. Therefore, the New Democracy Members should not squeeze this policy and avant it like the branchers of the government. Also, because we are talking about pre-school education students, I have to mention an issue that was discussed at the time of my question and which concerns pre-school education students. Because it seems that the ministers are complicating with the blue mayors and want to stack within frozen and claustrophobic containers - so much you care about pre-school children - pre-school children, not to mention the irregularities and the urban and opaque processes that have been followed by the municipality to issue the relevant authorisations for small-scale construction work. I mentioned all this. The Ministry looks the other way. However, he has committed himself to carrying out legality checks. I'll keep an eye on the Ministry's commitment. I will monitor whether it will stand up to the circumstances and will exercise this control over the irregularities that have been committed, because it will be called upon to present its views and before justice, before the Administrative Court, when the request for the cancellation of residents is discussed. So I conclude by making a reference, because it is about the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, to the distributors of 'e-FOD', who, following our solidarity and their own above all mobilisations, people of the biopale, who risk their health and integrity on a daily basis have shown that neoliberal tsamboukia do not work. So while you're trying, with various crowns nervous, to do the white, society has understood and who you are and who you ally with. You ally with 5% of just the toxic oligarchy, of which you are liar. That is why you bring bills that they indicate to you, while distributors were not yours to defend their employment rights, rather than slow down employers' arbitrariness. We shall nevertheless continue and be next to both the workers and the employees, and the pensioners, and to the unemployed, and to the young, and to the child, and to the mother, and to the disabled, in all the vulnerable part and not to the elite of the predator you serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u87	We will now give the floor to Mr Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Minister, you told the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman that you understood that he did not find a word about the bill as an approval or that he had, in any case, remained abstract. I tell you that I too will say very little about the draft law that we are debating today, as my previous friend, comrade and my companion Mrs Adamopoulou has said it in detail. Of course, Mrs Apatzides of our party had told her earlier. I will only tell you that all you legislate, Minister, would be happy news. Who can object to both the incidents of child abuse and the 'CYPSCH' programme aimed at developing the skills of our infants and infants, as well as the promotion of the institutions of assumption and adoption that have remained far behind? It is true that it is Golgothas to adopt a child in Greece and the regime needs to be modernised. Also, there are other provisions on semi-autonomous living in apartments of 15 and over living in child protection and care units that are neglected. I mean, new kids, teenagers. In all of this, no sensible and elephant human beings, I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, could object to any objections. All this would be so if we were to talk about a normal government that legislated and brought these laws to a vote. But don't all forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not talking about a normal government. We've been calling it open for a long time. We're talking about an anonymous company that legislates in the government's position. There's a name for the anonymous company. Its name is ‘Kyriakos Mitsotakis’. And when we talk about not government, but anonymous company, then all that I said is no longer very good news. On the other hand, they are a wonderful yet occasion for the distribution of public money and state resources to other people, to fewer, excellent friends of the government with a, of course always humanitarian and a small social wrapping. However, as our Chief has said and I repeat briefly, at no point in your bill, Mr Hatzidakis, does not specify the costs and costs, while detailed explanations, such as, for example, the level of employees' payroll, go to future joint ministerial decisions. Nothing is clear about where you get the money. I'll say after you find the money. But that's too blurred. There is only one clear mention, which, in our opinion, is very important, Mr President, from the statement that funding will also come from the miracle! - from state resources and the Recovery Fund. Now, unanswered fatal questions are born. If we add this expenditure, Mr Hatzidakis, to all the others that your Government has so far - the anonymous company 'Kyriakos Mitsotakis' - has promised that they will be covered through it, namely the Recovery Fund itself, two are the possible scenarios. The first is that they will, of course, overcome all the possibilities that we as a Recovery Fund have in place. So I'm just Greek, you know, you're actually working for us. You feed rabbits with rocks. Otherwise, you'll take care of those little things that aren't enough for everything you've got, to split them up from here and there. Who? The ones that will have left out of sharing in the excellent, parasitic oligarchs. The result, of course, is that they will do all these new structures under-financed before they are even set up. They will by definition be underfinanced. I will not talk about this draft law above all because there is something extremely worrying, which for us is more important than any draft law that we would be voting on today or another day in this Parliament. Mr President, we set up the MARA25 and before we had established Diem25, for two main reasons, which are actually the same reason. It is the reason for the immediate risk of the post-modern repetition of the 1920s, of reliving neo-fascism and neonazism. That is the one, the main reason. Its past is to protect the unprotected after twelve years of memorialism that in a Parliament that is all memorial - apart from the Communist Party of Greece and us - we have the moral and political obligation to stand together and protect the people who you, all the rest of you have delivered to the memorials and Brussels. These two intrinsic problems start with a basic political idea and a diagnosis. We believe that by sporting and poorening hundreds of millions of citizens in the European Union and, of course, about 80% of the Greek population, the path of neo-fascism is widening. You hoped that with the ruling in the Golden Dawn trial, this road has been closed. We didn't hope. We knew. We'll let you know he's never closed. As long as the forces that sustain it are the impoverishment of the Greek people, the hunger, the impasse, and above all the total lack of prospective recovery, that is, a misery that leads to a larger misery that will eventually lead to an absolute misery, that's where they can hear all the neo-fascist deliriums, all the reasons that eat what you want to hear in populist and then, when they get to the point, do exactly the opposite. Yesterday and yesterday, the signs were extremely worrying, Mr President, Minister, Ministers. Yesterday and yesterday, the snake egg appeared again in our Thessaloniki. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll use my dentistry as well. It is still three minutes, Mr President, and I will finish. I'll leave you in peace. The snake egg is here, it is alive and we very much fear that the New Democracy Government - unwittingly I would like to hope, Mr Hatzidakis - ladies and gentlemen, that this snake egg preserves it. I want to hope I repeat her unwittingly. Why? To talk about the world he knows, of course, what happened yesterday. Yesterday, at the Stavroupolis PAPA in Thessaloniki, while students and students were sharing in the entrance of the foe suited to memory, on the anniversary of the male murder of Paul Bryssa from the Golden Dawn battalions, suddenly all-armed people came out. A lot more of them, of course. These unarmed people had knives, skeletons, loots and axes in a rare notebook that, with an invisible thread joining them with our Minister of Government, Mr. Vorides, who at his early age had not avoided the temptation to use axes. They bluntly hit the people who were just handing out fun. The most alarming thing you know is what it is? Worried that these fascoids exist and act, they didn't die and they didn't come out of the way. The most worrying thing is that two Undersecretaries of your Government, Mr. Hatzidakis, yesterday declared the following. Mr Syrigos said 'the first group', that is to say, as if we were dealing with two groups of the same plant - apologise for the expression - of the same person. The second was the Minister of State, Mr Makri, 'we condemn the violence from wherever it comes'. Excuse me, but this clearly restores the miserable theory of both ends. It's disgusting because it treats anarchists and leftists as members of criminal organizations, with fascists. They are not left-wing anarchists and leftists as are fascists. They're not criminals. They're politically thinking people who have an action different from mine and yours. So the theory of the two ends, which you bring back, cannot stand up because one end yesterday was handing out brochures and the other end was handing out axes and knifes. When, however, members of an end were arrested, the neo-fascist in their homes, guns and ammunition were found. That's what we all know. I shall now close, Mr President, with the observation that the theory of the two extremes - the lousy political theory, I repeat - is intertwined in the conscience and subconsciousness of the Greek people with your memorials. She's interwoven not by accident, but because you invented her every time to fight against anything you stole from our people. For two years now, however, you have been telling us that the memorials have ended, that the memorials have passed, that it is past and again to the glory of Greece. He's supposed to hear it, our economy is going to fly. So I say to you that the fact that you are bringing back the theory of the two ends in this way reveals that you are trying to cultivate the same climate as you will need to have it as you have to - and you are already applying - the fifth memorandum that is already here. Let me add that, Mr President, only. All this is happening more alarmingly when we hear that Mr Tsiaras is preparing to bring in a provision, an amendment next week that we will discuss the Criminal Code, which will say that anyone who is public or on the Internet is spreading or dispersing false news in any way that is capable of causing concerns or fear among the citizens, or of threatening public confidence in the national economy, in the defensive capacity of the country or in public health, is punished by imprisonment of at least three months, Mr President, and a financial penalty. If, in fact, the act is executed or executed on several occasions, at least six months' imprisonment. I have two questions for the ministers present. First, should it be a law of the state, what you will bring next week, should Mr Stournaras be in prison now? I mean our national banker. Because there is, I repeat, 'to raise concerns or fear among citizens or to undermine public confidence in the national economy'. Tell me you, who are ministers, what else did Mr Stournaras do when he told them that "the universe will collapse once Varoufakis begins the negotiation. Take the money and take it out." If your amendment is accepted, Mr Stournaras should go to jail three to six months at least. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Would you like to tell us what else is false or vague news from the Internet? Have you seen anything else on the Internet? There are 99% false, vague, confused news, conspiracy theories and 10% or 1% serious news. This has always been the case and you know it. So it is from the wicked one that it wants to devour all the defectors or those who are identified with them. You won't succeed with authoritarianism. Our Chief told you. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u89	We continue with Ms. Anagnostopoulos Athanasia from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. In the morning, when the meeting began, and speaking to the MPs, a New Democracy MEP congratulated the Minister of Education who appealed to the judiciary against all teachers, the federations of teachers, who are against evaluation and have declared a strike. So he congratulated her. I have not heard from anyone from New Democracy, not even as a suspicion, about the Ministry of Education, about the leadership, who found no reason to say, name, say by name what happened in Stavroupoli, what happened to fascists, nazis, who were also praised by the Golden Dawn youth. As long as the leadership of the Ministry of Education, as long as the political leadership, the New Democracy, does not name what happened in Stavroupoli and keeps an equal distance... It is disgraceful that the State Secretary for Education and Universities should say that 'we are condemning the violence from wherever it comes'. Violence came from the nazis. The second issue. Mr. Hatzidakis, you charged us with a pluralist time with misery, with prostitution, which you know, Minister, does not only receive the opposition. He has the Greek people. So you think we have forgotten in here and outside, and above all society, who is the Minister of Privatization. Did we forget about Olympics? Did we forget that when you were a Dedicated Anti-Population and then, once you took over the Minister of Energy, the attacks on PPC and what was PPC and PPC's depreciation? And you come here with that look? Explain two things, not with that look. It is not acceptable and it is not tolerated either against the Opposition or anyone. Fortunately, you have confessed, indirectly but very clearly, to the pressure of our Parliamentary Representative, that you will not vote for the amendment we tabled on the platforms, that people should be employees, workers, so that the platforms do not leave abroad. That's your problem, they're trying to protect you, and that's what you did with your law anyway. Well, when we talk in here, we'll talk with a little more respect and not with this poetry. You told us what you have done for the state of social protection and welfare. I won't be used because I don't have time or in numbers or anything. I'll say one thing. When we took over, Mrs Fotou had to face the disgrace for a Greek state of two hundred years, the highest level, the highest child poverty in that country. So we started from -10% in a country... This rate of child poverty was not only due to the crisis. It was long before the crisis, which shows that the welfare state was not working. Well, it would be nice to be a little more modest and a little more measurable when you talk about a few things. Let me say - in the least time I have now - two things about the bill. First of all, a general remark. You bring a bill, it seems that now favours you for communication reasons to change the agenda, on issues that are very sensitive, such as children, such as disability, etc. What's most of the bill? It's referred to CRAs. So, what are we doing here? What is the legislative role of the House? Shall we refer to CRAs? It is not possible, and it is not the first time, with the known results. But here we are talking about disabled people, talking about minors, etc. Do we give a white check like that? Very good, Mrs. Fotou said this was an empty shirt. I'm going to two, three points to each part. In Part One, which is prevention and treatment of abuse cases, etc., I would like to ask the white Criminal Register a guarantee for such sensitive structures, if we want to deal with and see what has happened to society? We have the outbursts lately, which leave no room for blindness. If there are no experts, with structured interviews, who will pass the candidates to work in such structures, can the white Criminal Register guarantee protection against such phenomena? Not to mention the examples we have had lately. I'll put it aside. Secondly, you say that from the structure - listen to us, listen to it and talk about it - a man will be appointed from the address, who works there, to confront children going and say if they had etc. A film, a literary work, haven't you read? Have you not read what happens to such structures, if there are no people outside who can gain the confidence of children, who are not afraid to be in power relations? I don't have to argue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the 'block' programme, here and now. In fact, you refer to a program that will be set by a CRA. A program that was uploaded since the summer of 2019, had the world's negative response, has come against the most important university departments in this country, the materially competent ones. You come here and you refer to CSIs on this totally sensitive subject. I won't say. Our rapporteur, Mrs Fotou, said so. But I'm staying on two things. We have a great cultural tradition, and not just social, etc. Can't we draw from there? Jesus, now! Why do we not take projects in which there have been processes since the '60s and '70s that were referring to developing countries - I have nothing against, to God, but now we live in another reality - and trust scientists and talk about them? Why such a hurry, in fact, with a C.T.I.E.L.D.? Each child has unique. You can't impose a horizontal program. We should have time to explain this, but the experts also explained it. We can't have a horizontal program. Of course, we are in favour of preventing various problems, learning and so on. But it can't be done horizontally. Most important of all, we also have digital communication of these things. We don't trust you. Once no one came out of the Ministry of Labour to condemn a Member who makes the names of minors public, we do not trust you that you will digitally protect the children. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u91	Complete, Mrs. Readstopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u92	I shall end, Mr President, because I know that I have been plentiful. But it is very important. I will not say about the institution of the "personal assistant" disabled. You bring this to a C.T.A. and this. I will only remain on the issue of decoupling with semi-autonomous living. Here again, will I trust a Undersecretary for which decoupling means I give cheap workers' hands to hotel units? Mercy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u93	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Mrs Arabatzi, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, will follow Mrs Karamanlis, Mrs Pulou and Mr Tsavdaridis. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Gregoryde, you're wrong. The theory of the two extremes is not a monumental structure, but is the official policy of the European Union, which seeks to equate socialism, communism and fascism. It is the European Union's official policy by decision. All governments, since it is official policy, implement it. That's the first. Secondly, it has been exploited at times, in order to confuse the working people's movement, the neo-Latin movement, and indeed, to acquit the action of the para-state, fascist, nazi and criminal groups. In this respect, the Ministry of Education's official attitude to the events in Stavrou is unacceptable. Both the Minister and the Undersecretaries kept these very distances and, in essence, they want to confirm that the Ministry is responsible for this whole year in the school structures for there to be gold dawn nuclei and other nazi organisations and other fascist groups. So it's foreseeable. Secondly, this unacceptable attitude of the Ministry is also confirmed by the action it has taken against the workers of teachers, namely, the whip to impose the anti-educational policy, for which the Minister, as he has said, finds - the acceptance of teachers, children and parents - such acceptance that is forced to resort to justice in order to strike the movement of teachers, parents and students. However, Minister, I should like to thank you for the reply you gave us in your speech, namely the Commissioner responsible, Mr Smith, if I am not mistaken - in relation to the question put by the JRC, his MEPs, for your bill. In fact, it is unnecessary to suggest that we study it. We took it out at the door of "RIZOPASTI", because it confirmed what they said about your bill, that your bill is the policy of the European Union. Let's tell SYRIZA and the Change Movement, who spoke about best European practices. The best European practices that you do with the bill are what the European Union Commissioner for Employment replied. So what did Mr. Smith say? He said that they were the good, best practices that they apply in the European Union, that is, they could work for up to thirteen hours a day. Unpaid overtime is best practice, elasticization of working relationships, contract work, work with the track, the conversion of employees into self-employed people on various platforms. This is all the social acquis of the European Union, which is dated. It is the date of Directive 2019/1158. This Directive was adopted on 20 June 2019 by a SYRIZA Government at that time. This directive was put in place by the European Union for the labour market where there was fundamentally working jungle conditions throughout the European Union. So what is confirmed by the response of the European Union Commissioner responsible, what the JRC denounces, is that the European Union with its policies is the precursor bed of labour rights. So whatever government comes, it will implement these European policies towards workers. That is why we say the JRC that the next government programme, whatever it is, whether central-left or centre-right, will implement these European Union best anti-government practices, because it is imposed by the competitiveness of business groups that crush labour rights, that is to say the growth of capitalist profitability which sacrifices the satisfaction of the people's needs in this altar. That is why the world is widening the gap between the potential and the level of satisfaction of the people's needs, which is why social inequalities are widening everywhere, because this is the 'iron heel' of capitalism. That's exactly what you legislate. In other words, you must legislate independently which party is in power for the needs of business groups at the expense of workers. Secondly, Mr Minister. You spoke about the workers on the platform in relation to 'e-food'. But here we also have the following amendment: SYRIZA is tabling a specific amendment. We said what SYRIZA did as a government. But we'll say what he's doing today, which is not government. We will say what the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Greek Solution are doing in the European Parliament. It's not a government. They have received a disgraceful report from the European Parliament on workers on the platforms. This obscure report says this: it considers that every solution must respect the status of workers on a platform that is truly self-employed. That is what the infamous report by the European Parliament, adopted by your MEPs, Mr Skourlet, has been passed by the PASOK MEPs and the New Democracy MEPs - a hand. He doesn't say to respect the employee, but the self-employed. This is what you have voted on in the European Parliament and now you are acting hypocritically to talk about these workers. If he is an employed person, he must resort to court to prove the wage relationship with that platform. This is what you are voting on in the European Parliament! And you come here and say more. However, if something showed up by this struggle of workers is the value of class struggle and the value of labor unions, which Mr Hatzidakis tried with the law to turn them into state and employers' unions without hope. From this point of view, this confirms the value of organised class struggle, because, of course, it was still a struggle in progress and there was no result. I remember Mr Varoufakis, who came here saying that the labor unions are outdated and the class struggle is over and that workers must find new forms - he says - of claim. Who are these? Cooperatives. What it says as a solution was seen in the European Parliament's report through cooperatives, i.e. through guilders, from returning to the nineteenth century. However, modern, what empowers the worker with power is his class club. You said, Minister, that a similar law was brought by Spain, so business is leaving. With this threat, you are trying to substantiate the workers, and here and everywhere, that if they claim rights, companies will close down. This is the threat you're trying to break the rights of workers. What does that confirm? Two things: Or the worker's head will fall and enter under a foreign flag or claim his rights, and he will also clash with this threat, both with employers and with the state of the employer. These two streets exist. So what you are saying, Mr Minister, is confirming the JRC's position that, in today's day, the rights of the working class cannot be justified and must be crucified and that only socialism is guaranteed for the rights of workers, there is a job with dignity that meets the modern needs of the working class, because in capitalism this is not going to be done. We are saying that what is needed today for an organisation of production and the economy, reflecting and responding to human needs, is raw materials, intermediate materials, infrastructure and machinery, that is to say, work that has been done in the past and that is the human work that will put them into practice. The capitalist doesn't fit anywhere, he's not necessary in the production process. Where is he needed? In stealing the workers ’ sweat, stealing the goodwill of the working class to increase his riches and worsen their position. So here is why we have to come to an end with this working class of employers, because not only does it not solve the problems of the people, but rather it runs on people's problems and needs to increase its profitability. Thirdly, there has been talk of the public interest and of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative in relation to what the PPC Government is going to do, but we are saying it clearly: PPC's privatisation policy and the liberalisation of the electricity market has also been implemented by the SYRIZA Government. The Government of New Democracy copys SYRIZA’s best practices in privatisation. May I remind you, Mr. Skourletis, what did you then do to recapitalise the banks? You forbid the public to participate. What was the result? Demolition of the shares held by the CFS. Isn't that how it happened? That's what New Democracy does today. He's copying you. It prohibits the State from participating in increasing PPC’s recapitalisation by reducing the State’s participation. What did you guys do differently? But at the bottom of the scripture, what is this public interest, which you constantly invoke? Will you tell me the address? Will you tell me who the public interest is? Is it something that's being eaten? Beware: We know that public interest in general and indefinitely does not exist. There is the interest in the working class and the interest of the employer that these two interests conflict and the urban state serves only the interests of the employer, only the interests of the economic oligarchy. In the name of this service it sacrifices the interests of the workers and often in a violent, authoritarian way attempts to trample those interests and rights. So a common interest in general and vaguely for everyone does not exist. Finally, I would like to criticise two - three key points in the bill you bring, Minister. Our rapporteur, Yiannis Delis, mentioned the bill in detail. First of all, what's the picture? It is that one out of four children lives in poverty, in impoverishment, does not have enough for food and its heat. When? In the 20th century, when the various majestics fight, who will go on a trip to the moon. Do you dare and say and accept the fact that 25% of the children in our country cannot cover what is necessary for food? Who's to blame for that? The system you serve and your policies have led to this result. It's not a manna from heaven, it didn't accidentally fall, it's not the evil of the roots" nor "the God who hates them". It is a result of your policies that all governments have implemented, but also of the system you are serving. Now what do you think? "To burn you, Yannis, to lure you oil." "To give you any allowance you can get away with it, to be able to survive." Who pays this allowance? Are the capitalists paying for it? No, of course not. The people pay this allowance. So what are you doing? You're redistributing poverty. The least poor, who still have a tax burden, to pay for the poorest and the capitalists to stay in the unavoidable. That's how you make a sharing of poverty. Also, are you proud of these results and are you fighting who will best implement subsidised policies to the poor and the excluded at the time of capitalist development? Are you proud that the European Union has a social face, because 25% of the new ESDP will go to the socially excluded? So what does the European Union say? For the next seven to eight years there will be a very large group of people at European level, which will not be able to cover the elementary, despite the growth rates being launched. Well, because we say that your development is a bloodthirsty growth, it's a hostile development for the people, that growth in the capitalist system. Instead of forming such a broad framework of nurseries, which meets the needs of all children with public responsibility, not by payment, which both public and private, but private nurseries serve only 50% of infants and infants - the rest cannot go, they cannot go, they do not exist in their place to go - what did you find to solve this problem? The neighborhood nannies. Soap opera! 'Daddy in action'. It reminds me of the TV show. I don't know if you know her. So you're gonna solve this like this? There are issues here. You'll give a pocket money to some women certified to keep the children at their home or at the child's house. So instead of creating real kindergarten structures that meet the needs to cover all the needs of the people's families, new couples, instead of saying that new couples will be allowed to see their children, that they will have a human hour to live with their children, you say about neighborhood nannies and you solved the problem with that fake card. Finally, that is the logic of decommissioning. You said, Minister, in the plenary I attended you that who wants to live in asylum. First of all, an asylum that no one wants to do with it. We do not defend these asylums, which really cannot give the necessary and what a child needs. Are you coming and saying that you're going to solve the problem with the decommissioning, kicking out the children from fifteen to seventeen years old from the asylums to go where? Residence. To do what? To be able to have strengthening, strengthening of skills and professional guidance, which may include, inter alia, developing skills, working advice and association with the labour market. But a child 15 to 17 years old wants to know, wants to go to school. You take it out violently and tell him "your future is only to gain skills and work experience". That is why you signed the infamous contract with the hotel chamber, so that these children can go as apprenticeships is supposed to be, which we know very well that there is no apprenticeship at hotels. We know very well that they work under inhuman working conditions, even those who have them for apprenticeship, but that's how they find cheap, free labor power. All apprenticeship schemes at hotels that was it. And you push them there. But that's inadmissible. That is why the JRC says that in spite of all efforts to plunder the extremes of the impact of the policies you are implementing, it cannot agree with this policy. We say that this policy must be overturned in practice through the struggle of the people. The people can do it, they can do it. There are these examples that confirm the position and assessment of the JRC. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u97	You have the floor, Minister, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling the text with the legislative improvements to the bill. It'll be them, and they won't be any more. I'm talking about Parliament's services. They're technical improvements. In relation to what has been said earlier, there is a regulation on the fifty trade marks in one of the three requests made by colleagues in the counter-population. The other two want further processing and we'll see it with the Treasury in the next few days. You know we're here on a moving sand for these issues. Things change, month after month. It will require further consultation on issues relating to seasonal workers in particular. In any case, we move forward with this regulation for the fifty trade marks for tourism - foodstuff. This improvement provision is coming, which you will see and we are open for the further. Mr President, simply to close the matter by us and by the amendments to say, for reasons of order, that the Government obviously supports the three ministerial amendments, the amendment with a general number of 1078 and a special number 79, the general number of 1088 and a special number 87, and the general number of 1090 and specific 88. Parliamentary amendments are rejected. In particular, the general number 1076 and the number 78, the general number 1079 and the special number 80, the number 1080 and the special number 81, the number 1081 and the number 82, the general number 1082 and the number 83, the general number 1083 and the special number 84, the general number 1084 by special number 85 and the number 1086 and a special number 86. They are therefore rejected. I spoke about SYRIZA's amendment earlier. There is no need to come back, there has been a debate. As regards the amendment on extension of terms, this is a matter of general government policy. The government will place itself in a more general position on this issue. With regard to the other amendments to the Change Movement, the State Secretary responsible will then come and take the floor, Mrs Michailidou, and will be placed for one by one, for the reasons why we are so placed. It's just me, I'm in place now to make it easier for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u99	Good. You should put forward the legislative improvements, Minister, to share in the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u100	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u101	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Fotini Arabaji, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. If the platform of "e-food" leaves the country, nothing will happen, said Mr. Skourletis. Consumers will be able to order from another platform. It is simply, Mr Skourletis, that the two thousand and sixteen workers of 'e-food', as you well know, have been forced into indefinite time. Apparently, they'll have a job find problem, and I imagine that you at SYRIZA won't hire them, with a law and an article. He said so very well, very briefly, very briefly, Mr Hatzidakis, about what the New Democracy Government has legislated about the collaborative platforms, and of course, about the late common interest in counter-population which, when ruling, saw nothing and now discovers dragons. Of course, Mr Skourletis speaks, inviting the PPC Government. He obviously forgets, Mr. Skourletis, his gappa in July 2016, who came out and accused Mr. Pittsirla, who said what? That the business plan goes ahead for the sale of 17% of PPC, including the sale of PPC's HSY, HSY and all the others that you gave to the Hypertension for more than ninety years. Mr. Skourletis forgets that in July 2016 he was supposed to blame Mr. Pitsirla, while three months ago, in May 2016 he had set wide in the relevant FEK his signature. The number 1472 is of the FEO, Mr Skourletis, because we are not all lobsters and we do not forget what we have lived for four and a half years in the SYRIZA - ANEL government. So leave the late crocodile tears and don't cry like Mr. Spirtzi. As far as the Golden Dawn is concerned and the suggestions we have received from this Step, I will say no suggestions for Golden Dawn from you to us, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Does Mr Skourletis say'stop' - makes suggestions to us - 'to fish for right-wing voters'? If there were no New Democracy Government, who sent to the prosecutor all the scattered procedures for the Golden Dawn, there would be no trial of the Golden Dawn. You who have met four and a half years with ANELs, with Mr. Kammenos and who have shared wide with the ministerial chairs, cannot move the finger on the line, which has begun the prosecution of the criminal organization, to the government that has now been completed the trial of the Golden Dawn. You four-and-a-half years have been completely paradoxical. You were looking for special rooms to judge Golden Dawn, dates, judges, in short you were blocking your own obvious political speech. Because you spoke, Mr Skourletis, to stay with the extreme right, I would like to remind you of this journey here. Do you remember that? Burnt, Vitsa and nine MPs in Ro and Kastelorizo. Your MPs, Mr. Skourletis, together with Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Cassidyris of the Golden Dawn and the next day your party form, "AGEY" instead of burying this topic mentions attributes: "Although Tayyip Erdogan, we have been accustomed to almost daily provocative statements about Losan, the Aegean and others yesterday, he didn't even do cich. Could a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of the Parliament, along with the leadership of the Ministry of Defence under Panos Kammenos, be found in Kastelorizo next to Turkey?". Is it random? I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that when this visit by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was announced and how the Members of the Golden Dawn would accompany, the Members at the time of the New Democracy, the River, the JRC and the PASOK refused to participate in this mission. Of course, nothing is random and nothing is detached from an overall policy, because I will recall that on December 11, 2016, Mr. Nicos Paraskeviopoulos, who had just replaced Mr. Kontonis, said in particular: "The image of coexistence in Kastelorizo and Ru did not like many. On the other hand, we must choose what we prefer, a lasting rupture or an attempt to integrate the Golden Dawn into the climate of democracy." So you who have these works and these days and these statements are very much to move the finger in the New Democracy, in the government, which led this golden and fascist organization where it fits, where justice has defined it. I now come to the bill, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, the social policy pursued by a government, the measures taken to strengthen social protection for all, the burden on children's pre-school age and socialisation in order to form a multi-inclusive society reflect both the level of civilisation of a country and its level of democracy, and much more when these measures concern our children and fellow citizens with disabilities. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, as a genuine people's party, has long demonstrated the social dimension of policies, which also has a social dimension, which has had a number of measures in our governance over the past twenty-six months. That is why I fully understand the embarrassment of the counterpopulation. The Minister rightly said that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - a Progressive Alliance was not mentioned at all in the bill, because he obviously has nothing negative to say. So I understand the embarrassment of counterpopulation. I understand why Mrs Fotou was forced at the last meeting of the committee at the last minute, although she had originally reserved to vote against the bill, precisely because it is another proof that you do not have the monopoly on social sensitivity. On the contrary, you have, on the contrary, restored the myth of the so-called sensitive Left, which you have supported for years - for electoral and only self-interest - with your recent work and days in the government from 2015 to July 2019. The draft law, which we are debating today, takes a very important step towards strengthening social protection. It even starts with and attempts to provide solutions to important social issues, such as prevention and treatment of child abuse, the promotion of destabilisation, further facilitation, support for disabled people by setting up a staff assistant, the upgrading of nurseries. I'd like to look especially at what has to do with the personal assistant. It is certainly a practical support for the right of people with disabilities to independent living and equal participation in society. The legislation comes and covers an important gap in the Greek institutional framework by adopting Article 19 of the relevant United Nations Convention that has been ratified by our country since 2012. You are well aware of the comments that our country accepted, as soon as New Democracy took over the governance in September 2019, in the relevant assessment report. We are therefore strengthening social cohesion, equal living, upgrading our country's regulatory, regulatory, institutional profile. The bill, of course, also contains the regulatory framework for the 'neighbourhood dads'. I also see the Secretary of State, who has drawn up this amendment. Let me give you a parentheses. This is an incredible attack, which you have carried out not specifically with the State Secretary, the Government in this case. Mrs Syrenegala came to the Commission, and what did she actually do? Before the amendment was tabled, in order not to surprise the House, it came and explained in detail what the amendment is going to include. What practices were you used to us? In last-minute delays, which were not even volumes, of course, a requirement for this House to be informed to the committees, as our Government does. These are inconsistent amendments which have been tabled in due course. Are these amendments which come and are analysed by the relevant State Secretary in committee, and do you dare say that we do not respect parliamentaryism? "The Dantes of Neighbourhood", therefore, touches one of the major problems of the country that is demographic, which must be uniform, coherent, time-consuming, acceptable to everyone. Through these provisions, families are allowed to reconcile their professional careers with their family lives, because family support measures are not only a social policy, but also a national policy. I am impressed by the fact that a woman rapporteur, Mrs Fotou, has unleashed cords against this institution, the 'Neighbourhood Dadades', at the very moment when the regulation is helping to tackle the underemployment of women in the labour market and prevent break-up careers. It is about promoting equality in the act of Article 21(1) and (5) of the Constitution. Of course, I would remind you that our demographic policy has given concrete examples of writing. The Minister said so too. Very quickly I will say that we promised and acted on the EUR 2 000 birth allowance for each child, we introduced the EUR 1 000 tax on each child. Even the expansion of parental leave symbolically but also actually takes steps to reverse our country's negative demographic trend. Mr. Hatzidakis said, we didn't do it all, there's a lot of roads. These are, however, positive initiatives, regulatory conditions. In fact, the total cost of the allowance for 2020 amounted to EUR 110 million, the EUR 2021 budget provides for EUR 170 million, and according to information from the OPCF, by August 2021, the amount of EUR 100 million has been paid in total. The same philosophy is to broaden access to kindergarten services. We increased the number of vouchers, eleven thousand more beneficial mothers. And not only that, but we also secured a grant from the Recovery Fund of EUR 180 million for the fifty thousand posts, not only for the municipalities, but also for children's stations all over the country as a whole. It is also surprising, as a matter of fact, that all this demonization of the use of Community funds, the resources for the Recovery Fund for social policies in practice, is astonished. So, what do you mind? That this government is coming and making best use of Union funds? That this government is coming and it proves that its proposals for the Recovery Fund are obviously in the right direction and obviously have added value and are they being commended? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will try, in the eighteen minutes that the other rapporteurs have had, to conclude. As far as child abuse is concerned, the legislative gap is covered, the state assumes its regulatory responsibility. The provision in the White Criminal Register, the presentation of which is necessary for workers working with children, is the same as the responsible statement of lack of legality for offences which render the person concerned inappropriate for any work in a space with children. It is self-evident for every serious European country, which, unfortunately, has never been the case until today in Greek reality. In accordance with legislative regulations, I would, therefore, consider it self-evident for a social sensitivity party, as SYRIZA wants, to vote for this bill and, indeed - I will say - with both hands. Instead, the party of Officerial Response has said a resounding 'no'. I ask: 'No' to what do you say, ladies and gentlemen? ‘No’ to help our fellow citizens with disabilities? The treatment of child abuse? Upgrade children's stations? To further facilitate the assumption? It is indeed sad to keep this sterile policy of refusal and to seek funny excuses in order to give flesh and bones to your refusal. One of your arguments is that the bill - you say - comes very quickly to be voted on, and its regulatory system will start from January 2022. You say, in fact, that we are doing this to change the communication agenda that is against us, because there is a popular outcry. Now, do you really write these arguments? To remind you of a phrase from your former Member, Mr Kavvadia, on the occasion of Mr Spirtzi's infamous statement, the work of the last femininity. So, really, to paraphrase Mrs Cavadia, with such arguments you want to make an opposition? Tomorrow is October, ladies and gentlemen. When do you want to legislate on the measures that will start to apply from 1 January 2022? Christmas? Let me ask you another question: if that was what we brought, that is, just before Christmas, would you vote for it? Really, what political agenda do we want to change, as you say? The one that shows in all polls a two-digit government difference from opposition, which is up to 12%? The political agenda that shows in all measurements that Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the most appropriate Prime Minister with the second "nobody" and thirdly Mr Tsipras? This national agreement achieved by Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the French President in Paris and which ensures, not only the worthy of the Armed Forces with new weapons but also provides for the assistance of a great force, such as France, in the event that our country is under attack? This agreement that, in addition to the arrogance it gives us, was made much more attractive than Kyriakos Mitsotakis, than the ones you negotiated in 2018? As far as I am concerned - I shall conclude with this - the other amazing argument, which I have heard so many times in committee and in plenary today, on many ministerial decisions, which need to be adopted to activate the draft law on the so-called'secondary legislation', ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I shall simply say to you that the authorizing provisions are correct legislation. When? Where they are specific and specific, such as the specific and specific authorizing provisions of the bill, the legislative text of this legislation is the same. In political terms, I will have to remind you that in your 2018 bill, for which you are taking - well you are doing and you are going - on the part of adoptions and dismantlings has had eleven authorizing provisions for joint ministerial decisions. Then were the authorizing provisions good, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? I will conclude by saying that, how much we respect human rights, how much we want to shield social protection, how much we want to activate all the forces of society, how much we want an inclusive society of equal opportunities for everyone, equal opportunities for prosperity, growth and work, is seen by legislative initiatives such as the government's proposal today to vote. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u103	Mrs. Anna Karamanlis will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Skourletis, don't go now to a cycle of controversy. I understand that you want to give two, three answers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u106	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u107	I do not deny you, but your intervention is very brief, because there is a large number of Members who have not spoken, something you know well. You see, after all, the list. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Arabatzis, first of all I wish you success in your new duties. But, in order for your course to be successful, would it be better than references to past photoreports, which have been said against corn here to create false impressions, to tell us something very specific: in Stavroupolis were nazi organisations? Do you condemn their presence? What your ministers have not dared to do, do you, as a Parliamentary representative, have the courage to take a position? In his honor, Mr. Dendias did so. Only Mr. Dendias! One! Everyone else didn't. Secondly - and I shall end - you have said a lot about energy. I've answered the Minister and I don't want to repeat it. I'd like you to tell me, how do you judge the D.A.'s mandate to investigate the possibility of manipulating the share, based on the latest share capital increase? Because here there seem to be practices which refer to other situations. You must therefore make a comment on these issues, so that we can be substantial. Everything else is about the impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u109	Good. Now Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I propose that she be preceded by pregnancy, if she has no objection, and Mrs Agathopoulos wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u111	The Bureau has already taken note of this and in consultation with Mrs Agathopoulos, who is pregnant, will be speaking after you, while she is well down on the list. However, thank you for the proposal and on behalf of Mrs Agathopoulos. Here, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law we are debating today focuses on children and people with disabilities. For the first time, a clear legislative framework for child protection is laid down, with emphasis on prevention and prevention of abuse. Preschool education is reformed in order to meet children's personal needs and to develop their skills. The framework for administering and adopting is streamlined so that more children can find a family. They support disabled people with institutions, such as the ‘Personal Assistant’, which enhance their social integration and their autonomous living and taking action to destabilise children, living in institutions. For children's protection and treatment of child abuse phenomena, we are creating for the first time a clear regulatory framework, which clearly defines what child abuse is and ensures by horizontal measures and actions that child protection is not a luxury and that no abuse of any form of child victim-subscribing behaviour is no longer tolerated and will not be unpunished. Preschool education is also reformed by infant, child and nursery stations with the "CYPHEL" programme, which meet the child's personal needs, cultivate skills and offer all children, without discrimination and exclusion, the opportunity to discover and develop their personal skills. SYRIZA accuses us of turning infantry facilities into child-care facilities. We move the nursery stations to learning and skills development areas for young children. You for preschool education all the years you've been ruling did absolutely nothing. In order to destabilise children living in closed structures, measures are taken to obtain the necessary supplies for their social reintegration. With the "Homi Autonomous Living" Programme we give them the opportunity to live independently outside the institutions and within society. We're right next to them and we're supporting them. We pay their rent, provide them psychological support and strengthen their professional skills in trying to interconnect with the labour market. The personal commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the establishment of the "Personal Assistant" for disabled persons is being carried out and, at the same time, a consistent demand for disabled people is met. The programme is launched pilotally and aims at encouraging the self-help of disabled people, destabilising them and gaining a better quality of life for individuals themselves, as well as for their families. Here we can be clear again that no disabled person loses an allowance. The aim is to improve the lives of all people with disabilities, inclusiveness and discrimination and to strengthen their social reintegration to the maximum extent. The institution of assumption and adoption is streamlined so that more children can find a family. In response to the age limits of contractors, we respond to the recommendations made by the UNICEF and the Citizens' Co-legislator. The contractors over the age of sixty have, for the majority, created a family and children who have left the house and have a lot of love to give. So why should we deprive them of it? Why should we deprive children who today live in institutions of a family of love and a home? After all, for the suitability of these persons, the social worker of the parent contractor is judged to be a security for the assumption. Opposition claims that this is a bill with many authorizing provisions for the adoption of many ministerial and joint ministerial decisions. So SYRIZA forgets - I too - that his own nr.4358/2018 on the institution of acceptance and adoption contained eleven authorizing provisions for ministerial decisions and by them he has implemented half of them. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a bill that is completely costly. The actions and policies launched are financed by the National Recovery Fund, by the NSRF and national funds and reach half a billion euros to enhance social protection. So, in your opinion, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, should we leave these resources for social benefits from the Unexploited Recovery Fund? 'no' we respond. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the amendment tabled concerning the 'Neighbourhood Danades' programme and the 'Digitality Signature' programme. The "Dadads of Neighbourhood" programme introduces, for the first time in Greece, the organizational provision of home care for infants and infants from two months to two and a half months old by certified workers now called caregivers and curators. Following on from the implementation of the government's policies aimed at harmonising the family and working life of women and their encouragement to remain active in their work after having children. We all understand the burden that a working mother raises and the need for support from the state to facilitate her everyday life, so that she never enters the 'family or work' dilemma. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] For the first time, a sign of diversity, to be awarded to enterprises as a reward for the integration of strategies and the implementation of actions promoting equality and non-discrimination, is introduced. It is about implementing a measure which helps to create a culture of zero tolerance to discrimination and exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that we are talking about a bill with modern orientation, which shields social protection, alleviates inequalities and exclusion and contributes to social prosperity and development. It strengthens care in vulnerable groups of the population and, above all, abolishes another myth, which the Left has been diligently built over recent years to consider as its exclusive right to exercise social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u113	And we thank Mrs Karamanlis. Mrs Irene Agathopoulos has the floor now from SYRIZA. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Viliardos will be followed by Ms. Poulos from SYRIZA and Mr. Tsavdaridis from New Democracy. Here, Mrs Agathopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President, for your priority and your colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the New Democracy does not like to discuss this, this bill, which has been tabled and which we are discussing today, has been brought up to the consultation, including five basic chapters, and we are now discussing eight issues which have been tabled with amendments. However, these are amendments - bills, not amendments to one article, but whole bills of law, ten and fifteen articles, without having been consulted, without having been discussed in committee and in the case of one of these amendments, the amendment to the OAED, without even having been informed by this House that there will be such an amendment. Of course, we are not surprised by your practice, but rather by what it shows. It shows, then, a government, which respects nothing. Apart from not respecting public property and disposing of the heart, as we have seen the previous days with PPC and PPA, neither Parliament nor parliamentary procedures nor, consequently, those concerning these bills, with which it has not even consulted. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you continue the same anti-parliamentary practice. The government brings bills - skeletons, without any substantial content - only 'lezanta', that is, as we say - and all serious arrangements refer them to ministerial decisions. You do not like the phrase 'licensed shirt', which your rapporteur and other speakers have commented on, but that is exactly what this bill is about. In essence - Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said so to the Commission and Mrs Fotio - you are asking for a white cheque from the House to then legislate on your own, since the serious provisions are not coming here. Also, day after day, you are becoming increasingly convinced that Mr.Mitsotakis, when he told previous PI that he was interested in communication and not in substance, he was not wrong, but he knew very well what he was saying. This motto continues to be followed by all the ministries. Let me give you an example. For the "Neighbourhood dadads" you have had time to give ads, to give interviews, to organize "events", to photograph about "social media", but you did not have time to submit the provisions on time, rather than you had to deposit them yesterday 23.30 hours! And how did you testify? You submitted them in the usual way I mentioned, that is to say, by putting Article 7, entitled 'Instructural provisions', in which all important decisions will be taken by means of joint ministerial decisions, without going through the House. We are also fully aware of the extent to which the process of keeping the curator’s Register is to be respected, the terms and conditions for obtaining the status of a caretaker or a caretaker, their terms of work and insurance, the content of the pilot project to be implemented directly, the selection criteria and the method of calculating the "voucher", the terms and conditions for the provision of the services, the bodies responsible for controlling and supervising the services provided. We have no idea about all this. I hope, at least today, that the Undersecretary will give us an idea, although we have now reached the end of almost the debate. So the question is what you have us to vote on. What if we like the name of the "Neighbourhood Dodges" program? We don't like that either. We do not like the name because it is particularly stereotypical and reproducing culture that child care can only be done by women, which in the 20th century in Europe I will not say is not the case, because I would be naive if I said so, but at least it should not be legislated. But there is another problem, which our rapporteur has mentioned. The "Neighbourhood dadads" programme, presented as a programme complementing the "CYPSHI" pre-school education programme, effectively undermines the logic of pre-school education at organised nurseries and entrusts pre-school treatment of children up to two and a half years of age to unspecified people and unspecified standards such as caretakers' homes, for example, especially during a pandemic period, without health and safety standards. So promote, ladies and gentlemen of the government, two-speed infants, that is, those who will go to nurseries and those who will take care of at home, on the pretext that you will also serve children who do not have in their area or who do not have the jobs. However, Mrs Fotioou explained with financial information that the use of the Recovery Fund would be a very good opportunity to create baby structures to cover all the children who need it. We say - we have tried to do so and Mrs Fotou told you - that nursery schools should be for all children, not just for those who have to pay not only for what they live in in towns, but for all children. It is an important factor in children's socialisation at this age and, as much as you want, it cannot be socialisation with nannies. The nannies, grandparents, grandparents, are retired in the absence of social structures, are not institutionalised by the state in the first century. The Minister said before that there is this programme in other countries of Europe. However, you did not have the time to submit this information to us either. We have nothing in our hands so that we can have a picture of this programme. In addition, we see the provisions because, as we have said, all the details are left to ministerial decisions - of course the State Secretary made a reference to the committees - that vouchers will not be the same for all the beneficiaries. Unemployed women will receive smaller sums for fewer hours, just for a few hours a week, so they can look for work. And students, Minister, are not even included in your design. But you should know - we say it with good intention, to think - that completion of studies is inextricably linked to professional rehabilitation. So maybe there should be a care for these women. Finally, it would be useful to tell us, even now, whether there has been any study or preparation for the areas in which you intend to implement the pilot project, which will start over the next period and on what criteria, because we do not therefore have any information. I hope at least there's a pre-process. I think it is worth making a reference to Article 8 of the same amendment on the sign of diversity in public and private enterprises. What are you actually doing? You make a variant of the equality mark, which concerns the rewarding of businesses that promote gender equality measures, now rewarding businesses, promoting equal treatment policies and combating discrimination in general on grounds of race, sex, sexual orientation, family and social status, and so on. I would like to make a proposal to you: Immediately after the law was passed, the first sign of diversity to give it to the Ministry of Health, Mr. Plory and Mrs. Gaga, who confirmed by their signature and their tolerance for a crisis council decision, which cut mother from the post of curator at the People's Hospital because of the family situation, because she has two children. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Keep a sign of diversity, Mrs. Syrégla, and you in the Ministry of Labour, which you did not say half a word about this particular incident, did not condemn and did not see you announcing initiatives to avoid such incidents in the future. To close, therefore, as the Minister closed his speech when you talk about inconsistency of words and actions, there is a need for less courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u116	Mrs. Shrengla, you have the floor for one, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u117	We talked about inconsistency of words and actions. The consistency of words and actions should govern all aspects. From the first moment, we said that we would rely on the report by the Intergroup of Parliament, which has been supported by both SYRIZA and the Change Movement from the New Democracy. In this report, therefore - and I will put it out in the Minutes - it says: 'The creation of a 'neighbourhood dan' programme: the institutional framework will be established so that the interested and interested parties can be accredited and they can take care of pre-school children themselves, as is the case in other countries of the European Union'. Because we talked about inconsistency of words and actions and because we heard that it was classic, that's why you supported it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Villardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting from the bill, we will only make a brief reference to certain parts of it, since the rapporteur for the Greek Solution Mrs Athanasios analysed it in detail, both in the committees and today. In particular, its main objective is to address the important phenomenon of child abuse. Although its purpose, as well as its object, is considered positive, its individual arrangements do not serve them at all. The main problem is the complete lack of practices and means to help reduce and deal with the phenomenon, while attempting to resolve issues relating to the placement of a person responsible for the protection of minors incompletely, since there is no mention of what qualifications he must have, on what criteria he is selected and what his term of office will be. A further problem is the planned ban on employment for a child protection organisation, since it is stated that people who have been sentenced irrevocably to specific crimes should not be employed. I repeat: For specific crimes. It is clear that the ban must also be extended to other crimes, since the aim is to deal with a very important phenomenon. Furthermore, it is necessary to introduce a job ban for those who have committed a crime and have provided distance work and not just for those who are working in a physical presence. A problem also arises in the absence of individual sanctions to the detriment of the child protection officer when he fails to mention an incident of abuse. If that's possible! On the other hand, the need to strengthen staff skills is mentioned vaguely, i.e. without introducing the means by which it will be achieved. Again, as is customary for everything from the final state of New Democracy, there are unacceptable powers, which unduly shift power to the relevant Minister, so that he can decide on specific issues. Finally, we are going to refer to two specific articles of the bill, starting with Article 39, which provides the Minister with superpower to define terms and conditions for the selection of the staff of the AME. In this respect, it shall not be ensured that the protector or the judiciary of any MEDI in the selection of the assistant, in particular in cases where the AMEI is disabled or mentally disabled. An autism or intellectual disability undermines the success of the institution in these SMEs itself, which must of course be directly corrected, since it is totally unacceptable. The most outrageous, however, is the one referred to in Article 26. In an extremely important bill on child abuse and care for disabled people, the government is inadmissible: It includes amendments to the assumption of minors by couples with a cohabitation agreement, so also by homosexual couples, something with which the Greek Solution disagrees vertically. The result is, in fact, that we should be forced as a Greek solution to vote'residents' in today's draft law, mainly because of Article 26. We therefore vote'residents' mainly because of Article 26, but reiterate our firm position on the fight against child abuse and on the total support for small and medium-sized enterprises. From the economic point of view of the economy, the concept of assistant staff is also an economic activity with high growth prospects and is part of the services for elderly people in the so-called Silver Economy. In this respect, according to a study by the European Union of 2018 that we will present in the minutes on behalf of the companies TECHNOPOLIS GROUP and OXFORD ECONOMICS, the size of the market in Europe was estimated at least EUR 3,7 trillion in 2015, and is planned to increase from EUR 5,7 trillion to EUR 6,4 trillion by 2015. Similar projections are made by the International Labour Union, providing that the services for the elderly will offer twenty million jobs in seven large developed countries: Australia, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States, while increasing their GDP by 2%. In the well-known book 'Great Reset', to the fans of the abolition of the national state and uncontrolled globalisation, with whom the Greek Solution, of course, totally disagrees - we are completely opposed - is mentioned as a possible response to the loss of jobs from automation and digitalisation. The number of elderly people in Greece is estimated at 1.8 million. They have great needs and increased inflation limits the possibility of help at home, with 60% of their costs going to food, housing and health. Therefore, special care must be given to the state, which we do not see promote. It should be noted here that in Greece there are also two hundred thousand Alzheimer's patients, a figure that is expected to increase, if there is no cure soon, because of their ageing and abandonment, on behalf of our young people, who leave abroad in order to be able to survive. This is another sad result of the catastrophic memorials, which is not only a burden on the elderly, but also on our economy. These memos continue and will continue until we meet 75% of our obligations towards the countries of the European Union. Continuing, their care, as in general the HEIs, is a great psychological and financial burden on families, so the existence of staff and support structures by the state could help them to a large extent. It is noted that care is a very precise activity, a key aspect of which is not both facilities as human resources, of course, both qualitatively and numerically, in the sense of the correct food-care ratio, which in the European Union is one to five, in the United States, if I am not mistaken, is one to four, but in Greece by far. Finally, the cost of the staff assistant, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, is 42.2 million for three years from 2022 to 2024, something we consider to be very low and does not go hand in hand with reality. In addition, there are studies that define it exactly twice as much. We are now going to continue in the economy on the energy issue, which plays a major role in consumer prices, which is already glaringly rising, while dramatically reducing the available income, so also the real wages of workers. In this regard, it is incomprehensible that the government has chosen to fly out of the window, literally over EUR 230 billion in lignite reserves, but estimated at a cost of $60 per barrel, but which has already exceeded 80 dollars, so our stocks, which the government chose to fly out of the window, are worth more than EUR 300 billion. This fact was confirmed recently by Mr Mytilinius, saying that the decision to degrease was premature, as well as that renewable energy sources are not sufficient to meet Greece's electricity needs, how much more, to contribute to the creation of safety reserves, while, in recent fires, renewable energy sources have only contributed to 5% of electricity generation, as they will deposit in the Minutes. Even worse, the government, after converting PPC from a production company to a wholesale and importing company, thus increasing the energy dependence of the country and making it the ballot of international markets, decided, suddenly, to sell it, through an increase in capital of 750 million, in which the excess and the HSE would not participate. In order to be objective, PPC does not belong to the Greeks, with the exception, perhaps, 3,43% of its shares, since 17% of its shares were transferred to TDIDE in 2014 on New Democracy, 34,12% to the SYRIZA in 2016, 3,43% belongs to various public entities, while the remaining 44,95% belongs to the large investor and institutional investors, as we will deposit in the Minutes. Given that TIADE is a subsidiary of the U.S.H.A., founded in 2016 on SYRIZA, however, which is a prerequisite for the third memorandum, signed by all three parties together, New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, 51% belongs to the lenders, recalling that the current Minister of Finance accused SYRIZA of transferring 34% to the Supreme Court, in fact confirming that the excess has nothing to do with the Greek State. It may, of course, be that the public holds 100% of the total voting rights, but it is unable to execute the orders of the foreigners, because otherwise they would stop financing Greece, which continues to live with borrowers, increasing the sum by EUR 41 billion, only in the last two years, again with a New Democracy Government, just like 2004-2009, which overruns Greece and effectively led it to the IMF. By continuing to divest PPC through the capital increase, the government invokes the need for investment, but this is unreasonable recently, since PPC has irresponsiblely sold 49% of PPC, the low-priced and medium-sized transmission network, compared with EUR 2.1 billion. It also claims that this will reduce electricity prices, just as when the same government sold OTE to the Germans, so that today we have Europe's most expensive internet with the worst performance, the highest telecommunications charges and so on. That's exactly what's going to happen with PPC. So something else is happening, while clearly distinguishing the pace of the country's scrapping with the concession of "EGNATIA", the divestment of "DEPA" of natural gas, at a time when its price is growing constantly, "DEPA" of course, with the PPC, with PPC now, with the 16% of the Piraeus Port Authority in "COSCO", which has just started a scandalous contract and so on. What is obviously happening is the payment of the very precise account of the borrowers in kind, of 41 billion, borrowed unnecessarily and wasted by the government in just two years. We really wonder how he made it. As we have said many times, it will leave nothing standing in the country, in the context of the change of ownership that is under way, while it will not hesitate to offer in return, for the prestige of power, even national sovereignty, to the Aegean, Cyprus or Thrace, when it is asked - and I stress it - from Germany or the United States. Incidentally, it is of interest to intervene by the Competition Committee on the question of the increase of PPC’s capital, due to suspicions of internal information, with a view to speculation, through the sale of shares at the highest price, before reducing, if necessary, to buy, later, again at a lower price. That's how speculation takes place. Obviously, the intervention of the Competition Committee is positive, but where the question arises: Why has PPC not intervened in the past, when it had reached 1.30 euros, among other things, through disseminations that PPC does not have money, nor to buy columns, so it was on the brink of bankruptcy? Why have these distributions been maintained by ministers, which certainly knew the real value of the company, as shown by its subsidiary, by the TEDDIE - PPC is a subsidiary of PPC - which sold 49% of it compared with 2,1 billion euros, that is, much higher than the total stock exchange value of its share? Should it be investigated, even ex post, how and why did the price of PPC's share collapse, destroying dozens of people who had invested in its share and not just? Should it also be investigated, who have speculated immediately afterwards, knowing that NOMEs will be abolished, perhaps, knowing that the government will also increase electricity prices without transferring the drop in energy prices from PPC to consumers, as it was due or anything else? Finally, what angers is the Prime Minister's reference to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, according to which price increases are an import problem, both in products and in energy, due to the rise in gas prices, but without supplementing that, then, they are only deadly international developments, when a country has become to import everything and produce nothing. This is how her governments have become Greece. However, yesterday's statement by the European Central Bank, entitled 'Strengthen the zombies', should not only concern Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, who will see their cut-off from bank lending. It must also reflect on Greece, which is much more intubated and zombie than two years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u120	We now invite Mrs. Poulos Panagiou to the Step by SYRIZA. Mr Tsavdaridis, Mrs Giannakopoulou, will be followed and has asked for the floor to support an amendment by Mr Veyropoulos. Mrs Kefala, Mr Marcus and the State Secretary, Mr Syregella, will then speak. Mrs. Pulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that the New Democracy Government has voluntarily taken the stand of the troika and the International Monetary Fund and has zealously implemented the informal Mitsotakis memorandum, a very tough memorandum, which no creditor demands this time, no foreign players ask for it. On the other hand, the government itself imposes this on society self-advisedly and voluntarily, the blue new troika set up by the neoliberal Chicagoboys of the New Democracy and the far right-wing orphans of the LAOS, together with their few-government friends and sponsors. It is precisely this Mitsotakis Memorandum, which brings public property to the hammer, which dismantles the middle class, demolishes one - one pillar of the social state, the Mitsotakis Memorandum, which is responsible for the recent national crime of the sale of PPA and PPC, but also of the previous ones, of the PPC, of the TEN, of the ELPE and of other national strategic enterprises, such as LARCO in my region. However, it is so rapid that the government's deterioration is such that the citizens are disappointed that Mr Mitsotakis and his ministers are trying to save themselves, more and more frequently, in the cheap communication scenes, which sometimes take the form of fantasy events for the Prime Minister in front of the cameras and sometimes even take the form of bills, which are supposed to solve serious social issues, but in fact they are nothing but sensitive faces, filled with hand-written, perforated and incorrect provisions. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today and I will explain why. Part I of the bill deals with the huge issue of the prevention and treatment of child abuse and neglect, in nursery, CSR and camps. You are presenting, ladies and gentlemen, as your supposedly great innovation, the fact that you are expanding the control of the penal register by workers of fixed or undetermined duration to volunteers, blocked workers and contract workers. Do you mean, as an innovation, the preparation of the framework to further progress in the elasticisation of working relationships, so that the later contractors can get into the game even stronger? I inform you that taking care of your friends again, at the expense of the public interest, is no longer an innovation. You've repeated this in countless bills. You also forget that the control of the criminal record does not automatically make a candidate suitable for work in such sensitive positions. Only the successful participation of the candidates in the process of a structured interview and its evaluation by experts can guarantee the absence of potentially dangerous divergences. Also common as you are in legislating devices that favour opacity and covertness, you prefer the placement of a single person, through the structure, as responsible for protecting children and the elderly. We wonder how this employee will withstand the pressure when he needs to report an incident? You are obviously not concerned with the answer. That is why you have avoided the introduction of a status of effective control, where the responsibility will have an independent external team of specialists, with a psychologist, a social worker and a legal officer in its composition. Of course, this control regime should be supervised and coordinated by the National Centre for Social Solidarity, but you have made sure you get away from staff to disapprove it, since it is an obstacle to your plans for the full privatisation of the system. We are now going to Part II of the bill, where you tell us that the new preschool education framework lies, but all we find is a large, grey zone of ambiguity and misleading. In just four paragraphs, you have just made reference to the future adoption of a joint ministerial decision, and you are thus succumbing to the legislative process to hide that, as demonstrated by the homogenisation of negative comments in consultation, your plan did not gain the confidence, not of the scientists, nor of the workers, nor of the bodies. But how can she be won by not taking into account the latest developments in scientific research, but not even the actual data from the nursery stations in the country, those who deliberately deceive as places supposedly suitable for child parking, just to justify the assignment of the new framework to a private company? Disguise once again the experienced scientific staff of the structures to give a decisive role and public money to the private interests with which you are interacting. And the disappointing sequence of the controversial arrangements continues in the third part of the bill, which concerns the institutions of acceptance and adoption. Here you continue to distort the existing legislative framework of the SYRIZA Government, of Law 4538/2018, by introducing two completely unfavourable regulations. With the first allows older people, seventy-five years old, to become adolescents, and of course we are not talking about the cases of affinity, whereas with the second, unsatisfactory arrangement you are unjustified from the training of parents for the man or woman who has entered into a cohabitation agreement and who wants to adopt or become a contractor to his partner's child. Why do you make this distinction? Isn't training important? At the same time, you reduce the total child-care allowance from up to EUR 800 today to EUR 375. Your ignorance of the real conditions and needs of society is impressive. Part IV of the bill undermines the potential positive initiative, the "Personal assistant" the disabled. No one knows how many people will benefit before the universal application of the institution in 2025, while reloading all the substantive arrangements to a future NSA. Of course, even here, there is no window for the institution's demolition from private interests, since we know nothing about the infamous third-party provider through which the disabled will receive the services concerned. The globes are obviously already set up. I'm closing down with Part V where the food you're preparing, Mr. Ministers, with the money from the Recovery Fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. Promise fifty thousand extra places at the infancy stations with 180 million euros, while you have already left out of CSR structures this year and eighty-three thousand children. Twenty thousand are out of childcare due to the roughness and delay of your promotional procedures that have resulted in parents unable to submit their applications in good time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government is trapped in the deadlocks that it itself creates with its policy trying with this bill to wear the mask of social sensitivity. However, it is again legislated contrary to the positions of the institutions, to the detriment of the representatives of the education staff of the country, and ultimately to the detriment of the needs of our children and disabled fellow citizens. The communication games of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis have no end. But soon the society that sees its destructive policy in all areas will choose a new progressive government that will rebuild the welfare state that you systematically break down. Apart from the social state that you are tearing down, however, you have weakened almost all state services. I'm talking about my region. I am referring to the fire services and the Boeotian Police Directorate, which is my constituency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u122	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. The strong concern of the earthquake of recent months in Thebes, the formation of seismologists for the preparedness of the state mechanism leaves no room for any other flaw in the government. And finally, by closing, with your tolerance, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u124	Another tolerance? How much tolerance? We've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a reference to the events of Stavroupoli. Until the final extermination of Lernay Hydra of fascism, no democratic citizen should be reassured. A year after the victory of democracy against the criminal neo-nazi organisation of the Golden Dawn, its storms relive and attack by its imprisoned leaders and with the tolerance of the orderly state. Saving and eradicating them is a day-to-day responsibility and duty of all the democratic citizens of our country. And be sure those who mock and embrace the snakes of fascism will be in pain first. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u126	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an emblematic bill in this House whose positive breeze is spreading throughout our culture. A law of political responsibility, humanitarian sensitivity and social empathy, which concerns directly or indirectly more than a million of our disabled citizens over four hundred thousand preschool and school education children, as well as a large number of structures and institutions focusing on child care and education. A draft law under which the framework for prevention and protection is founded so that all children are raised in a safe environment without physical and mental health. Educational methods are modernised with emphasis on the individualization of the needs of the child and the fertile cultivation of his skills so that all pre-school children enjoy a productive educational process away from social and economic exclusion. The possibilities of early intervention are upgraded so that children in closed structures can find their own family and obtain all necessary supplies for their optimal social reintegration. Opportunities are multiplying so that people with disabilities can be able to participate equally throughout the whole range of social, economic and cultural life. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The first of the main axes of the bill is the prevention and treatment of child abuse in line with our society's demands for effective state intervention against this shameful phenomenon. In this respect, for the first time, it is clearly defined what child abuse is and prevention measures are strengthened by the creation of the National System for Recording and Monitoring of Reports. An obligation is laid down for all operators to notify, without delay, the competent authorities of any incident of abuse arising in their understanding. In addition, special care is taken so that those who offer services in child protection structures are suited to be in the same place as children. This is the very least that, as a state, we owe thousands of children who have been abused over a period of time by, and only, human beings. Innocent children's souls, according to data from the ‘Smiling of the Child’, for 2020 only, as regards related reports, amount to more than two thousand. The second basic axis concerns the establishment of equal opportunities for all children in infants and children's stations through the introduction of the innovative "CYPSEL" programme, which is a mechanism for early detection of mental, learning and psychosocial difficulties, as well as the introduction of regular monitoring and evaluation of infants and infants by specially trained staff with a view to the diagnosis and early intervention. These key regulations of the New Democracy Government are based on the idea that pre-school age is crucial for the development of infants, infants and children, and therefore the pre-school education provided so crucial for the development of their personality, which must include the most qualitatively possible criteria, is characterised by respect for the uniqueness and personal growth of each child and by a spirit of cohesion and a common educational method. The third axis ensures dehydration so that the semi-autonomous living programme does not remain in an institution more than any child or adult need. Dehydration is not just a word. It is the new horizon that we must extend before the eyes of hundreds of minors and adults in order to gradually take their steps out of closed structures in a smooth and secure manner and with a vehicle to promote services at work, and to provide incentives to facilitate assumption and enlargement to the age limits of parent contractors. We are finally getting out of isolation, giving them the opportunity to live in the community and chase their own dreams, without obstacles and unfair restrictions, while giving their families a huge hand of help, which will no longer feel that they are fighting alone for the selfless, left over from the Greek state. In the face of all these hubs, which illuminate the sensitive face of our society, the reaction of Officer Response is once again mystical and awkward. Categories of violation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and of regular troika, because we have, in fact, brought the bill at the last minute. Illustrating that we have brought the bill quickly, to reverse the climate and, allegedly, to cover our failure to manage the pandemic and the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And of course, the well-known "caramella" for allegedly engravings, where there will be a diagnosis of learning difficulties and, allegedly, a choking working regime of the "personal assistants" MEDIA. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, aren't you tired of saying the same outdated and lame arguments while Greece is moving on to the new era? You are playing it so-called socially sensitive, and at the same time you are denouncing the rapid legislative treatment by the Government of sensitive social issues. You play it socially sensitive on paper, but it is the Government of New Democracy that practically joined in the thirteen-and-a-half-three thousand children this year, compared to 2018 that you were in the government. Don't bother, Miss Fotio. Truths don't bother you. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u128	I'm not bothering you. I'm laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u129	We are saying and contradicting arguments which have to do with our own governance and yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u130	Don't have a dialogue. You're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u131	You play it socially sensitive when the Ministry of Labour has made a thousand recruitments in two years, while SYRIZA had done nothing during his time. And you play it socially sensitive when this government spends 175 million more than SYRIZA in the field of social care. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill shows once again that the Government of New Democracy continues to listen to Greek society and its needs, giving substantial solutions to its problems. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u132	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Constantina Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement has the floor. Then there will be the floor for the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besyropoulos, for three minutes to develop the amendment. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in Parliament's plenary to discuss another bill from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Minister, although so far the Ministry in which we are led has become accustomed to controversial legislation, I have to say that I sincerely am pleased that you have decided, in the end, to turn your eyes to people and to social groups, to vulnerable groups, which, if you like, often find themselves on the backstage, are not visible. I am referring, among other things, to people with disabilities, to older people, to abused children. I make this point, whether or not I agree with the draft law and its provisions. We as PASOK, as a Movement of Change, were and are firmly next to such efforts, supporting them. The strengthening and creation of a modern and effective welfare state, after all, are a key part of our philosophy and interest for us. I would therefore like to believe that a similar view of us is also in favour of you, Minister. After all, we, the PASOK, have historically proved, in the policies we have brought and implemented, that we are practically supporting these people. In the context of this draft law, therefore, it is indeed moving in the right direction and it contains provisions which in principle - and I stress this, at least in the first place - are difficult to disagree. Let me make this clear, however, without truly questioning your good intentions. What really worries me, Minister, is the implementation of your policies today, is the results, the visible results, the real results we will have. Because this bill is directly concerned and will affect the daily lives of millions of citizens and their families and indirectly all Greek society, its operation and its own cohesion, if we take into account that it is about 10% of the Greek population, it is about one million people. So let us not have another law that will not be implemented in practice when or when it will be applied in a lack of time, and which will simply have the sole purpose of creating impressions and opening you up to a portion of your voters, from the moment when, in fact, we have been in an unofficial pre-election period. Any government policy needs to be beyond that, and it should not simply be a communication firework for reasons of impression or of votes being collected. From a material point of view, these people need real protection and social inclusion policies. In particular, I should like to point out the following: we are in principle in agreement with the mechanism set up to prevent and deal with incidents of child abuse and neglect. In any case, we have had such incidents in time. It is a very serious, very sensitive, really, issue, which, unfortunately, has become even more serious about this phenomenon of abuse and young children intensified in the crisis and in the pandemic. Of course, in this logic of dealing with and supporting these children we are absolutely positive. In order to ensure the effectiveness of this institution, however, appropriate staff are primarily needed. Appropriate infrastructure is needed. And here the municipalities, as the most important social management bodies, must have a say. They should have a say with the strengthening of the institutions of advice and open care. It is your duty and it is your duty to see it seriously and to ensure it as a Ministry. The second chapter of the bill relates to the "BYCHEL". Sounds interesting. It really sounds interesting, but how will it work in practice, when only to put it into practice need five CSUs? Provision for when these will be issued or even a timetable we have not heard. I don't see there to be, Minister. We are again listening to a programme which will be done. Of course, when and, of course, unknown and with what content. Even more problematic, however, is that the substance of the operation and content of this programme, whenever it is implemented, is entirely left to you, Minister, through the CYR. But it is assumed that this competence belongs to the House. Isn't that right? In other words, with the continuing authorizing provisions when the legislative body is primarily responsible, the parliamentary body is something that you need to see. It cannot under any circumstances continue. Further provisions in relation to assumption and adoption, such as the extension of age limits, are considered positive. In Article 24 you proceeded to the reconstruction of the National Admission Council, but I am surprised to note that there is no representative of local government and a representative of disabled associations. I think you should see this again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. In principle, we agree with the establishment of the "personnel assistant" for disabled persons. It is a truly serious, substantial institution that can - and must - deliver results. However, if the budget is in fact just EUR 42 million for three years, this means that this institution that you are so advertised, Minister, in practice, will be very few people in the end. In other words, only two thousand beneficiaries are scheduled to join a total of about one million HEI, as I said before. So that is not universal application, as we are told by Article 38, Minister. The 42 million in three years for a substantially million beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries is not a universal application. Will the same person also be allowed to join this institution and, at the same time, to receive the absolute disability allowance received by pensioners today due to disability and old age by the ECA? The alleged provision protects the allowances granted by the OPEKA, but not the allowances granted by the OPEKA. Please specify, in order for the beneficiary to know what to do in order not to find himself before unpleasant surprises and damages. The terms of work and staff insurance, which will provide its services to this programme again - what a surprise - will be regulated with a CSM. Isn't that right, Minister? What provision, then, and what protection framework will there be for these workers? Shouldn't the Greek Parliament know? Finally - and I close with this - what is important and what I think is of interest to all of us is the protection and support of these people and these groups, as well as the improvement of their everyday lives, the creation of a rule of law and welfare, where everyone can have equal opportunities and equal rights with full real, substantial, social integration. This is for us - and this must be for us all - a priority objective and a priority. This bill, although, ladies and gentlemen, is moving in the right direction, requires many modifications, corrections and improvements. The Change Movement has tabled concrete amendments precisely to this end, and we always want to make constructive criticism, which we hope - and we expect you to be heard, Minister - to take serious account of and adopt them. Because for us, the sensitivity and substantial support of these people and these vulnerable groups is an identifiable issue of our policy of placement, it is an existential political DNA. We have proved it with our history and we will be here with our proposals to try to improve as much as we can this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. The Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, has the floor for three minutes to develop Amendment No 1078 from 28 September. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to refer to the amendment under a general number of 1078 and with a special number of 79 tabled by the Ministry of Finance. Article 1 of the amendment grants HNPH discharge for 2020, 2021 and 2022 for property damaged by the earthquake of 30 October 2020 in the regional units of Samos, Ikaria and Chios of the North Aegean Region. At the same time, the same article grants an exemption from HNPH for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 for the property damaged by the earthquake of 3 March 2021 in the regions of the Regional Units of Larissa, Trialon and Karditsa in the Region of Thessaly, the Regional Unit of Pierreia in the Region of Central Macedonia, the Regional Units of Grevenes and Kozani in the Region of Western Macedonia and the Regional Unit of Fotidas in the Region of Stereas Greece. Those who are entitled to the exemption should apply to the DU for tax on their income by presenting the necessary supporting documents. The exemption concerns property which has suffered damage and received the necessary certificate from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The relevant application may also be submitted electronically, provided that the IKU belonging to the citizens concerned has joined the digital platform. Then there will be a new liquidation and repayment or remission of the tax due on these properties. There is therefore no need to worry about the citizens who have already received HICP clearances, and their real estate falls within the above-mentioned cases of HICP. It is clear from the content of the amendment that they are exempted. The government stands next to these people, extends the time limit of the support measures, such as HICP exemption. A similar support is said to exist for those affected by the recent earthquake in Heraklion Prefecture. The Prime Minister announced support measures that will be immediately activated, including: - Exemption from ENVY for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 for the buildings which have been damaged. The exemption also applies to this year's HICP clearance. - Direct financial support up to 20,000 euros to the affected. - Suspension of tax and insurance obligations. These are measures triggered by the new and well-established State Aid Framework for natural disasters. Article 3 of the amendment extends, following coordinated actions by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, until 30 November 2021, the deadline for examining applications for the proof of the existence of successors and for granting to them real estate belonging to the private property of the State and located within him by the Royal Decree of 29 July 1984, at the posts of Rahes and Mahala, Malesina. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance must be supported cross-partyly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u138	If there are any questions on the amendment, the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives may request clarifications. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said something about Crete. Indeed, the amendment you have tabled on 28 month is not mentioned. The amendment which was tabled tomorrow is also discussed in the Ministry of Health bill, which was tabled on 29 September, after the earthquake - the night before yesterday - you say nothing. While you say everything about Crete, you say nothing about what is stated in Article 1 of the amendment, which we shall vote on today. I mean that in the amendment that will be discussed tomorrow in the Ministry of Health's bill you refer to the extension of the electronic platform for state aid, one-off aid for earthquakes, one-off exceptional financial support for natural persons, construction compensation, one-off exceptional financial assistance for non-profit enterprises, netting and reimbursement of exceptional financial aid to natural persons, tax free, unreasonable, you say everything in seven articles and you say nothing about Article 1 that you mentioned today - and you rightly mentioned it - and it is about HISA. Why this omission? Will you bring another amendment to Crete again? It is surprising that this is in the sense that tomorrow we are discussing a specific amendment on Crete. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u140	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. Mr Colleague, the amendment to the exemption from HPAI will be tabled immediately, but it is not tabled tomorrow because the region in question needs to be demarcated by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. As you can see, for these provisions that we have in Article 1 there is a delimitation, as they have been delimited by the RAPEX - JRC. What we lack is to demarcate this region from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the amendment will come immediately. It is clear that for this year they are exempted from the general provisions. What we are going to do for the specific area of Heraklion Crete is to relieve them for three years, this year it applies to the general provisions and extend it to '22 and '23. I have now signed a decision on another region of this region to suspend tax obligations and another tomorrow declared by the Secretary-General of Civil Protection in an emergency and immediately, on the same day or next, take the areas in which tax and insurance obligations are suspended. We are acting immediately, Mr Colleague, for this region, but also for all regions affected by extreme weather, earthquakes, floods, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u142	Mrs. Head from New Democracy has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Marcus will speak with SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, we are taking another step towards strengthening the social protection grid focusing on children and people with disabilities, with provisions aimed at upgrading social services. We incorporate European recommendations, improve the existing framework and introduce for the first time a clear legislative framework for child abuse, namely protection and care for all citizens, but more for our citizens who need it and for vulnerable social groups. Today, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, we are establishing a framework of prevention and protection against child abuse in child protection structures, structures such as nurseries, children's protection institutions, employment centres for children and people with disabilities and child camps. We are creating a clear legislative framework so that all children are raised in a safe environment, without risk to their physical and mental health. We put in the microscope the existence of a terrible phenomenon of child abuse, a phenomenon against which we all have to unite. This is an urgent need. That is why we are introducing concrete measures to combat it. We want to go through a clear message: no abuse of any form of child victim behaviour will be tolerated and will not remain unpunished. We are covering a serious gap that exists in the legislation in force. From now on, everyone who works in these structures with any relationship of work should have a white penal record, should not be penalised by criminal offences against sexual freedom, domestic violence, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking. It shall be established in each structure responsible for recording the incidents and informing the competent authorities. Children are the most important value of society, it is the basis of our policy, because these are the future that we make them strong. We are strengthening the proper functioning of social services structures for children. We aim to develop the skills of children accompanying them and their adult lives. We are investing in equal opportunities for children, laying the foundations for sustainable and inclusive development with a single daily programme, common to all the nurseries in the country, with which timely diagnosis of development or other difficulties will be achieved. In addition to all public and private stations, the program will be implemented with a specific daily program based on each age group and always with respect to the uniqueness and personal rate of development of each child. With the implementation of the programme, we overall upgrade the services provided to nurseries and nurseries, because pre-school age is crucial to the development of infants, infants and children, and because the education provided to these ages is crucial to the development of their personality in the future. All children, without exceptions, will have access to a better, full and more modern educational program to offer infants and toddlers the opportunity to develop their skills through different activities and stimuli. We also bring better interventions to the assumption system. Our aim is to make the take-up and adoption mechanism more operational in order to achieve the dismantling of minors and gradually reduce the number of closed child protection structures both by achieving the import procedures to foster families, as well as by rationalising the assumption supervision. We are establishing the autonomous living apartments. These apartments will, as far as possible, be similar to family environments in order to achieve the smooth integration of adolescents living in institutions. We embrace all these people who live in public or private child protection and care units. Unfortunately, people aged 15 and over who live in child protection and care facilities are extremely difficult to disembark and be placed in a parent’s foster or adopted. We are therefore preparing these people for their autonomous lives and preparing them with the simultaneous development of their skills, so as to strengthen their chances of employment in the labour market. We support the independent living of small and medium-sized enterprises, their quality of life, their families. We establish the institution of the "Personal Assistant" for disabled people. The ‘Personal Assistant’ will support all persons with disabilities irrespective of disability category and living conditions. We want their equal participation in all aspects of the country's social, economic, political and cultural life. We are committing ourselves to an election commitment, one more of our pre-election commitments. We help modern society and cover existing gaps. That's enough of the gaps. With the 'Neighbourhood Danades' programme, we are solving a major and everyday problem. We come to practically support new parents, give them the opportunity to use nannies with specialization and certification for the care of their children from two to a half years during working hours. It is a measure expected by the Greek society, the new mother and the new father, and we are doing so today. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the New Democracy Government and Mr Mitsotakis is to strengthen social structures and social services to shield them institutionally. We come with important interventions that have to do with the social protection system to support the whole society. This bill reflects the government's political will to reduce inequalities, to strengthen care for our fellow citizens who most need us. We are setting the foundations so that we can prevent and deal with child abuse in time. We establish equal opportunities for all children in nursery schools. We make sure that no child stays in an institution more than necessary. We provide supplies and assistance to disabled people to achieve their independent living. None of this is easy and certainly not everything can be done with wishes, except with political will and deeds that the current government has. We have the will, we have the ability to make it a step - step by day. We invest in society, invest in our fellow citizens, invest in human beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Konstantinos Markos is called to Stepma by SYRIZA. Then the State Secretary, Maria Sregella, will take the floor. Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the title of your bill is splendid, like all the usual titles of your bills. ‘Prevention and treatment, upgrading, promotion...’. However, the substance is quite different, of course. I shall start with one comment on the most recent parliamentary representative. SYRIZA said he brought the bills with many joint ministerial decisions. Madam colleague, I challenge you. Take SYRIZA's bill of acceptance and adoption. If you find a joint ministerial decision, which is not technical or economic, and are essential, please submit it, in contrast to your own draft law that the whole "CYPHILE" programme has only four paragraphs. Do that and then come move the finger! We see the story repeated. Procedures with this bill, two committees in one day, start committees one day after the deposit, a minimum of time for the processing and development of particularly serious issues. What's the big deal? You have had plenty of time. We've been waiting for two and a half years now to bring it in. Let's see one - one title thing. Juvenile abuse. After the disclosure - which we do not need to expand - of the tragic incidents of child abuse, which have shaken the country together, we expected to introduce a bill of child center, which has a protective mark and serves the best interests of the child. We have received disappointment, just as was the case with the recent law on conscientiousness, where the government once again weakened the child's position, displaced the child from the centre of interest and introduced purely generic provisions. We expected you to propose modern arrangements to prevent all forms of abuse in closed structures, based on European and international standards. Instead, we meet provisions of police philosophy and legislation that favour the creation of relationships between corruption and transaction, which can potentially lead to the final cover-up of abuses. The institution of the child protection officer, as you attempt, is pleading for the above. Scientists and sensitivity are completely absent from your bill. There are no special and applied examples of foreign countries. Therefore, we cannot talk about a child-friendly system. The majority rapporteur said that the child will be informed and we are asking the following question. Who will the abused child inform? The hierarchically existing body, the responsible officer who is called to control his superior chief? Do you doubt that, Ministers? We recommend withdrawing the relevant unnecessary arrangements and preventing the report of the incidents of abuse to a three-member committee with a psychologist, a social worker and a lawyer. You have rejected this proposal. Furthermore, no special arrangements are found with regard to the object, the object, the object and the crime of sexual abuse. Only a slight reference to the introduction and definitions. Let us now see that recent investigations have shown the following. Firstly, the majority of sexual abuse occurs within families, so it must also be done in closed structures. That's very difficult to report on abuse. Secondly, at the time of the pandemic, crimes of child abuse online marked an increase of 25%. And thirdly, the greatest sexual assaults, especially on vulnerable children, such as children living in child protective structures, have been made by volunteers. Do you doubt that, Ministers? And we ask you: Why are you silenced? Why do you fail to give the appropriate tools to prevent and effectively deal with these incidents, in line with European legislation in the 2011 Directive? Let's go to second. The Commission's proposal for a Council regulation Obviously it is understood that you are trying to modify the educational programme implemented in the whole of municipal, private and public kindergartens, nursery and nursery schools, implementing this programme, and without much reason you are ignoring the legislation of SYRIZA. The Undersecretary said: "The Qualification is coming to tell us that the program "Cypli" imitates third-country practices and is fully adapted to Greece's characteristics." No more untrue. What's the matter? One, what is truly true and failed to inform the Greek people is that the New Democracy makes law a draft NGO "NINEOSIS", which has been applied to poorer neighbourhoods of the third world, such as Jamaica, Bangladesh, Colombia and is applied to countries with incomplete infrastructure, and that is probably where the government as a country joins us. The government welcomed this donation with this statement that it is a great offer, deciding to apply to our children backwards and outdated models and unauthorized standardized learning. It is essentially a ghost program. Everything will be done with these famous joint ministerial decisions, contrary to the interests of children, such as, for example, the Departments of Child Education of the universities of Western Greece, Ioannina, the international university, etc. And the kindergarteners have informed you. Do you doubt that all these scientific bodies were opposed? Secondly, the characteristics of Greece which had to be studied for the implementation of the programme have obviously not been studied. What's left to see is, of course, when the donation will be paid. Let's go to chapter 3, "Helpless Disabled". The previous speakers have said so, from the whole range of opposition, rapporteurs. This is a pilot project. Its costs show that it will in fact be about 2% of the population concerned with small and medium-sized enterprises, as they have said to you, the RESEARCH Agency and pilots up until 2025 will only help thirty-five thousand of our fellow citizens, even if this is done. Do you doubt that this is the practice of numbers and their truth? We consider that the "Personal Assistant" is an important service for those who have these problems, we have included it since we passed our programmes in February. Fourth, assumption and adoption. You are presenting SYRIZA's flagic law of administering and adopting, which came as a first huge step towards destabilising adults and minors, as supposedly a big change in the New Democracy and introducing innovations. Who are these? One, you raise age limits for the assumption at seventy-five and certainly not for relatives. Can you imagine what monstrosities can arise from such a assumption of a seventy-five years old for a fifteen-year-old child? I invite you to feel it. The Civil Code only provides for sixty years. Exclude from the monitoring of the programs to the candidates for the adoption of children’s spouses. Do you not realize that at the heart of all the relevant arrangements must be in the best interest of the minor? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. We support the fact that minors should go to school and that is why we have declared our desire for fourteen years of compulsory education. Can you, ladies and gentlemen, also say that you are in favour of this view of the fourteen years of compulsory education, now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Marcus, finish because the timer didn't work the first two minutes you started.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u147	I have noticed that, Mr President. I'm done. The Minister spoke of courage when he was here. I'll give the definition of the nerve. The courage is to privatize PPC and to mobilize its share, to interfere with the financial prosecutor and the minister in charge not to say a word. It is courageous to call, to say, - now from this Step - the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, "we have failed" - said - "for vaccinations, you come with your smart ideas!" I will tell you a clever idea, ladies and gentlemen: our slogan is to everyone: Immediately to get the Mitsotakis Government out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u148	Good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u149	In fact, fifteen more seconds, Mr President. And thirdly - lastly - as a definition of the nerve, she came out and told us about SYRIZA's so-called relations with the far right and the Nazis. Every day, life proves who it is. If you show me a statement of New Democracy's complaint to the extreme right, which is not accompanied by another statement - a complaint about something else, I will in fact take a long time to return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u150	Yes, sir. Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Fotini Arabatzi, has asked for the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u151	For a little while, Mr President. Because my colleague, Mr Marcos, who has been in fact a member of this House, has caused me to mention even a reference to a joint ministerial decision by the SYRIZA bill, which is technically and in detail, and not materially and indicatively, I shall say in Articles 14, 16, 18, 24 and 26, the relevant CSRs which effectively regulate everything in the Act of Adoption of Law No 4538/2018. No technical details are available on registries, required qualifications and any other issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u152	Read us who she is! The registries...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Fotou, don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u154	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u155	In particular, a joint decision determines the level of compensation for trainers and their qualifications required.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u156	Yes, sir, economics...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u157	A joint decision of the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Innovation regulates the setting up and maintenance of a Special Register of Professional Contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u158	Yes, sir! Does he know what he reads, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u159	I know very well! The monthly compensation, health and insurance coverage, their specific training programmes, as well as any other issues relating to the implementation of the present.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u160	Expose more!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u161	It's too bad you don't understand the difference of law from a CFD! That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Marcus, Mrs. Fotio, please! He's a parliamentary representative! It has a right to intervene, it has time and it has not exhausted its time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u163	We are tired, Mr President, of not knowing the difference in law from a civil war!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u164	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The law is deposited. Scripta manent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u165	Yes, sir. Mrs. Shrengla, the State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u166	At a time when pandemic is internationally testing personal and social tolerances and imposing a redefinition of the content of public policies at all levels, at a time when we all understand that the support of the Greek family and the treatment of demographics is one of the largest national bets, which, from its evolution, will also be the image of the country in the next few decades, at a time when according to all elements and in Greece, and in Europe, women are still under-represented in the labour market, we as government are taking initiatives and presenting substantial support actions for the Greek family, parents, in terms of caring for their children. In particular, we are introducing for the first time this model of organizational provision of home care for infants and infants, from two to two and a half years old, from accredited persons who are curators and curators. Do you hear, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA Officer, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, that there is a home care facility? Do you hear for the first time that many parents are looking for someone to keep their children? Do you have any contact with the Greek society? You hear for the first time that there are people who can't be served by nursery stations, because they're quite simply rolling hours, working Sundays, working holidays, being self-employed and self-employed, being freelance professionals? So we're coming up for these people to serve them. First time you hear that there are people, parents, young people who don't have access to central structures? This action comes in here and works in addition, in combination with the existing child care and pre-school education policies. It also serves employment needs through the creation of new jobs for persons wishing to work as curators or curators. Fights black work, gives health care and insurance to people who are currently working at home. The result? Because it has not been all so long, it is well known to all that women often prefer or forced to leave or stop work, especially the early years of children's age, until what we say, the child is unearthed and in this way they do not have the same job opportunities as men and are often found without income or depends on the income of the husband or partner. And this has to change. Women's access to employment is very important not only for themselves because they are armed with autonomy and independence, but also for their families, because women's employment proves to be a contribution to improving family living standards and the general sustainability of the economy. I would also like to point out that this specific action has been recognised by the report of the Intergroup of Parliament and supported by SYRIZA, by the Change Movement. Only the JRC then had not supported it. Successively, therefore, to a negative criticism of this action that offers substantial support to family and young parents, especially to working mothers, forgetting that in 2018 exactly this programme you supported it. That's exactly the program! In particular, there was a clear reference to the Intergroup - and if you are not looking, it is on page 197 of the report, see it! - provision of childcare, which speaks exactly about this programme, 'Neighbourhood dads'. In our country experience shows that home care services for infants and infants are, as we have said, a large proportion - particularly self-employed parents, especially women - the most appropriate solution and is being applied around us more and more frequently because of the increased and demanding work obligations of parents. This action will initially be implemented piloting in specific geographical areas. You know, there's also the self-employed, there's the free professionals who work other hours. There are people working on the catering, working on other hours. So this action will initially be implemented in specific geographical areas, always in combination - and I say it, and I still say it - with day-care stations - complement each other - and there will be co-financing from Union resources and from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs resources. And finally - which is the most important at the moment, it is quite important - for the first time regulates the work and the insurance regime of the persons who will work in them, the persons who will provide care or at the home of the parents and their own home and thus create a secure and sustainable working environment. A further important provision contained in the amendment is the sign of diversity. The trade mark will therefore be awarded to public and private enterprises as a reward for the integration of strategies and for the implementation of actions promoting equal treatment and equal opportunities in the workplace and contributing to the fight against discrimination on grounds of race, colour, ethnic or ethnic origin, genealogical payments, religious or other beliefs, disability, chronic illness, age, family and social status, identity, or other gender characteristics, which are grounds for direct or indirect discrimination of a person. The acceptance and inclusion of diversity in employment has been shown to bring benefits to businesses themselves. It provides a step for people with different features and ideas, which can lead to the design and promotion of services and products and be better adapted to the constantly evolving market environment, having a competitive advantage and a head start, and thus expanding the market cycle and the customers of a business. Above all, the acceptance of the differential of each person in the workplace results from the principle of respect for each individual's dignity. The signal of diversity also helps to create a culture of zero tolerance to discrimination. With the activation of this provision, we in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will proceed with the implementation of a "Diversity Awareness" programme with resources from the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which will create a model of integration, diffusion, measurability and evaluation of political diversity in the public and private sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, we consider that steps have been taken to support women, particularly in the last two years, in order to ensure their place in education, training and ultimately at work. The framework, therefore, for the regulation of services at home for infants and infants with the financial support of the benefiting parents through this 'Neighbourhood dadads', also covers gaps and meets the current needs of the working parents. Following Law 4808, which introduces leave and facilities for parents and protects their jobs, this action also strengthens the scope of measures to harmonise family and working life and promotes the accessibility of women to the labour market. In this way, there is also another government commitment to practical assistance and support for family and young parents, and another step is being taken towards gender equality - substantial and not theoretical - to balance their roles at all levels. And this will continue with even greater consistency in the years to come, because it is a national need, national responsibility and a social demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u169	Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, obviously the action which you have analysed is an action which we too consider to be potentially and theoretically in the right direction. It's your election commitment, of course. I would therefore like to ask you why two years now there has been no consultation or discussion with preschool education providers. In fact, it came on the eve of the bill, as if there were some unfamiliar problem with us, and it is a matter that you have said it for two years and for which you know there is a broad consensus. However, you do not consult and bring it on and say that it will be piloted this year and refer to ministerial and joint ministerial decisions which are unknown when they will be adopted. You have also been talking about universal application since 2022, when you know that in 2022 you will not even be able to launch the pilot application. That's something you know very well. I fear that something you have said in an abstraction of your speech will not complement all pre-school education structures, such as nursery, infant and pre-pre-school stations, which have another mission, which you agree with, as Mrs Michailidou agrees with, and gravity in the development of children. It is another part of pre-school education and stations that operate years with structures, with program and specific specifications and another to say that we are simply giving a voucher to someone to get it out of a register and without building specifications, without programming and referring it to all decisions. I think you're wrong all this and at the same time I'm afraid you're directly or indirectly undermining the viability of pre-school treatment structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u172	Here, Madam Secretary, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Firstly, the programme has been announced that we have been working on it for too long and have been cofinanced. You are well aware that a programme to be mature and generally funded by the European Commission should be carried out, a pilot run should be carried out and an evaluation immediately thereafter. We have entered that logic and the study has been carried out. Our certification has been assisted by the EEAS that will make the certification programmes, which means a state body, while at the same time the GSP. Therefore, the institutional framework that has been created is fully regulated plus the fact that with the pilot implementation and the platform that will operate, there will also be an on-going evaluation of the programme so that in practice there are some points that need to be changed, at the same time. And that's the most important thing. But the essence of the project is that. And the essence of this programme, this action, is within what we have all agreed on together. Since the first time I have said something I have said everywhere, that if demographic policy is not uniform, it is not long, and if there is no cross-party consensus as far as possible, we will do a hole in the water again. We will not, however, lead to that. We will continue what all of us have agreed together, and we will be able to bring them into practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mrs Skondra has the floor now from New Democracy and immediately afterwards Mr Vassilis Vassilis Vassilis. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, social protection and, in particular, the protection of the most vulnerable group of citizens, that is, children, is a basic obligation for every state. These are fundamental issues to which no sterile opposition conflicts exist. The draft law we are debating concerns four major pillars of social policy. Firstly, there is the creation of a framework of prevention and protection arrangements against the abuse of minors in child protection structures. Secondly, the "CYPSHI" programme is being established to upgrade the quality of the services provided to infants, infants and children's stations. Thirdly, the existing legal framework is enriched and strengthened by provisions to promote the assumption and adoption of minors. Fourthly, the ‘Personal assistant’ programme is introduced for disabled people for their practical daily support. I congratulate the Minister and the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna Michailidou, who is fully designed, with methodicity and hard work today introducing this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the hope that opposition parties this time, and for this matter they would have escaped from their one-tonin opposition ostrich. I thought that, as for us, the protection of the country's greatest good, its children, would be dominating. I'm afraid I'm offended. And I am very surprised when I hear SYRIZA's rapporteur talking about 'empty shirts', about communication bubbles and panic bills. By their own hand, they may judge the alternators, because panic in their own seats has settled. And it makes sense to panic, because Mitsotakis and his government have received a country under dissolution, with illegal immigration, with pandemic, Turkey, natural disasters, all of this at the same time, and in two years' time it has done things unbelievably. It is now equipping Greece and for the next twenty years it is making it a dominant power in the Eastern Mediterranean. And instead of pleading with SYRIZA their satisfaction, they express reservations. Panic and micropsy together! It is not "empty shirt" the continuous and more effective shield of the new generation, prevention and treatment of child abuse. It is not a communication bubble to establish equal opportunities in pre-school age, to destabilise children, to provide supplies and assistance to SMEs to achieve their independent living. This is undoubtedly important provisions that demonstrate the seriousness, social care and social sensitivity of the government. Another had the name, and another has the grace, dear to SYRIZA! The "empty shirt", the myth and supposedly was the social sensitivity of SYRIZA. That's how they introduced themselves, falsifying so many years of society. Ladies and gentlemen, on the serious issue of child abuse, the state cannot only rely on warnings and on the well-being of operators' staff. Today there is no institutional framework that prevents and treats abuse. It is therefore necessary to lay down horizontal rules for all child protection actors, closed care structures, pre-school treatment units, campsites and CDIs. Our legal arsenal acquires a clear definition of what 'child abuse' is for the first time. The obligation to notify the competent authorities of each incident shall be laid down immediately. The personnel of bodies shall be trained to identify more effective risks and to recognise in the image and behaviour of children signs of abuse. The obligation of a white penal register of workers in child protection and care structures for minors is laid down. Someone will not be allowed to be near children if there is no fitness check. At the same time, a mechanism for recording abuse incidents is introduced, the function of which is entrusted to the person responsible for the protection of minors who will report them directly to the competent public prosecutors. With regard to pre-school education now and to the "CYPSHI" programme, in our country today there is a fragmented and inefficient system. The Government is continuing to modernise and move into a single system of pre-school education, without social or economic constraints, providing services of high standards. It is a change concerning infants, infants and children's stations, public, private and municipal, and it touches all preschool children. With the program "CYPHEL" the child is focused. Modern pedagogical methods are introduced, children's personal needs are met and their skills are cultivated. The mechanism of early detection of mental learning and psychosocial difficulties in infants and infants by specially trained personnel is of paramount importance. The aim is to diagnose and early intervention that will spectacularly improve the functionality of children. The semi-autonomous Living programme of persons of 15 years or more concerns the dehabilisation of children and adults living in closed care structures. They are innocent souls who have experienced their tenderest years in institutions. It is our duty - I stress - to contribute to their reintegration into society, in a smooth and secure way. These adolescents should be helped to cultivate self-confidence and ability to live independently. The state must support their studies and facilitate their professional orientation and training. And he's doing it through this program. Since July 2020, the National System of Assignments and adoptions has been in operation. However, the integration of all children into the system and the prospects of family rehabilitation were found to be unsatisfactory. That is why we are making improvements, following European standards. Our aim was and remains the facilitation in the process of finding foster parents, so that as many children as possible find a family. Finally, there is the establishment of staff of disabled persons, in which we strengthen the possibility of independent living together of our fellow citizens, we facilitate their participation in social and working life and, at the same time, help their families to meet their obligations. The pilot project of the Personnel Assistant will have access to all disabled persons, regardless of their type and without any other provision or service they already receive. Ladies and gentlemen, with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our country belongs to the first countries of the Union that integrate the European guarantee for children. It is our basic commitment to shield rights and to effectively protect children and adolescents. To this end, I consider it a moral obligation for all colleagues - especially women who, as mothers, are even more concerned with child abuse - to contribute positively and to support this draft law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Vasiliadis has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mrs Brysidou. Here, Mr Vasiliadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us another draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which serves the goal set by the New Democracy in its Programme in 2019 for a broad and strong social protection grid for vulnerable social groups, and in this respect for children and disabled people. The legislative initiative moves around five axes and includes a wide range of regulations that already improve existing provisions, without canceling existing provisions. The first axis concerns the prevention and treatment of incidents of child abuse and neglect, with emphasis on child protection bodies. The obligation to take action shall be introduced in cases of abuse or neglect of minors and shall be designated as the person responsible for the protection of minors. The state also ensures that people who have been convicted of offences involving any form of child abuse or exploitation cannot offer work, even voluntarily, to juveniles. A national digital mechanism for recording and monitoring reports is also established for better monitoring, management and prevention of incidents of child abuse. The second axis concerns the "CYPSHI" programme to upgrade the quality of the services provided to infants, infants and children's stations. This is a modern pedagogical programme, without social and economic exclusion, that aims to turn infant and infant stations from storage sites - or as I have heard many times and is particularly disturbing, 'a parking area for children' - into areas for the development of their personality, where they can take the necessary stimuli for the development of skills and the discovery of their talents. The "CYPSHI" programme will be assisted by the newly established National Council for Pre-school Education and Education, a collective advisory body providing specialized scientific support for stations. The third axle contains provisions to promote assumption and adoption. This is a matter for which the Ministry's leadership really has a wealth of work. The central political direction is once again decoupling so that children in closed structures find their own family and receive the necessary supplies for their social reintegration. Measures shall be taken to ensure that infants do not need to be housed in an institution to register approved juvenile contractors' registers, but to enter the reception system directly from the hospital. The age limits are widened for those who are allowed to become contractors and therefore are increasing potential fostering parents, while at the same time the role of the social advisor who supervises the privileged structures is strengthened. And we now come to the disabled, namely the fourth axis on the introduction of assistant staff. Again, decoupling is the central political direction, with the aim of independent living for these people and supporting their families. Families with AME members are encouraged to be eligible for all persons, irrespective of disability category and living conditions, without any impact on the privileged allowance through APEKA. The integration and equal participation of disabled people in all aspects of social, economic and cultural life have been a commitment of the New Democracy and significant steps have been taken towards this by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Proof is the allocation of more than EUR 42 million from the Recovery and Resilience Fund for the pilot phase of this action. Finally, the fifth axis contains provisions concerning the operation of private and public welfare institutions, such as extension to ancillary labour contracts or the EUR 180 million funding programme for fifty thousand new jobs at nurseries from 2022 onwards. The Council of the European Union's recommendation is also followed for actions to promote access for all children to quality education, healthy nutrition, care and housing. In this context, adolescents aged 15 and over - always in the logic of dematerialisation - are allowed to join a 'High-autonomous Living' programme with rent subsidies and construction costs, as well as to strengthen their skills in order to interconnect with the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the support of the Greek family is at the heart of the principles and values of the New Democracy. We are deeply responsible for protecting children and vulnerable members of our families, including people with disabilities, minors and adults. The draft law under discussion serves precisely this policy through the strengthening of public and private bodies, civil society, as well as local government agencies, which actually raise a great deal of it. I call on the House to vote in favour. Before I conclude, Mr President, I should like to refer to the amendment, which is a general number of 1090 and a special 88, which provides, inter alia, for the reduction of the necessary number of characters from a hundred to fifty for the insurance and unemployment subsidy of seasonal workers to tourist and food professions. This regulation was implemented last year because of the exceptional conditions of the pandemic. It also contained seasonal workers from other sectors, such as workers from processing plants, dialogue workers, who are truly seasonal workers. Unfortunately these reasons exist this year, and indeed in many parts of the country, such as my own region, Pella, where we also had additional effects from extreme weather events, such as frost in the spring of 2021. Many seasonal workers have not been able to obtain these hundreds of alcohol needed due to a reduction in the demand for work. I think the government will see to it that these people are covered this year. It's really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Bryzidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill to be voted on is a bill dealing primarily with children and people with disabilities. That is why we must show a particular sensitivity and care in this direction. The bill comes to fill gaps, bring progressive solutions, make areas for important issues that concern our country, society and social structures in general. I'll start with the kids. The kids are sensitive. They are innocent souls that need care and security. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case for all children. Some of them are abandoned, some have no parents, who either lost in accidents or got sick, some are neglected, while their parents live, because they are in a morbid environment or because major problems and needs do not allow their parents to take care of them. Many children are forced to be in social protection and childcare structures so that they can live. These children and all the children I mentioned before who are in this situation, except that they do not feel the care they should be caring for, often fall victim to verbal, physical, psychological, and even sexual abuse, which can happen even in their wider family environment or the wider friendly environment. We are talking about a tragic event which, as a country, as a citizens, cannot be ignored as a parliament. We need to take steps and we need to put our seal on to stop this phenomenon. This is what the Ministry is doing with the measures it takes and the laws it brings, in principle it aims to stop this phenomenon, but on the other hand it marks the message that we are here and we are seeing this tragic event and we are determined to stop it with these laws and possibly in the future with other interventions when they are not enough. So there is the child's responsible protector, a social worker in the structures, who is specially trained to monitor children living in these structures, sees whether there are strange behaviours, whether children have somehow been abused - at least if physically abused are evident - they approach them to enable children to speak and thus reveal the one who works at the expense of the children. At the same time, there is a digital record where all these phenomena are denounced and rules are in place for people working in these structures who are controlled to have a purely criminal record, not only to have not been convicted, but not even to have been accused of domestic violence, sexual harassment, trafficking or drug use. All of this protects not only children, but it protects society as a whole, because anyone who abuses a child if we look into history can abuse if they are inside the family and the mother and in general will follow other offences because these naturalities and these people are specific. So this care is being taken is in the right direction. However, we have heard from the Opposition and, above all, from the side of the Officerial Representation that perhaps it could be a little different, the responsible person is not through the structure because the child may be afraid to denounce, perhaps to cover up his colleague and various other positions. First of all, this has to be tackled. Today, this ministry and the current government have a responsibility to bring down laws and suggestions and that is what it is doing. At the moment, if there are any other points of view to be tabled, but to that extent, because if we find excuses and in principle do not support such laws, then we really do not help in the direction that the new generation needs, which these children need. The abuse is not a fact on whose back we can play political games or it suits us to say that the law is not so good, so the government and the Ministry are not working so well. We have a great responsibility to the children, and I think that the best thing to do is to join in, to inform in the best possible way, to encourage everyone and in whatever areas that happen, so as to reveal the persons who operate in this negative way, to marginalise and to be punished. There is also a law and provision for preschool age up to four years old. It is crucial and important that we modernise ourselves, that we receive the new data. It's not the way it was a few years ago. The pandemic took place for a long time in the homes of preschool children, for which the kindergarten, the kindergarten, is a place that plays multiple roles now. So the programme must be modernised, done in such a way that it can provide the child with what he needs, the game, the reading and, more generally, the recommendations of experts to make the best possible programme. I do not understand why there should also be comments in this speech. It was also heard that 'in the past we had made very good moves'. And? What does that mean? Since someone was in the past, they shouldn't be in the present. And because some good ideas and some good interventions want to help children in pre-school age are from today's government and we are in Anti-Policy, do we have to denounce them? And finally, I want to refer to all the neighborhood nannies. I want to refer to the people who are staring at the house from two months to two and a half years old and to see the reality. Is there anyone who knows that this is done over time, not just for the need from rolling hours, by the self-employed? It was necessary and necessary. But until now there has been no safety for this worker, there has been no control of certain conditions, so some people have been able to work, but there has not been any real employment, but there has also been no minimum safeguard. I would also like here to refer to the anxiety of the new mother and the new father, the children looking for the cut to support their family and, at the same time, to pay attention to their children. So we don't care about them, we don't show care and interest, we don't care right now when the bill is being discussed, to express our objections, because it's probably not the best way. There were women looking at the children at home and now they're getting better. This is a fact and we should not question it. Finally, I want to close up the issue of people with disabilities and say this. A disabled person knows his Golgotha and also his family. And in this area, what we are taking is positive and any aid is important. Now we're expecting the personal assistant. It is an important part, it will help families and people, financed by the Recovery Fund. We are lucky to have the opportunity to secure these funds and to support a sensitive sector, the people with disabilities, which, unfortunately, we are all in favour, we all support and support, but the New Democracy Government with this ministry brings it as a suggestion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too. The reason is now the Deputy Minister, Domna Michailidou, and immediately thereafter Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou, from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with a personal report. It's the first bill we put to the vote without our partner and friend Fotis Papadopoulos. Fotis, like us, would be proud of the problems we solve, would be surprised and angry with the popular reactions we have received, would be the key man to have done it even better and would be deeply concerned to move on immediately. His absence is for us to be tortured every day. But he keeps us optimistic that our work has been watered down by his spirit, his morality and this bill. The bill concerns not only the most vulnerable, but millions of Greeks and Greeks. It is a bill that really proves the change of example about how we plan, but also how we implement social policy in our Government, the change, for example, where we have had a passively subsidised social policy, now we are going to an active social policy based on services and based on the independent living of all our fellow citizens. I would also like to raise the objections, if you like, to the committee's debates on this bill. First objection from the Qualified Objection. I read in writing: "We are panicked as a government and we have rushed away to table the bill in order to change a painful political agenda for us." If you really think our bill has the power to change the political agenda, then you recognise that it is a worthwhile bill, which deserves serious and responsible debate. And that is what we are asking of all the Members of the parties. The second thing we have heard in the committees: we have heard objections to the many powers we have. And I ask: Since when does the number of authorizing provisions in itself constitute a presumption of a bad law? Is Mr. 4538 bad because he has eleven authorizing provisions? No, he's bad for other reasons, not because he has eleven authorized provisions. Our law has eleven authorized provisions and provides for the adoption of equal number of ministerial decisions that emerge from it. But these ministerial decisions are ministerial decisions which must be laid down by secondary legislation. The material of what the daily day-care facilities will contain is something that should be dynamic, which every year, more often in time, should be changed, we want it to be changed. Equally, everything that specializes in the staff assistant. It is not every time we want to change - and we do not want to - and the competent body, the National Pre-school Education Council will make its suggestions, convened by the House and vote on the recommendations which it has given to be made every quarter, every four months by the National Pre-school Education Council. Third and last criticism was, he says, that the funding on which our bill is based is, he says, European and not national resources. Is that a presumption of bad law? I would say, on the contrary, that we have a government which, at a time of pandemic, finds European resources - over ECU 565 million, over half a billion - so that what it legislates can implement. Now I'm gonna sit on four parts of our bill, starting with the provisions against child abuse. I think you all know this now, which all Members of Parliament may have known before this bill: there was no coherent framework for the prevention and treatment of child abuse in Greek law. There was nothing like that. What happened is that in the nobleness of every man who worked, who worked with a child, he was whether he could be sufficiently careful in this part. No, we can't do that. The elimination of child abuse is the minimum common denominator to have a state that protects its children. So what do we do? Two things. The first is that we establish the white criminal record for certain offences, such as the insult of sexual dignity, human trafficking, drug trafficking, domestic violence, as an essential condition for working in child protection structures together with our children. One cannot be convicted of paedophilia, for example, working at a private nursery. This is not the case and will not happen after this bill has been passed. The second thing we do in all these structures - we are talking about nurseries, children's camps, creative employment centres, we are equally talking about institutions where children are staying - and each of these structures will have a social worker, which is provided for as a speciality in their licensing, which will be the reference point, so that these children, their families, their relatives have a human being who knows, a man in the structure they trust, who will speak and record these data and then give them to the competent authorities, the prosecutor and the police. Of course these will be recorded centrally in the National Centre for Social Solidarity, so that then the corresponding check can be made as to whether the structures follow the legislation. Second part: "BYSLE" programme, pre-school education. What do we know? We know that there is no single programme at nurseries. What we know from where it started, if you want, the whole debate and the whole very great need to establish a single programme for nursery stations is that the slap in children's skills in six months between the richest and the poorest children is very small and this small slap is explained by the different eating habits of their parents. In the four years, however, this gap in the skills of the richest and the poorest 10% of the children is growing too much, is overcrowded. And the explanation behind the opening of the lane of inequality is pre-school treatment. That's where we invest. We are investing in a single programme, so that the state is no longer responsible for the livestock sector alone, both for staffing, but also for being responsible, so that we can give equal opportunity to all our children. Inside this, a vital part of the program is to have early detection of disabilities, early detection of disorders, early detection of learning difficulties. Because where there is early detection, there is an early diagnosis, and where there is early diagnosis, there is early intervention. And it must take place until the age of four. We can't be late any longer. Thirdly, the key intervention of our bill is the entire effort we are making to decouple. I heard before Members of the Change Movement ask this question: "Is there enough of the provisions we are going through to reduce the administrative burden for someone who wants to adopt a child?" That is a reasonable question, but it is not the question we need to ask. The question we need to do is if we have done everything we can to get the kids out of the foundations. Yeah, we're doing everything we can. Because the children who are in the foundations are not as many of us might imagine them, they are not infants whose mother took them into a basket and left them in a hospital one day. They're kids older. They're kids who have a family and they're older. That is why it is mostly suitable only for the assumption. Finally, in 2020, we collected all these data and quarterly we take them off on the platform that we have built the new www.paidi.gov.gr. Do me a favor and enter and see the profile of these children, their age and demographics. And what do we say? We're doing everything we can for the assumption. We have introduced a single allowance, which is received electronically. We have done well, and now we do two more key things: We are building roofs of autonomy, not that we have taken our minds off, but that UNICEF has proposed them, so that children do not stay in buildings that are like and have the needs of other times, but homes, buildings normally, homes like yours and as mine. That's where we want the kids to stay. We are also broadening age limits so that we have more contractors at the ages proposed by the experts. Finally, a personal assistant. The "Personal Assistant" is a very large part which is done and done in a year which is difficult, difficult to finance, difficult health and health, because in order to protect the elderly and even more difficult, people with disabilities within the pandemic, we have done a great deal of work. But we are moving forward, changing page, making reforms. That is why we are saying that we are making an active policy. With the "Personal Assistant" we finally give the disabled person the opportunity to take life in his own hands, as he wants, to be able to hire a man of his choice so that he can get out of the house, go to university, go to work, go to the supermarket, use the computer or learn to use the computer. It is a constant request for the disabled movement, for disabled people and their families, which is decades ago. I say again in a very difficult year to implement. I would like to say here that we are not accepting the amendment by KINAL. The reason why we are not accepting it is as follows: we most agree with everything you are proposing, but we consider that they are already included in our legislation. Firstly, for RESEMA and being in consultation before the adoption of the joint ministerial decisions, we are in very close contact, as we should, with RESEMA, either personally or institutionally, the entire Ministry every day. We can't make policies for people with disabilities without people with disabilities. So that's already what's happening. With regard to mental disability, of course - and I say it again - we incorporate all the disabilities, mobility, neurodevelopment, mentally and mentally. All the disabilities are within the "Personal Assistant" and we even use the broad definition of the international convention so that we do not have any deviation from it. The third part of your amendment, which we also consider is that we do not need and need to do so, is to include in the bill that we are financing this programme centrally. We have already integrated the "personnel assistant" into the new programme, the new ESDP, so we have already secured 320 million funds for the national rollout, which we are talking about, for the national implementation of the staff assistant. Let me close. I really thought that someone who cares about social affairs - I am telling you, with all my heart - that there is no way he can disagree with our bill. But I was wrong. I was really wrong. For the first time, we are establishing a mechanism to prevent and treat children's protection, and what does the Opposition have to say about it, which is voting from what seems to be negative at the outset? I read from comments from the Commission: that we do not do this because it will favour conditions for relations between corruption and transaction. For the first time, we give the nurseries the educational role they deserve, the pedagogical role they deserve. And what do you have to say about it? That you're against the single program and you're accusing us of unscientificism. Please read the relevant biography and do not insist on positions that have been revised for decades. For the first time, we set up a monitoring and early diagnosis system at each station. What are you talking about here? That we're making the children's electronic freckles! For the first time, we are implementing a timeless, permanent request of the disabled movement, the 'Personal assistant', and what do you say about it? You are voting against it at first because you say that we are doing it with European money. We're setting up measures to get the children out of the foundations and go to the right family, and you're telling us it looks like you're a very big man of seventy-five years old. And what do we do about it? You know, one doesn't legislate with one's opinions, one doesn't legislate on what one believes and what the trouble thinks. Oh, no. We put the principles and objectives in place. The implementation measures are proposed by experts. And what better than the Citizens' Counselor and UNICEF? Unfortunately, I did not expect this attitude and especially those who call themselves the left. Unfortunately, however, I find an explanation that does not honor you. You consider it more important not to deviate from this opposition tactic 'not to everything'. Do you understand what you're voting against, really? Do you understand what you're voting against? Stern in Maria, the paraplegic student at the University of Northern Aegean, can go to the university, listen to her homework with the assistant. You are resting in the fifteen-year-old George and the 20-year-old Vasilis, who live in the Papafios of Thessaloniki – and yes, the twenty-year-old is unfortunately still in our institutions – you deny them the possibility of having an autonomous life, coming out of the foundation and having a normal, normal life, in a normal home, with a normal everyday life. You are resting on the five-year-old Giannakis, at his critical age, who lives in a rural region of western Macedonia, the opportunity to receive the appropriate treatment for him. Because if Giannakis is diagnosed at his six and not at his four, we propose with the "BYCHILE" project, then he may not be operational for the rest of his life. Because, ladies and gentlemen, behind this debate, they are people, they are real needs, they are great gaps. It is about the lives of millions of our fellow citizens. I'm hanging up with this. When we visited Drama's orphanage, a child approached my partner, Theodora, and you know what asked her? He asked her, "What do they say about us in the House?" Let us all consider the answer that we are giving this boy today with our vote and attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, may I have the floor for a moment, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, to clarify a few basic things. There is obviously a discrepancy between the legislative power and the executive. When, then, a bill, issues of content, unrestricted content, are referred by legislative power to the executive, to determine this content, it is as if Parliament were to give a white check. So we cannot vote on a white cheque. On the principle of provisions with which we obviously agree and support them. But when the precise content is not determined, we will not support them. Of course that's unconstitutional. It's an anti-constitutional bad legacy. We're not talking about technical issues. That's another one. We are not talking about other issues that are handled by CSMs. This is not what this is all about. Secondly, you have spoken about the use of European funds. Of course, there must be use made of European funds. But won't there be a more comprehensive plan so that by starting some pilot applications to see the follow-up? Do you hear that as a new problem? Haven't we seen such cases of pilot programs left in a vacuum? May I remind you of one that's about your ministry? The "KEA" that you had launched as a pilot project and came the government of SYRIZA to replace it with the minimum income. Can I tell you another programme that was launched as a co-financed and still afflicted by workers? It is "Help at Home". When the European funds ended, there was no care to keep up. We have been living this unacceptable event of the three thousand workers of "Help at home" who have been waiting for the results of the SAAP competition for a year. Why is that? One last, and I'll finish. Mrs Agathopoulos, the colleague from SYRIZA, made a specific reference to her intervention, which Mr. Xanthos also mentioned, for a distinction against a woman doctor who, while being judged to be typically all qualified and assessed capable of understanding the position of curator grade II, was cut because she had two children. I would expect of you that dozens of times you have come here and talked about the issues of discrimination, infertileity, to take a position. With Mrs. Gaga's signature, that's all. He's a member of your government. So that's what you're letting go of it? Is the solidarity of the ministers in what? So are the words big, heavy bells, with no content? Please very much if you want to comment on this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u185	Madam Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u186	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u187	The State Secretary, Mrs Michaelidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Skourlet, where should I begin? I think there's a confusion in your mind. I hope it's just confusion. A confusion between the difference between the programmes financed by the ESDP and what is pilot. When a project is pilot, it does not necessarily mean that it will be with an ESDP. In addition, ESDP funding, the pilot project. But I understand that at the moment even if there is a confusion you are blaming us both. And because we use ESDP resources to make major reforms and because we are doing pilot projects. Well, I have to say this. When your colleague in social policy ran all the programmes, such as community centres, social poverty structures, day-care stations with resources from the NRP, what did we do? What are we doing? Did we go out and go through them? I don't think so. On the pilot's side, he says it's not right to run pilots. I really don't understand that logic. How will anyone see if something is effective if he can't implement it...?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u189	What's next with the pilot?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u190	Why are you interrupting? Mr. Skourletis, listen carefully. He's answering. This is the parliamentary dialogue. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u191	How? I don't know. There's a science in the work that's done. There is one way in which someone starts and makes social policy. And to be honest, there is not just one way in which someone makes social policy. There is a way in general that someone is implementing their political planning. This is how it usually happens in the right economies and in the right societies. You're testing it. You see what works and what keeps working on what doesn't work, you fix it. That's what we did. We did it with all that we inherited and continued, and we do it with all the news that we are reforming. With regard to the pilot part to say: housing and work, relay, school meals, disinsurance, are pilot projects that have never been continued in their completion so that national programmes can be made by your own government. Your first comment was on the unconstitutionality of defining, as in the 'BYCLE' programme, so many extermination provisions. Looks like you haven't read the law well. But I am not surprised, nor do I think the Communism is surprised about that. The law prescribes the main principles of the programme. It defines its content. Why, while the content of the programme is defined in law, such as a game, workshops, cultural, technological, narrative, fairy tale, feeding, rest, do you think that a white cheque is given? Is it not the timeframe for these activities to be integrated into which to specialise the details required? What exactly is it? Or do you want to come here and vote for exactly the specialty so that you can come and talk to each bill about what's going down your cane? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u192	You forgot something. ...(not heard) for discrimination. And sometimes you've forgotten about other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Skourletis, you said it yourself. Answer it. We had this debate today in the Conference of Presidents. As soon as you have secondary dates, gather everything and at the end you say it. You will also be informed by the parties so that we can collect them a little, because we are creating a process arrhythmia and we are going back very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u195	Here, you have the floor. But please, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u196	Because Mr Skourletis returned to the subject raised by Mrs Agathopoulos to say that there is a statement from the Ministry of Health. Apparently you're acting like you don't see her. ‘Clarifications concerning rejection of a request for referral. With regard to the rejection of the request for referral lodged by a doctor of the Ministry of Health with regard to a decision of the ‘Laiko’ Hospital Crisis Receipts Board, the following points are set out below. According to the recommendations, the highest score was taken by the doctor who took one position of haematology or medical biopathology that was published to strengthen the hospital. The doctor in question had the most formal qualifications, qualifications and pre-services, hence the highest rating and family status with the complainant, although motherhood could in no way be a blocking factor in recruitment to the National Health System. However, it is noted that any reference to the family status of a candidate, although it does not affect the objective crisis, is considered totally unsuccessful. The interview did not overturn the ranking and therefore neither was the ranking. During the interview, both doctors asked about their family situation, a fact condemned by the civil leadership of the Ministry of Health and had already made recommendations, so that no such phenomena which are incompatible with self-evident equality and the rights of women and mothers at work were repeated. The relevant department of the Ministry of Health examined the relevant file and rejected the complainant's complaint - a request for referral - based exclusively on the merital criteria. The Deputy Minister, Mina Gaga, as a woman, mother and doctor, fully supports maternity and as Minister, could never tolerate inequality to the detriment of women working in the ESS. Besides, as a clinical director and head of medical service at the hospital "Salvation" she supported and supports pregnant colleagues and mothers who, just like all health care professionals, are serving the National Health System. A press release from the Ministry of Health on 27 September.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs Alexopoulou, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to statistics the phenomenon of child abuse and neglect has been increasingly observed in recent years. And that means showing as a society and as a organised state, greater attention and awareness so that we can tackle the problem at its root. A broader plan is needed to protect children and generally vulnerable social groups. And that - let me say it - is not covered in any way by this bill. I would therefore like to make a few comments. Article 1 shall refer to the definition. What exactly does child abuse recommend? Here could be within concepts such as 'bad treatment','sexual abuse', 'interpretation', adding the term 'parent alienation', the mentality of a child, when for some reason it deprives one parent of his or her right to alienate from him against his or her will, what experts call 'drugs between parent and child'. So the definition would be more comprehensive. It is very important that Article 5, too, defines the person responsible for the protection of minors. In addition to the formal criteria laid down in the article, should we not have a more detailed description on its role or on the terms of office, but on the standards of selection of these people? For example, in what sensitive cases the pure criminal record is not sufficient. It is not enough, however, for a man to take such a neuroalgic position. In other words, the criteria should be more stringent and complex. Of course, it is very important for what we mean as staff skills, which Article 8 is trying to identify. We're talking about child abuse. How exactly do we ensure that the staff of a child protection body have the necessary knowledge and experience to identify the signs of abuse, but also to provide immediate help to quickly heal wounds to children's souls? Of course it is necessary that such a draft law also provides for the continuing training of qualified staff, which can be adapted at any time to the most difficult conditions. A parentheses. In circular 63877, as of 31 August 2021, at the initiative of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and the theme "Compulsory vaccination of CSR - ACE and CSR" and in the context of preventive measures against Coronovirus, children with development disabilities and mental discomfort, who their parents did not want to inoculate, for reasons that the State must respect, since it concerns an indiscriminate human right. This act is a maximum abuse of the children of HEIs. Madam Minister, since we are discussing this issue, why, while they can enter their special school with a simple self-test, are they deprived of their equally important socialisation and restoration structure for reasons that cannot stand up to the judgment of common sense and the legislation protecting their human rights? It is not possible for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to work on them to force parents to inoculate them by force. They do not match our democratic citizens and the sacrifices that Greeks have made to operate principles that respect human value in our legal culture. I urge, Minister, that you cancel the Circular above and allow children with developmental and mental disabilities to participate in the AACC under the same conditions and conditions as they are admitted to special schools. On this occasion, I would like to tell you something from my own personal experience. I, too, went through the disability certification committees, and I have experienced it three times and I know it - lift your shirt in front of so many people, to establish the disability, which is humiliating to people. Couldn't a parade come in to examine the patient individually? As, of course, so many complaints have been made at times that these committees are smoking - yes, they are smoking - before the sufferers, which, fortunately, has stopped after complaints from many citizens. And I ask you: can you imagine experiencing this, a minor with disabilities, being exposed to common sight in front of the committee and feeling the devaluation of human dignity and personality? That's not mental abuse, is it? How else could we characterize it? Children, who will then have wounds for an entire lifetime, wounds that no doctors heal. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, to say two words about Part IV of the bill, concerning the "Personal assistant" for disabled people. Refers to Article 27: ‘Personal assistant’s programme is established for disabled persons as a means of improving their quality of life’. And below “... recipients of assistant staff are disabled, regardless of disability category and living place”. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, because I too waited too long to speak. Thank you very much. One observation. Shouldn't Article 27 be more detailed? What, for example, will happen after people with mental discomfort or those who belong to the spectrum of autism? Aren't these people going to be entitled to a personal assistant? Even if we accept that this article shows goodwill towards the LEADER, however it is very general and superficial, excluding entire categories of people with disabilities from the "Personal Assistant" programme. Moreover, it is true that there is not even in the draft law a specific description of what the personal assistant for the AMD is, what his responsibilities include, what his duties are. I am sorry to say so, but it could be with such a serious subject that there is greater transparency, as well as a more thorough analysis of what the "Personal Assistant" AMEAN is, of course, not to exclude so many of our fellow people from a state's beneficial programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, too. Ms Helen Rapti from New Democracy has the floor now, and immediately after Ms. Meropi Jufi from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u200	You missed me again, Mr President. I was after Mrs Alexopoulou, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u201	There's been a consensual change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u202	I've been waiting so long, excuse me very much. And in the last list I got before, I lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u203	Nobody's been wronged. Mrs. Raptus has changed with Mr. Kotso. There's been a trillion, I'd say, with Mr. Kotsos, Mr. Vassiliade, Mr. Kouvella and Mrs. Rapt. There have been internal consensual changes. No one's lost her in his turn. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill with a very strong social character. On all the issues it regulates, from the prevention and treatment of neglect and abuse incidents of minors, until the upgrading of nursery stations and from the promotion of assumption and adoption, to the very sensitive provision of personnel for disabled people, the bill touches the entire Greek society and demonstrates the commitment of government policies on social top issues. Because of my many years of involvement with the issue of child abuse as a coordinator of the "One in Five" programme of the Council of Europe to end the phenomenon, you will allow me to focus the few minutes of my position in Part I of the bill. Having identified institutional malfunctions over the last eight years and with the aim of always creating child-friendly procedures, I have had the opportunity to discuss with the Minister and the State Secretary responsible the creation of procedures and conditions for protecting children in practice and to table proposals. The new provisions of the bill are in this direction. And I feel very pleased and optimistic. The new law creates a specific framework to prevent and deal with incidents of child abuse and neglect. Strict rules are introduced to control and operate child protection bodies, including all private and public welfare providers providing child care services. More specifically, firstly, an obligation to report incidents of child abuse. Entities shall now have a responsibility to promptly deal with cases of child abuse and neglect and to notify the competent authorities of any oral or written surname or anonymous report of any incident of child abuse and of any incident involving child abuse wherever it occurs otherwise in their understanding, including the incidents taking place in the provision of social care services by childcare providers. Secondly, the definition of the person responsible for the protection of minors and its legal protection. A child protection officer’s position shall be established to each child protection body in order to gather and record the incidents and to notify them immediately to the competent authorities. The duties of child protection officer shall be entrusted by the Director of the unit to a member of staff - social worker or psychologist - and in the absence of a member of specialisation relating to child protection by means of a specific reasoned decision. The institution shall be required to clearly display the name, contact details and channels of communication with the child protection officer. Very important, too, is the provision of the legal protection of minors who are responsible for the protection of minors when they report a case of abuse, namely that they should not be indicted, subjected to disciplinary action, that they should not be made redundant and that there should not be any other sanctions or discrimination. Thirdly, the loss of employment of staff in child protection bodies. The employment of staff in children's protection bodies is now under special conditions. Employment in persons who have been sentenced irrevocably or for whom criminal proceedings are pending or sentenced, which has not become irrevocable for crimes against sexual freedom, for domestic violence, for trafficking in human beings and narcotics. In particular, an obligation is introduced to produce or exonerate a search, a copy of a criminal record of general or judicial use, and a declaration by a responsible party showing that the person concerned has not been convicted and has not been pending against the criminal prosecution of the above offences. Let me give a thought to the creation of a special criminal record for these categories of offences mentioned in this bill, in order to protect the personal data of workers who may have been convicted of other acts which have no relevance to the matter. Such a specific criminal record, exclusively for child abuse offences, could be based on the criminal record for judicial use rather than on that for general use, since it is reasonable in such a case that the usual rules for the general use of the relevant offences should not apply. Fourth, National System for Recording and Monitoring of Minor Maligration Cases. The National System for Recording and Monitoring of Reports introduced by the Act is also a major step forward, since a detailed statistical illustration of the incidents is now provided to help in a holistic management of the issue with measures, policies and interventions. The creation on the substance of a record of abused children provided for in the bill is an extremely positive addition to the fight for the protection of children. Ladies and gentlemen, with these provisions, the protection of minors is being claimed, as a specialised and therefore more effective framework for the management of the incident is introduced. By adapting the institutional functions we can achieve a quantitative reduction in the cases that occur, as well as an increase in the cases mentioned. Considering that only two percent of the incidents reach the authorities - the rest are covered by silence - the interventions in the bill can make a great contribution to prevention, early detection and treatment of cases. Feeling that we are all united in a common struggle, any positive intervention, any positive proposal that strengthens this framework for the protection of minors is a profit for children and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Athanasios Liutas will speak from New Democracy, and then Mr. Vassilis Kokalis will speak from SYRIZA. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Although the time is last, I can only begin my position with the explosive conditions in the field of education. For three consecutive days, yesterday and the day before yesterday, in Stavroupolis and today in Eusmos, we are attending schools to be converted into hostages of right-wing students who, with molotovs, stones and banners attack students, parents and students. They are images of disgrace both for democracy and for education. Just a year after the condemnation of the Golden Dawn and a few days after the anniversary of the murder of the Paul Physsa, the reappearance of chrysalicy creeps us out. It is also embarrassing to see the government's attitude, a attitude of equal distance, which favours the expansion of such attitudes on the extreme right. Annoying by the Minister of Education Niki Kerameos, who only does to challenge and clash with the teachers, calling today for the strike to be declared illegal and abusive, abstentioned by evaluation, by preparing penalties and dismissals for those who keep the public school standing in very difficult conditions. 'I do not know, I have not seen' by the State Secretary, Mr Zetta Macrey. But the Deputy Minister, Mr Syrigos, has taken a step further today. He didn't see violence through school. He didn't see iron fists, molotov, students greeting Nazis. He saw violence outside school. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, stop playing this dangerous game to attach the votes of the Golden Dawn and the extreme right. Yesterday, he was Mr. Bogdanos with the list of shame, today, Mr. Syragos, with the selective vision. I come to the bill under discussion today, a bill which actually refers to very important and sensitive issues of the protection of children, the disabled, the elderly. It should be a product of extensive consultation. But it's not. It has the majority of scientific and other bodies concerned with them and invited to implement it. Obviously here we have a bill which, as has been said, is communication tactics, voids of content, with ambiguities with generalities and, of course, with reference to all the critical issues in subsequent ministerial decisions. More specifically, for the 'BYSHEL' programme, which Mrs Michailidou is very proud of, and which, of course, will also be shaped in the future, what do we have to say? We have to say that it is a program that is built without taking into account the Greek reality. It is a random combination of foreign programmes since the 1970s in developing and non-member countries, but it is not based on a mapping of Greek data, Mrs Michaelidou. It is an arbitrary transfer of programmes designed first for developing countries. You are presenting to Greek nurseries that go so many thousands of children as parking children, without a pedagogical program, dismissing the skilled staff and workers as a whole. You underestimate the Greek university teachers who teach preschool education, the scientific companies, such as the Hellenic Psychology Society - if you like - and the municipal authorities and private nurseries but mostly the workers, excluding them from this project. Your proposal, which goes to implement this framework, is unfortunately not new or innovative. He discovers the game as a basic preschool education tool, which of course has been implemented for decades in Greece. It discovers the value of food for children's obesity when the New Democracy characterized the free Mediterranean school meals here ironically in this Chamber. But also scientifically, although the House is not a place to resolve these disputes, it is very debated, because the development stage of each child is unique and does not necessarily coincide with that of its peers, which is why we are talking about inclusion in all contexts. It always needs a personalised approach. The horizontal compulsory teaching and time schedule are undisciplined, it is inflexible and much more does not recognize the existing wide differences, geographical, cultural, social. Of course we say 'yes' to early diagnosis and early intervention, but this, Mrs Michailidou, requires that she be carried out in a specific age range. Do you know that there are no special diagnostic tools for all kinds of development disorders, in particular the autistic spectrum disorders that are the epidemic and we need to find them quickly and deal with them, which are ‘strong’ for this age that you say you are going to implement? They are mainly older in the context of pre-school education, in the four to six years, which we legislated as compulsory when you voted against and this is done in the European context. As for the development tests you said that we do not know them, like Denver test, I will tell you here that the pediatricians have been doing this for many years as a key part of the child's monitoring, that is to say, there is a need for development evaluation and it is provided to all children in the context of their basic pediatric monitoring. I would therefore say that you should listen more carefully, and I would say that at the very last moment you should withdraw this programme, that there should be a substantial dialogue on pre-school education in a context that takes serious account of the modern social environment, the scientific documentation produced by the scientific companies and bodies that will be invited to implement it, and of course the interests of the child. I come to the rooftops of semi-autonomous living, because time runs. Of course, we are in favour of decoupling and there are these roofs, which we have already carried out. One hundred and sixty such roofs have been integrated into the NSRF since 2019 with 50 million available and you have frozen them. But we are telling you that the age of sixteen is a critical age, and these juveniles should be in the foundations so that they can inevitably have psychosocial support and education in a fully protected environment critical to prepare them for their adult life. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, these are not SYRIZA's ideas. They have been submitted to the minutes by the relevant scientific bodies. All scientific bodies are opposed to the "BYCHEL" programme. The universities, the Pan-Hellenic Nurse Association, the private children's stations, and even the CDE representative tell you that there is a need for substantial dialogue. ESEMA points out to you that we are of course talking about the institution of the assistant staff. He's critical. We already announced him. However, what you are now saying is extremely limited and that expenditure is not so provided that it can be implemented for all our fellow citizens. And one more comment, even though time does not take me. We have the statement from the Director of the Institute of Psychiatric and Social Welfare of the Institute of Health of the Child, which I would remind you was created by the late professor of the Paediatrics Spyros Doxiadis, the reformer of the modern pediatric and developmental pediatric institution, Mrs Michailidou, and the Minister of Health of the New Democracy, who expressed his unpleasant surprise, because you did not take into account it and go to create another national record, abuse and neglect of the child only in the Ministry of Labour, where there is a public body with a very long tradition, interdisciplinary treatment of abuse, cooperation between the appropriate ministries, with a single modern system in eight European countries, fully successful, which does not only provide statistical information and education for the child with the participation of all the appropriate ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u207	Please, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u208	I shall conclude, Mr President. You must therefore give concrete answers and not do ironic, aggressive, deceptive and populist positions towards the whole of Anti-Population. We submitted to Parliament the national action plan for the child. You didn't bother. Then there was an action plan prepared by the SYRIZA government in 2018-2019 and made a series of legislations in a very difficult context, in the Memorandum in which you led the country and called for SYRIZA to be managed and so we return to you that we did not have time to bring up all the ruins you delivered us. We did, however, important things about taking on, adopting, for compulsory two-year pre-school education, increasing access for children to nursery schools and changing equipment, for school meals, for the commission of unaccompanied minors, for the universal and equal access of uninsured children, for the establishment of the family child and for the self-employed offices for the protection of minors, for the 'Homes of the child' and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u209	Mrs. Jufi, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u210	I shall conclude, Mr President. Could more be done? The answer is "yes", but there is a need for a substantial dialogue between the government, the opposition and the relevant bodies for a framework based on Greek data and serving the social needs it protects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, too. Mr. Athanasios Ljutas from the New Democracy has the floor. Then Mr. Vasileios will be given the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before us we have a bill which once again demonstrates the size of our commitment to the objective of social protection, the aim of defending the life and development of the child, the aim of supporting the most vulnerable social groups in our country. This bill goes on and helps children’s lives substantially and decisively. This is a very important issue, which concerns the cohesion of our social fabric, the development of our society and the great need to protect the innocent souls of Greece. Initially, it seeks to prevent and treat child abuse. In particular, all child protection bodies are obliged to act as soon as they become aware of them in any way involving the abuse or neglect of a minor. On behalf of each institution, there will be the person responsible for the protection of minors who, without delay, will undertake to record these incidents and forward them to the competent authorities. In this way we will ensure in our policy that no case of child abuse remains unpunished. At the same time, we are fighting for prevention. The breach of the agencies' obligations entails severe penalties, including fines of up to EUR 10,000, which can also be doubled, and the withdrawal of the body's certification. In addition, this bill comes with a provision covering a serious gap. In particular, all those working in child protection bodies with any employment relationship, even voluntary, should not have been convicted or even subjected to criminal prosecution for the offences of sexual freedom, domestic violence, human trafficking and drug trafficking. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the disclosure of child abuse phenomena, great weight is created in the breasts of all of us. Prevention is the only solution. The early identification of the risk and the immediate activation to address it is a one-way pathway. At the same time, this draft law extends age limits for persons authorised to become contractors. We must do our best for children who are in institutions so that they can join the new families smoothly. Our efforts are a major and most important social objective. Subsequently, with regard to the very important "CYPSHI" programme, which will initially be piloted, for the first time all public and private nursery and childcare stations have a specific and unified educational programme aimed at developing the skills of each child separately. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] In addition, for the first time, mandatory monitoring will be provided in relation to mental and mental development of infants and infants by specially trained personnel. The aim is to identify any learning difficulties and development problems in order to provide early support and intervention. The program "CYPHEL" aims directly at helping, developing and developing our children. It is an intervention of great importance. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this bill, an innovation of enormous social importance, the 'Personal assistant', is introduced for disabled people. The ‘Personal Assistant’, a programme which will also start to apply pilot projects, will support all persons with disabilities regardless of disability and living conditions. It will cover personalised needs and activities. This institution will support and help disabled people to improve their quality of life. It is an institution that will help these people to become active members of our society. At the same time, the institution of the "Personal Assistant" will also help the families of people with disabilities. Those families who care for their relatives, who have some form of disability, are well aware of the great help that institution will give their lives. Finally, one cannot stand by the programme of semi-autonomous living for teenagers living in closed child protection structures. This programme concerns adolescents aged 15 and over. His main objective is decoupling. All adolescents in society need care and support. This is exactly what this bill offers to children, which deserves a bright future and a great development. The state is here to support a lot of things. This bill expresses nothing less than our will to support and help, decisive aid, primarily to those of our fellow citizens, to those children who have to face a difficult starting point for their adult life or the threat posed by a sick danger. The state is here to support and undeniably put a network of protection. No crime against children should remain unpunished. Prevention is the most important thing. Let us try all with all our powers not to express itself. At the same time, the hand of help in the beginning of adult life for those children who are alone is the proof of the existence of a deep solidarity state. Life is ahead and we're here to make big fights for a better life, equal opportunities for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much for the time. Mr. Red has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill deals with concepts relating to sensitive social groups, infants, children, adolescents, people with disabilities. There is therefore a need for seriousness and responsibility in legislating. Any legislative intervention must be sound, effective and comprehensive. I would start differently, but, Minister, allow me this. You accused us of blaming the law. You said, in fact, that you consider what you are being charged with and what you are missing from the law, and that is why you define them by common ministerial decisions. One example in Article 45. Article 45 refers to the creation of new jobs for infants at existing or new stations of responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry implements a funding programme for the establishment of up to fifty thousand new jobs for infants. Right this far. Sounds good. And you invite us to vote. Who will be the body implementing this programme? Only with a ministerial decision. How much will it cost? With a ministerial decision. The board of directors of the body is considered a detail, Minister. This is defined by ministerial decision. This is specialization, but not the body itself. The amount of funding is not regarded as detail. How will you allow me to compare the purpose, the benefit and the costs of voting? A law is certainly judged by the act as a result. Before and above all, however, it must have some necessary structural elements. You tell us in this article that you create this and we ask: To create this, how much money will you spend? Who's gonna do it? And you're telling us it's details that it's a specialty. This law is not bad. It's not unclear, is it not vague? And today you are calling on us to say 'yes' on a number of issues, such as the 'personal assistant' of the disabled, to which we agree. But you are asking us to go beyond the duties and responsibilities, Minister. I told you one example. Who will implement it? The agency. Who is it? With a ministerial decision. Semi-autonomous living of children and dehydration. The Act mentions, in particular, Article 40, Minister, that the programme comprises three pillars, including work advice and association with the labour market. Hold that. Then you recently made an agreement with the Greek Chamber of Hotel, according to which children who live within structures will be able to work, sixteen years old. After the outcry you probably froze it. The word education, Minister, is absent from the semi-autonomous life of the school. Do you want these kids to provide cheap work?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u215	You found it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u216	Did we find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u218	Yes, sir! Tell us about the opposite! Can I think of a thought? Where and as long as they live within closed structures, it is impossible to provide the consent required by the law to work. But when he's in a semi-autonomous living regime, it's possible. Tell us about the opposite! Because I repeat that decoupling without access, equal access to education is not meant for these children, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the reduction of the allowances for the admission of children with disabilities. Obviously your theory is that welfare is the subject of charity and that only the wealthy can become contractors of children with disabilities. There is no other explanation of the decision in May 2021, on 26 May 2021, according to which you cleared the two allowances, the separate disability allowance and the assumption allowance, so that this expenditure has been reduced, when we know that the cost of caring for a disabled child is three times more than for a healthy child. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I should like to close by referring to the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which calls for a clearer working regime for workers on digital platforms. It was an opportunity - because we should not rest on the return of this company - to clarify and abolish this regime for children working on digital platforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u220	And finally, as far as pensioners' retrospectives are concerned, we must finally end the government's smuggling, almost the increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Konstantinos Kollias from New Democracy. Here comes Mr. Vartzopoulos and Mr. Tolkas. Please, in your time! Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill whose provisions are aimed at child protection, prevention and treatment of child abuse and neglect, the upgrading of social services, and the strengthening of support for disabled people and teenagers living in institutions. In addition, the bill incorporates positive actions and initiatives for pre-school education with the “CYPSHI” programme, as well as for assumption and adoption, while introducing the institution of the staff assistant for disabled persons. This is a bill that undoubtedly comes to cover serious gaps and years of problems on all the above issues. I'll start with Part I on the prevention and prevention of abuse. Here are the necessary definitions, such as, for example, the concept of child abuse. Furthermore, children's protection bodies are identified and the definition of the child protection officer is given, which is the natural person designated by each body for the recording of incidents of abuse. So for the first time in Greek law it is clearly defined what child abuse is. Prevention measures shall be taken and the obligation of the bodies to notify the competent authorities without delay of any incident arising in their understanding. On the basis of Article 5, a person responsible for the protection of minors shall be clearly identified, a person responsible for providing a copy of a criminal record and a declaration responsible for not being convicted of specific offences as described in Article 7. This is the person to whom references are addressed, which will be responsible for directly transferring them to the competent public prosecutors. Happily, it is Article 7, ladies and gentlemen, which introduces a radical regulation, since from now on no worker or volunteer should have been convicted or brought to the detriment of the criminal prosecution of offences against sexual freedom, domestic violence, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking. Therefore, all those who offer services to children's protective structures should submit a declaration and a copy of a criminal record showing that they are fit to be in the same space as children. Unfortunately, it is the attitude of the colleagues from Officerial Opposition, who are now undermining such an important legislative initiative, which both parents and the public are definitely embraced in general. Article 9 then provides for the creation of a fully updated database of the National System for Recording and Monitoring of Cases of Maligration. I now come to the second theme focusing on the 'BYCHEL' programme. This is a very ambitious programme aimed at upgrading pre-school education as a whole. It is crucial to stress here that for the first time regular monitoring and evaluation of the development of infants and infants by specially trained staff are introduced, with a view to the early diagnosis of learning difficulties, which parents themselves are in favour of. There is no question of a file, as was misleadingly heard by SYRIZA, since all personal data conditions will be fully respected. I'm continuing with Part III of the bill. With Articles 24 to 31, a series of improvements is achieved to stimulate more and more of our fellow citizens to take up and more children to find a family, while extending the age limits of foster parents. In addition, Part IV of our project aims to provide supplies and assistance to SMEs in order to achieve their independent living and destabilising. In particular, Article 34 inaugurates a new institution, a very important development for Greek data, the staff assistant. This person will support disabled people in their daily needs in order to become active members of society. I would also like to point out that all disabled people, regardless of disability category and living conditions, will be beneficiaries of the services of assistant staff, without being deprived of any of the privileges they already receive. I wonder: What other provisions should this arrangement include, to be happy, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Despite the communication toys you regularly recruit, saying that this measure is supposedly inadequate, I would stress that bodies such as the RESEA, but also the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Parents and Princess of Persons with Disabilities, have explicitly stated that they agree on the content of the proposed regulation, without any disagreement or question as to the obvious usefulness of this new institution. Finally, the programme for semi-autonomous Living for young people aged 15 and over is provided for, but also for adults living in closed care structures. In view of their smooth integration into society, the state is now undertaking to transform these children into small apartments suitablely equipped. These are the main points of today's bill, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. I'll just say one last thing. As you can see, this is all about arrangements that give breath and solutions to families with disabilities, families with children and infants and children living permanently in institutions, allowing them to envision a better future. I believe that the political forces must be involved in such an ambitious effort. I think it is time for the Qualified Opposition finally to recognise the positive steps taken by this bill on such crucial social issues. Instead, he insists on a political reason that fails to change him, as only he knows how to speak. But "voodon in the wilderness"! I therefore call on you to vote in favour of today's draft law with the optimism that we are attempting an important step forward for the next day, for the future of our children and people with disabilities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. And now Mr Dimitrios Vartzopoulos follows from New Democracy and then Mr Tolkas from SYRIZA. Immediately after the speech, Mrs. Biziu and Mr. Papaliou will be taken. Here you go, Mr. Varzopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an innovative bill. Indeed, if I may, it is an introductory bill because it introduces reforms which can and will be a trigger for far-reaching and radical changes that will finally lead to the creation in our country of a European modern state of welfare. With regard to the protection and prevention of abuse of minors, it is absolutely right that the obstacles put forward and the recruitment of staff and the licensing of bodies to all those who have been involved at an early stage in crimes against sexual freedom and domestic violence, as is the establishment of this National Registration Centre for the respective incidents. Of course, it would mean at some point that the Ministry of Justice should set up a special psychiatric service, such as in many parts of the world, which will monitor the incidents, but also assess at regular intervals all those involved in such crimes, who, as they are known scientifically, are very often scholarships. With regard to disability attendance, it is really commendable that the legislator is approaching the complex issue through the pilot phase. This issue is complex in terms of both the professional qualifications of these escorts, but also in terms of the functional targeting of social objectives, which can only be an improvement in the domestic quality of life and the maintenance of the work capacity of members, but also the therapeutic objective of improving the day-to-day functionality, social interactivity and possibly even an elementary work relationship. It is important here that we give weight also to the question of co-existence with the other structures of support for people with disabilities and in the sense of complementarity, but also in the sense of substitution in whole or in part. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that, in order to properly assess the specific gravity of all these correct therapeutic tools, it is important to have an overall picture of needs, that is to say, that we have the wheelchair map in front of us. This, of course, requires a serious epidemiological study. Within the Committee on Psychological Health of the CSYP, we had started an effort of this kind 15 years ago which, unfortunately, did not take place as a result of the time that followed. Today, however, we have other tools in our hands. Today we have e-prescription, which makes things much easier. It would therefore be possible, Minister, to make this wheelchair map and indeed within the framework of the pilot phase. In fact, I believe he will be so cheap that Mr Skakakis too will be able to support him with the funds from the Recovery Fund. With our wheelchair map in our hands, we immediately have an image by area of quantitative needs per diagnostic category and we can immediately build with various providers the National Welfare System, knowing where to install which structures, such as special schools, day care centres, semi-autonomous living structures and closed support units. You know, however, that unfortunately all these neuro-developing and pediatric conditions will become unscrupulously psychiatric incidents. This means that these structures should have a direct connection with the national health system psychiatric services. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the time has finally come for the completion of thirty years - early in the 1990s - psychiatric reform has begun in our country by moving large psychiatric hospitals to specialist networks which have a single scientific and administrative capacity to monitor the development of these people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very useful to have this electronic tool for monitoring the management of the services of disabled people. It is, however, a very useful electronic tool. But, like all electronic tools, it has a certain range. What is needed is only the creation of a single social service with the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior in the municipalities of the country, which will certainly be supervised by the OPECA, and which will be able to approach all those who, for reasons of age, educational, economic, medical and cultural reasons, are moving under the radars in the social margin so that it maximises benefits and leads to a universality of the benefit of such useful tools as we are discussing today. Also, it is very important and there is no need to comment on the "Cypriot" programme for nursery schools. The issue is that even more important is the part concerning the annual diagnostic process, the annual screening, let's say so, of the children with regard to their neurodevelopment. There is, of course, the question here: what if there is a discrepancy? The integrated medical diagnosis and the initiation of a specific treatment, which, unfortunately in these cases, is always years old, presupposes a coherent primary care network, which is unfortunately not yet available for the country. Indeed, it requires specialities, such as that of the paediatric psychiatrist, which are missing at too many ends of provincial Greece. And that's why the lot falls to us to make it as soon as possible. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this is an innovative and very critical bill, a bill that takes brave steps starting from a great, of course, long and painful course, but which is absolutely necessary. So it is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We continue with Mr. Tolka and then with Mrs. Biziu and Mr. Papaliou. Here, Mr. Tolka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur and the SYRIZA speakers have analysed in detail the problem of today's bill, our proposals, our commitment to supporting child protection and disabled people, the government initiatives that we have taken on all of them and on even more critical issues, as well as the adoption, in 18 years, of the instrument. Starting with my speech, let me support the deterioration of Parliament's legislative role. And I'm explaining. The entire bill has vague strategic planning, refers to the implementation of most of the provisions in the next year, with a limited duration, with pilot applications that are still blurred, with a limited scope for application to social groups and beneficiaries and, above all, with an unknown unsafe duration of the programs after three to five years, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. So it looks more like a code of conduct, a White Paper that will need decisions and certainly new laws. They are declarations, of course, that on the one hand no one disagrees with the importance of all those mentioned in the title, but, in practice, with specific provisions of the bill, you are establishing the "Personal Assistant" for disabled people. We have made it clear that we are in favour of 'personal assistant'. However, it had to be visible who is concerned, how many are concerned, as it is clear that your proposal includes not everyone, but a limited minority of people who really need it. And you are told by the associations involved in the consultation themselves and you have not heard them. I am tabling in the minutes a memorandum from the Association MA, an agency of Veroia on autism, the proposals they have made and have not been heard. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angelos Tolkas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, we must now see all these drafts along with the Action Plan for the Recovery Fund. What is described in the actions of the Recovery Fund as action? "Institution of the Personnel..." - I read just - "...and a grant of an integrated pilot project to provide personal assistance to disabled persons, with the ultimate objective of supporting them in professional and social integration" and, at the same time, "The formulation of the professional profile of the Personnel may produce positive results in the recognition and guarantee of the declared work of the persons providing corresponding services to disabled persons". There is, therefore, a far-reaching description of the plan of actions of the Recovery Fund that gives us some suspicion. Is the aim, in the end, mainly to train professional staff and not so much to support beneficiaries of AME? For the procedure for taking up or adopting, despite what you describe, you do not speed up the same procedure only because you are exempted from the training programmes of those who adopt their husband's children. The process is a heavy but necessary process that we know well and those of us who, even as lawyers, have handled adoption cases. But what time do you choose to make this exception? At a time when reality is contrary to your proposal, at a time when there is an increase in cases of domestic violence, but there is also a tension in the case of abuse by wives, non-biological parents of children. In the case of child abuse, you are putting extra bureaucracy and administrative burdens, in addition to overlapping and inefficient structures. In your proposal, it will not be possible to respond substantially to the structures of the province, where the project will be hampered by the requirements of the law and the confusion of competences between welfare services, children's stations, local authorities and, ultimately, the very purpose of protecting children who should be simpler, more direct, easier and accessible where they are being made. For the "CYPSEL" programme, which you present as the new, innovative and effective programme, it is worth a few words. The program "BYSHOLI" was prepared and presented by the research organisation "DIANOSIS" in 2017. Its content was described precisely in April 2021 and just before in the Recovery Fund's action plans, and today you are bringing it as a law, without having considered any objections and remarks that have been made. I am not going to mention, of course, that we have come to read the 'Interreg' surveys, to see what bills you will bring. The problem is not simply that you are adopting the 'DIANEOS' programme in this regard. You could choose any other program, there are too many and other respective private initiatives and companies. The problem is that you impose on the Greek Parliament a programme which has not taken into account the previous NRP, the proposals for bodies and parties, the debate on all these days. The problem is that you are voting on your own today on the content of a programme which you have not presented either in this House or in our debate or in the bill. It is a problem of democracy and parliamentary operation. It is the imposition of so-called excellent ideas towards the real needs of the Greek family and society. Madam Minister, there are other points of view, other proposals that you could hear through a sound legislative procedure. Design a system for preschool age that will support more children and their families throughout the country. Ensure fair access and quality of services for infants, toddlers, people with disabilities, coordinating policies, administration and social forces to serve targeted disadvantaged geographical areas and groups of pupils who do not enjoy care services due to origin, income and nationality. Priority is given to providing a defined framework of work, fair wages and a good working environment for workers in childcare institutions. Make sure that all the programs take into account the needs of the Greek family of the crisis and do not be afraid to share the power of care with the families. Priority is to support children from low-income families, with integrated services, satisfying families' needs beyond the classroom, such as satisfying nutritional needs, supporting the provision of medical or dental care and family financial support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The pandemic has led many outside parents and their families face multiple challenges, from food insecurity to lost socialization opportunities. Recovery will require greater care to meet the needs of children. It will require that new challenges be covered much greater than those you currently bring pilots, with many sects and more doubts. It will require progressive and radical income support policies and not soft interventions. So listen to us and correctly direct the bill, but also the Recovery Fund, for the support of the Greek family and not for the profits of the rich. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u227	Thank you for the time too. Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the care, protection, family condolences and security are an unnecessarily right for every child. But do all children have the right care? Unfortunately, there are children who at tender age lack their family, lack emotional, mental and social support. Institutional care, i.e. the care of the state and the placement of children who for whatever reason lack their family environment in structures, are not without danger. The phenomenon of victimization cannot be avoided, even when the state provides them with the most excellent structures. The damage caused to children, directly or in the long term, by separation from the family environment and permanent living in an institution is scientifically documented and undeniable. The intrinsic weaknesses of state structures have a strong impact on the well-being and development of the child. Forced coexistence, daily routines that are not scheduled for each child's individual needs, therefore these children experience neglecting feelings, as well as feelings of psychological and emotional insufficiency. It is therefore necessary to develop policies and services to promote alternative forms of child protection. That is why it is important to support and strengthen alternative care, care based on the model of the normal family. Such an institution is assumption. It is an internationally recognised institution that contributes substantially to the implementation of constitutional protection of childhood. It is an institution that acts as a means of preventing institutionalism, as it prevents children from entering or minimising their stay in institutions. In the summer that passed, the Ministry introduced a real reform in this area, the institution of assumption. Today it continues to improve interventions in the assumption system, speeding up the admission procedures to a foster family, rationalising the assumption supervision and placing the action of the competent services in the same regional unit as the contractors. To date, age conditions were common for candidates and foster parents. This is now changing and extending age limits for contractors to align them with European standards. Diversity and flexibility of assumption is the possible point of the institution, because it can meet a variety of children's needs and make use of various possibilities for fostering parents and we need to use the whole range of application. Each child has different needs and each contractor has different abilities. Hug, scar and care have no age limits and it is not beneficial to exclude those who want and can offer love and care to children who need it. Thus, only social services can judge the ability of each candidate on a case-by-case basis. In the direction of destabilising children living in social structures, the programme of semi-autonomous living in apartments for people over 15 years of age is part of the programme. Adolescents will stay with their caregivers and receive psychosocial support and professional guidance to prepare for the passage to adulthood, to equip themselves with the skills required by an adult’s autonomous, independent life. An important critical regulation of the bill, which will have a substantial impact on the quality of our citizens' lives, is the institution of the staff of the disabled. Personalized daily assistant services enable disabled people to do their personal choices. Greece is one of the first European countries to adopt the staff assistant, satisfying a consistent demand for the disabled movement. Beneficiaries are not all disabled persons in all disability categories without losing any benefit. It is a self-evident obligation for the state to ensure the full integration and participation of disabled people in the community, so that we do not have any phenomena of exclusion and isolation. The fact is that people with disabilities each face specific functional constraints, but ultimately their exclusion from many or few social actions is due to the inability of society and the state to understand and serve their needs. A very important axis of the bill is the upgrading of pre-school education. The program "CYPSHI" is an intersection in the data of infants, nursery and children's stations in our country. Preschool education is no longer limited to child care, but aims to develop the individual's personality and skills, and for the first time private and public stations are balanced and provide services of equal quality without discrimination. This draft law by the Ministry of Labour we are discussing today is a legislation with a clear social sign, which aims to strengthen the protection of children and people with disabilities. For the first time, a clear legislative framework is created so that all children are raised in a safe environment without risk to their physical and mental health. A programme of pre-school education is being established, designed to respond to the personal needs and specificities of every child without social, economic and other exclusions. It introduces measures to decouple children living in closed structures away from a family and deactines the right of disabled people to independent living. In the New Democracy, we support projects that are vulnerable to social groups, with initiatives that encourage social cohesion and equal opportunities, while effectively abolishing exclusion and isolation, because this is the only way to achieve the objective of social cohesion and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u229	Thank you. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor. Next is Mr Thrafaniotis, Mr Bartzokas, Mrs Christidou and Mr Maravegias, and then the speakers through Webex. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, another bill with a nice, impressive title, but also a false copy. ‘Prevention and treatment of incidents of child abuse and neglect’ is the title. This bill deals with welfare policy issues relating to people with disabilities, children and the elderly. But this is done in a general and vague way, so that the proposed arrangements will require joint ministerial decisions and to clarify and complement the gaps in their contents and their implementation. "My old sieve art" for the New Democracy Government of this kind of legislation. The resources provided for the implementation of the provisions of this Legislation are limited and come from the Recovery Fund within three years. Prevention for those who assume responsibility for the supervision of child protection bodies shall be limited to extending the control of the criminal record and the anticipated offences other than those of workers under contracts of indefinite or fixed working time and those of block and contract workers. This regulation is poor and ultimately ineffective in terms of prevention. The white criminal record is not in itself an effective tool to prevent infringements. We are proposing that the structured interview with a group of experts capable of distinguishing possible differences in the behaviour of the candidate worker. Problematic is the regulation on the definition of a person per structure as a child protection officer not only because it does not solve the problem, but also creates conditions and relationships between transaction and corruption in their structures and in their immediate environment. Accidents of abuse must be entrusted to an external team of scientists and specialists in identifying abuse, while scientists must be paid exclusively for their work and be responsible for the number of structures with which they will be in frequent contact to build intimacy and trust with the beneficiaries. Compliance with the record of reports of abuse must be essential and not merely limited to the export of statistical data, and the penalties imposed must not be pretextary but must be a deterrent to child abuse. The other part of the bill relates to the new pre-school education framework, the "BYSHEL" programme. The bill provides for the implementation of an incomplete relevant programme drawn up by a known private company with known influence, since general objectives are described in it, without specialising them. The structured new framework does not reflect, does not map Greek reality into structures, children, workers or existing teaching programmes. The proposal is scientifically perforated because the development stage of each child is unique and does not necessarily coincide with that of its peers. That is why we need a framework of principles and flexibility, and not a horizontally binding educational timetable, which can indeed be harmful, let alone it does not recognize the country's great geographical specialities - urban, rural, mountainous and mountainous - but also social and cultural peculiarities. Early diagnosis and early access are necessary, but the digital fresco of the development stages of a child up to four years old, which is provided for by the new framework, as this age is a stage of rapid change. A digital folder can follow the child and then adult negatively into his social and professional life. The institution of the "Personal Assistant", which concerns our fellow citizens with disabilities, is positive. But this is not about establishing a new institution, but about a pilot project which will only cover two thousand disabled fellow citizens for two years. A permanent institution "Personal Assistant" needs resources that the Government of New Democracy seems not intended to make available. I would therefore say, in some measure, that it is a burden on our disabled fellow citizens. However, in its positive draft, it is credited that the invalidity allowance will not be offset by the money to be granted for the ‘Personal Assistant’ as is the case with the invalidity allowance for disabled children. That's all about the bill. I now come to what the Minister for Labour said in his speech in relation to the amendment that we, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, rejected by the Minister, rejected. In his speech, the Minister for Labour confessed and accepted the blackmailing policy of companies leaving Greece in this respect when they do not agree with the policies pursued. When governments give in to extortion and conduct different policies, as you have suggested for your Government, is that good European practice? In other words, the Government admits that it grants legislative initiative and power to blackmail companies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more comment, because the Minister referred to the destruction of the country which is being blamed on you. Really, the bankruptcy of the country, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what was it? As far as the amendment is concerned, I would like to make two references to show that your refusal, the non-acceptance of the amendment, is already judged and will be judged by the Greek people. The classification of workers on digital platforms as self-employed under independent services contracts which deprives them of access to, subject to labour law and labour rights is one of the wider deregulation operation of labour law, followed by neoliberal policy over recent years. This has also happened with the ready - to - food distributors who have grown up because of the change in lifestyle and pandemic. In application of the EC Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has no jurisdiction to hear and determine whether a Member State has failed to fulfil its obligations under the EC Treaty. 4801/2021, by Mitsotakis - Hatzidakis, attempted by the company 'e-FOD', society and workers gave a strong answer. People's outcry, the solidarity and solidarity of society and the mobilisation of distribution workers, the wonderful'red vests', forced the company to fold and retreat after it entered into contracts with distributors for an indefinite period. I would like to end by once again stressing the content of the amendment you reject and for which you will be judged. The amendment provides for the institutional safeguarding of the position of employees as employees and not as free professionals, namely that they are recognised and protected by the law, such as employees, because they are employed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u231	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u232	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u233	Please, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u234	The proposed amendment provides that distributors must be employed exclusively on conditional employment contracts and that, moreover, they must be subject to heavy and unhealthy occupations. This is what you reject, gentlemen of the New Democracy, subjecting to extortion of the employer's side and especially those on digital platforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Thraniotis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs "Preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect, a "CYPEL" programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, nursery and childcare stations, provisions to promote assumption and adoption, "Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons" and other provisions, a description that predestinates for favourable and positive thoughts. But is that so? The first challenge came at the hearing of the parties, but also from the opposition parties. A right move is to withdraw it to make a substantial dialogue with all the stakeholders, scientists, local government that is absent, to redefined the framework of the single pre-school education and education in the Greek area, always based on the interests of the child and, above all, with specific timetables and constant steps. Instead, what are you doing? You keep asking what SYRIZA did and why SYRIZA didn't do it. One might think, an alien perhaps, that the Greek state was suddenly created in 2015 and not with the Greek Revolution of 1821, the two hundred years that we are completing and honouring this year. Because you obviously want to remove from memory - not yours, but your citizens - the responsibility for the bankruptcy of the country, bankruptcy which brought about a 40% reduction in wages and pensions, the haircut of the insurance funds, the loss of national income by 25%, unemployment by 27% and the introduction of the underpaid wage for young people under the age of twenty-five years. On the contrary, in 2015 the SYRIZA government received a budget for the social state of 790 million and delivered it to 3,5 billion in 2019. Of the 3.5 billion ECU, 1.4 billion related to costs for the child. Let me remind you of the measures taken by our government in the field of welfare policy. We increased the minimum wage by 11%, you increased it this year by 2%, i.e. by a coup. We have abolished the underprivileged wage - another inspiration - in an attempt to raise the average national wage which, according to the last OECD figures in our country, is below the threshold of the risk of poverty. We have strengthened the social dividends that you are now abolishing. We increased jobs at the children's stations from seventy-nine thousand in 2015 to a hundred seventy thousand in 2019. We established the school meals that you were ironing with 71 million in a hundred eighty - thousand portions. We legislated on taking up and adopting, reducing the time a child needs to find a family. We created the electronic platform for the CRL and integrated the social benefits - about two hundred in the number - through the OPECA for more transparency. We have included in the budget the recruitment of four and a half thousand special-education teachers. Was it enough? Apparently, no. But in relation to what we have received and the economic conditions, too much. Do they need improvements? Obviously. That is why, as our rapporteur has said, we will support the positive provisions. But the majority Members describe a virtual reality, which is well-founded that it will not be implemented. Minister, you referred to your location on visits to welfare units and let me also make a reference to a letter from a disabled person. Here's what a crippled quadruple says in a letter to the members of the Committee on Social Affairs: "I am very happy that after almost forty years four-popular, heavy disabled, I am happy to hear in my country about the institution of "personal assistant", an institution whose importance can be compared only with life itself, for simply the disabled who need help cannot live without him. I do not hide from you that until yesterday, after the announcements of Ministers, bodies and others, there was a feeling that the heavy disabled would be happy to experience this important institution that would enable us to feel that we are living. Unfortunately, following the post of the "DIAGY", the committees of Parliament and the statements of the disabled organizations, there is a feeling that the hope has been lost, that it is referred to in the distant future, as planned until now. The reasons are as follows: The bill itself does not provide for the universal application of the "personnel assistant" to the heavy disabled. In 2023, in 2024, in 2025? When?’ We are therefore discussing measures to support people with disabilities today. Another incident, you will allow me to mention, Minister. The details of the person concerned are available to you. A sixty-three-year-old cancer patient, with 86% disability, certified by CEPD, lived with the pension of her mother. The sad one? Her mother died. The ironic? "Fortunately they put the funeral expenses on me, but then what?" Here, ladies and gentlemen - Mr Hatzidakis is not present - I would like to say that with the reforms he has made, the changes he has made to the EVA's shops, while in her pension the marks had been counted and she was ready to go for signature, with the changes of staff being changed and the opportunity has been lost to retire this woman, a disability pension. That is the concept of a social state. Under these conditions, therefore, the efforts of the New Democracy to overthrow the negative climate for its failures in dealing with fires, pandemic, failed formation, etc. legislation in the direction of benefits, gaps in content, gaps in the majority of citizens. Because you give it all to the few and the leftovers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u239	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u240	One clarification for a minute, because I have heard Mr Thraniotus refer to it. I hear from the Qualified Opposition to speak in particular about the programs "BYCHEL" and "Personal Assistant" as a white cheque, which, he says, we give with these two programs. What do you think? I have heard Mr Thraniotis too, hence I want to make the clarification at the moment. We give, he says, a white check, it's a empty shirt, nothing specializes. I would point out, therefore, that for the RELAY programme, for the school meal programme, for the programme of new structures in nursery schools, which you were calling the Brooklyn Care programme, in all of these four - importantly, I do not hide important programmes - all of which were authorized and all of which were put into your legislation were made up of an article. Four programs, one article. And to be clear, the demolition programme and the RELAY programme both ran through an article, an empowerment for these two programmes, the demolition of the whole country, with an article. So, please, when we have set up a full framework for both nursing and nursing, nine articles, also for the staff assistant, eight articles, please do not have this information in the national Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u242	No, that's not allowed. You can't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u243	It's okay, you give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u244	But I don't give you a minute, you can't talk. The Minister has the right for three minutes. There is a parliamentary representative. You two will speak in your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u245	I know that trick anyway. Can the Minister speak whenever he wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u246	Of course, he has the possibility for three minutes, just like you had when you were Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u247	I don't remember getting up every three or a little and saying something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u248	Mr Bartzokas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when about two and a half years ago my first parliamentary term began, I was happy and honoured to find myself in some structures, some collectives, which have to do with disabled people, with minors, with children who have various problems, and then more than ever I understood how much it really is worth, at least we who had the luck of representing the Greek people, to deal with this subject. That is why, before I continue, I would also like to congratulate the Minister for the great work, on the important subject, and Mr Stamatis, who is here, for the work you are doing. Having followed the bill very intensively, since the consultation stage, and in contact with the Ministry's political leadership, I am very pleased that it is now at its final stage. His beneficial arrangements will soon leave his print in society. We all feel great pride, because our prolongation, the New Democracy, not only continues the path opened by the founder of Constantine Karamanlis to give the country a new democracy, but also opens the way to give the country a new social policy, a social policy that is not content with the passive interventions of benefits, but is actively planning to target equal opportunities and opportunities for all. Because today's bill actually places Greek social policy on a new dimension, focusing on the regulation of children and their protection, the elderly and the disabled. The body of the project incorporates a coherent grid of provisions that transform the Ministry's vision into initiatives, initiatives on child protection and prevention of abuse, pre-school education, on assumption and adoption, to support disabled people and adolescents living in institutions. Each separate provision of the draft law seeks either to cover existing gaps in the legislation or to further shield or to introduce the social policy framework into its modern dimension. This bill redefined the notion of child abuse more widely. At the same time, new obligations are introduced for child protection bodies and the obligation of the white penal register for all workers in child protection structures is introduced for the first time. For the first time also, the National System for Recording and Monitoring of Cases of Child Abuse, which is the first pan-Hellenic digital mechanism of this kind, is in place. The message is one and strict: no abuse behaviour with victims can be tolerated. The bill also focuses on the overall upgrading of services provided to infants, infants and children's stations, through the implementation of the "CYPSHI". The working model of infants and nurseries changes radically, as innovations are introduced with regard to the timetable and the possibilities of early diagnosis of learning difficulties, disability or disturbances. The Ministry of Labour has already taken great steps towards decoupling children. With this bill, our goal is closer to its fulfilment, as the age limit is set for people who wish to become foster parents. It is an important forecast, fully compatible with the practice followed by advanced European states. As I do not have enough time to extend to very important provisions for the support of staff in the closed structures of the elderly and the disabled, as well as to the specific framework for preventing abuse in these structures, I would particularly like to focus on the establishment of the "personal assistant", which is for the first time guaranteed in Greece, and its importance not only for the disabled, but for the character of the social state, which our country finally acquires. It is the most important example of an active social policy, a policy aimed at achieving the self-help of every disabled person, through the assistant staff, at the expense of the state. The staff assistant will, in substance, make it possible to self-determination of disabled persons. It will help people with disabilities in how they choose to live. Because in the end, independent living, which is a fundamental human right, essentially describes the possibility to choose for your life, to decide freely and to be able to implement your wishes and needs in an equitable and equitable manner. It is an arrangement - and it is not an exaggeration to say that the 'personnel assistant' institution concerns each of us separately. A lot more concerns us collectively as a society. Support for disabled people, and in particular without impediments to their integration, is an indicator of the success of a modern social state with an anthropocentric character. A state which does not make exceptions to social progress, which does not exclude any part of social welfare and today the modern demand for autonomy and independent living of SMEs, is being done. In Imathia, I am pleased to be in close contact with collectives promoting the care and rights of people with disabilities, and I can assure you, Minister, that there is great satisfaction in its adoption. It is surely necessary to reconstitute the social state in Greece. For us in the New Democracy it is also a priority. After all, it proves this bill to be awkward. All Parliament's forces must stand by this effort, which is national rather than party. At previous meetings, some have demonstrated once again that they are unfortunately working as a caravan on their own path. But this is the path of isolation. Isolation from society and its problems. So I and all of us from New Democracy invite you to change and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u250	Thank you. I don't see Mrs. Christidou here. We're continuing with Mr. Maraveya. They are followed by Webex three colleagues. There will then be secondarys, although several rapporteurs have taken all their time. We'll take time to be able to get a dentist and close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to continue from where Mr Bartzokas left it, the previous fellow Member, left it, and to repeat it for the fourth time in the drafting of the bill for the fourth time. The area of child protection cannot be a field of party controversy. At least this position for the New Democracy applies entirely. And if we make this self-evident assumption, then it is easier to agree on the apparently positive measures that this bill brings, such as the creation for the first time of a clear legislative framework, so that all children grow in a safe environment, without risk to their physical and mental health. This protective framework for the prevention and treatment of abuse is extended to all social welfare providers, for disabled, elderly and long-term sufferers. Secondly, interventions aimed at independent living for disabled people and supporting their families. A key tool in this effort is the new entrant - "introduction" named by my colleague from Thessaloniki - the institution of the "personal assistant" disabled. In 2022, the first pilot project will be launched for persons with a certified disability of all kinds from sixteen to sixty-five years and various factors will be taken into account for their participation, with emphasis on income criteria, so that they will first have this assistant with the greatest needs. The pilot phase of the project will be financed with over EUR 42 million from the Recovery Fund, leading immediately to its universalisation. Third and last. For the first time, all stations, private and public, acquire a specific single educational program, with the aim of developing each child's skills separately. Compulsory regular monitoring of infants and infants by specially trained staff for early detection of any learning difficulties and their development problems. At the same time, support for new families, with the implementation of an additional 180m euros funding programme to create fifty thousand new jobs for infants and infants in private and public stations. Madam Minister, preventing and dealing with the phenomenon of child abuse is a social project. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is attempting to tackle the problem first of all by setting up an information system for recording such reports and introducing sanctions in the event of breaches of the obligations of the participating operators. Without a doubt significant administrative measures, as the addressees of such complaints are not in a position by themselves to relate them to previous reports and thus to find common denominators between different cases or to assess the reliability of the complaints. The National Reporting Recording and Monitoring System is therefore coming to play just this role, to act as an official coordination mechanism to which all reports of possible child abuse incidents will be notified by children's protection bodies. Here I would also like to point out the introduction of an absolutely necessary filter in the staffing of child protection bodies. Article 7 of the bill prohibits employment in child protection institutions against whom criminal proceedings have been instituted or have been sentenced for crimes against the sexual freedom or economic exploitation of sexual life, as well as crimes relating to the family, trafficking in human beings or narcotics. The above inspection of the criminal record extends to all candidates and already workers in child protection structures in order to ensure the integrity of all the guests. And that's because it's a self-evident state duty to establish a fitness check for those who take care of such a sensitive group, like children and adolescents. Mr President, I would also like to focus on the other side of social protection, which is decoupling, which is what Mrs Michaelidou has been doing since the beginning. I think it is a common place that closed child protection bodies are rightly part of the organized care of our state and our society for the most vulnerable minors. But this approach must certainly be accompanied by the complementary policy of decoupling, because all children are once adult and well-intentioned to seek self-degree living, and indeed because the state's response cannot be confined to an indefinite institutionalisation of time. The same applies to disabled people and their need to live independently and productively in society. This includes the two new programmes of the Ministry of Labour. The first concerns the semi-autonomous lives of adolescents over fifteen years of age and of adults who currently live in closed structures. In other words, they are hosts who are adults or will become adults within the protective structures. But like any teenager who comes out into society, these children must be properly integrated into adult life, having the opportunities to allow them a safe and successful transition to the next phase of their socialisation. The same applies to disabled people and the innovative institution of the "Personal Assistant" introduced by the bill. This is a measure which will make it easier not only for the disabled themselves, but also for their families, to respond better to the obligations of everyday life. And it is very important that disabled people participating in the pilot phase of the project, regardless of the type of disability, have access to all the services of the "Personal Assistant" without any other social provision or service they already receive. Here I would like to repeat that we are waiting for clear responses from the opposition to these measures. We want to hear different proposals, if they exist, and not extremism, as in the case of SYRIZA. We should finally see if the Left really wants state aid to disabled people and teenagers who live in structures outside of them. I say this because the "Personal Assistant to Persons with Disabilities" and the semi-autonomous living structures were not the only measures in the bill that accepted the negative criticism of the rapporteur especially of SYRIZA, Mrs Fotio. Fellow called up the new pre-school education programme brought by the Ministry of "digital french" of the baby's development phases from zero to four years old. So we have a Civic Opposition in the 21st century to call the "digital french" scientific monitoring of infants and infants for early diagnosis and early intervention in potential development problems. If this is not a classic conspiracy theory, then let us ask the Greek Solution to tell us a more modern version. But if we want to find real solutions to real social problems, they will have to be found in the policies of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u252	Please, Mr. Comrade, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u253	For this reason, we are voting in favour of the bill and call on those who sincerely want to support the social protection system to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u254	We are now continuing with the speakers through Webex. We have Mr. Consola, Mrs. Tyloridou and Mr. Ilhan Ahmet. Please, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u255	Good evening, Mr. President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if a bill that has a strong social sign does not create social turbulence but also intense parliamentary interest, what else could be the bill from what we are discussing today? I would like to express my satisfaction to the Minister, who has worked very systematically in recent years to bring in a bill of very important importance, which covers a huge gap in legislation. In fact, it looks forward to tomorrow, after solving problems and pathogens emanating from the needs of everyday life, but also from the pressure we have received from the past. So we must also place ourselves on the phenomena of violence that we have all seen in the Stavroupolis PASE on the basis of this bill, because if anything else we are not interested in it, and we do not discuss this, we understand that we are making a social report very intense that society and citizens need to develop and make public in order to alleviate these phenomena. Because Greek society is true that it is not in danger of such phenomena, it is not at risk from Nazi structures and it has the way and the institutions to defend and deal with them. However, the citizens have already set them aside all that we have seen and all that we have experienced in the past. The collapse of the Nazi structure in the last elections is a victory for Greek citizens. This is in response to both public speech and television windows, but above all to social groups, which, because of these phenomena, produce some ideologies from the past, which I think is not appropriate today. Of course, I do not need to remind you that the New Democracy Government has dismantled and revealed this criminal organization and the New Democracy Government has been a judgment of justice. It would be inappropriate and inferior to the circumstances to refer to the real events that refer to political tolerance to the Golden Dawn and which are certainly not linked to the New Democracy. We need to stay on the real dimension of the incident in Stavroupoli. Who's that? That school isn't a battlefield. Mr President, let me make a clear reference to this report, because those who try to turn the school environment into a battlefield will find themselves in the face of the law and, above all, against Greek society. Justice and the Greek police must do their job. That's the message. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, as I said, has a strong social sign and moves into four main pillars, on four lines. The first pillar is dealing with the phenomenon of child abuse. The second pillar is the creation of a framework and conditions of dehydration. The third pillar is to ensure better living conditions for disabled people. Fourthly, it looks forward to upgrading pre-school education with the "CYPHELI". I heard the voices from a portion of the colleagues from the Opposition for this programme. I will go beyond that and allow me to refer to this last axis, noting that the 'Cyssophile' programme is an important innovation in pre-school education. It forms a single pre-school education system for nursery and childcare stations not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector. The programme is coordinated and implemented by the National Board of Pre-school Education and Education, which is set up for the first time for the first time. To date there has been no single educational program and any kind of kindergarten or kindergarten followed its own program. For the first time, therefore, a single pedagogical programme is being set up, which aims to develop on this first level the abilities of each child, inclusive, which is particularly important. And if we draw information from learning theories, for example, let me refer to censure learning, we understand how this theory highlights this age, early pre-school age, which is very important for the development of the child. Because the law emphasises, on the basis of this reference, since there will be a detailed timetable for children of each solar group at the children's stations and also at nurseries. Required regular monitoring by qualified pre-school staff is established in order to identify in time problems related to special learning difficulties. The more timely each problem is diagnosed, the better and more effective it can be to deal with this problem. Detecting and diagnosing mental or learning difficulties at this early stage is an important innovation missing from the system of pre-school education and education. The positive arrangements of the bill include provisions on the prevention and treatment of child abuse. I am standing here, ladies and gentlemen, in particular in the field of prevention, to point out that the provisions laying down the conditions are very important for someone to be employed in a structure linked to children, whether they have a contract of employment or are voluntarily employed. It is clearly stated that those who have been sentenced or to those who have been prosecuted for offences such as domestic violence or trafficking in human beings or trafficking in drugs and sexual freedom cannot be employed in these structures. Are you going to tell me, until now, were there such workers who worked in these charges? In any case, not to mention the past, with a view to the future, quite rightly the Minister, her colleagues at the Ministry and the government bring this very important parameter. It is also clear that every reference to child abuse will be referred to justice, and every structure will be created to deal with and record the incidents of abuse, the responsibility of which will be held by the person responsible for minors. Finally, I consider it particularly important that the establishment of the Staff Assistant for Disabled Persons, which will contribute to their autonomous lives, to the improvement of their conditions of life, which, especially in our days, shows the sensitivity of the government, but the priorities that the Greek society itself wants also emerges. Allow me, Minister, for this report, to say that it is indeed a great innovation, which will be piloted for two thousand children... (doesn't sound, because of a bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u256	We shall proceed to the next speaker, which is Mrs Tyrigoridou. Can you hear us, Mrs. Tyloridou? There's no connection. Let's start now with the special speakers and we'll see how the process goes with the internet. Mrs Athanasios has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u257	In Amendment 1090 you have brought to Article 14, you have done nothing but photograph a specific media owner for past debts of four months. The contributions shall be paid to the EDPS. But what is this favorable photographic arrangement for? Who did you do it for, anyway? What interests do you serve? As we have pointed out since the first meeting, this draft law concerns us. The concerns of the Greek Solution do not focus on the government's intentions, because we believe that there is a sincere desire on your part to provide solutions. However, despite the sincere intentions, despite the very humanitarian title of the bill, the names of its pillars and any positive provisions that this contains in connection with the fight against child abuse, the support of disabled people, it is in fact a bill that contains ambiguities and is incomplete in terms of its design aspects, which appears, among other things, in the context of the pilot implementation of the "Personal Adviser" when it excludes over sixty-five, in the implementation of the "Greek Agendas" and much more. The draft law also intensifies social inequality and unequal treatment even among the individuals in the same group. It distinguishes, for example, mentally ill people from other MEDIs. It promotes, in relation to the assumption - adoption, the assumption to couples who have signed a cohabitation agreement, thus making it easier especially for couples of the same sex and opening the way for adoption by parents of the same sex, which it finds against us as Greek Solution. In conclusion, with your choices, Minister and gentlemen of the Government, you only allow us to vote'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u259	I'll do everything I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u260	They tell me, Mr. Delis, that you've spoken twenty-one minutes. So, basically, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u261	Don't be so strict at this hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u262	That is what we were talking about today at the Conference of Presidents. They didn't have time to spend two hours and we changed what we were talking about again. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u263	It comes out - I think - a conclusion from the debate, which was good all these days. In our view, the undersubmission and under-financing of those social services relating to the protection of children, pre-school education, people with disabilities are burdened. Subscribing and subscribing are two keywords for the state of social protection in our country. This is why social needs, such as pre-school education, the "personal assistant" for the disabled are of a limited nature. Isn't that right? The character is limited. They have a pilot run, and not all children cover pre-school education, despite what is said and, of course, not all disabled people more, and eventually they end up being loaded. This subsidization, in our view, and sub-financing are the main causes of both small growth and assumption and adoption. Now, with regard to the amendments, look, Mr President, I do not know what you are talking about at the Conference of Presidents, but I think that this is not the case at present. It's been a long time. Amendments are being made as packages of heterogeneous articles and many times completely unrelated to each other. This, I think, creates a problem for all of us, particularly in Anti-Policy - and I am talking about us at the moment - about how we will be placed. That is not the way to vote, because at the same time there can be a provision with which one can agree another with which to disagree. How will it be placed? For example, in order to become more specific and, at the same time, to be able to find myself in time, we would vote - alas - for HISPIA to be discharged to Amendment 1078. Of course we would vote for it. But we cannot vote on this amendment at the same time in Article 2 for clawback. We would also not object and vote for Article 12 of Amendment No 1088. However, the main content of Amendment No 1088 is the 'Neighbourhood Dadas' action, which we disagree with. Furthermore, the third amendment, 1090, concerning the OAED, if voted separately, would vote for the provision, for example, which reduces the time limits for granting unemployment benefit. All right, we have a basic position that we say all the unemployed - and I think it is a perfectly reasonable position - to get unemployment benefit. You don't. No government did. To reduce a little the time conditions for the grant of the allowance. Yeah, lower it down. We'd vote for it. However, we cannot vote for a provision in which - look at it - the OAED, which is the person responsible, financed by the workers, employs workers as consultants in terms of part-time employment and fixed-term contracts to find their respective employment relationships for other workers. We cannot vote for this. I would just like a minute now, Mr President, to place myself on the Neighbourhood Dadades programme. I'll be very brief. I won't spend much time. I think that if anyone could say so briefly, he would say that this action is the refusal of the 'BYCHEL' programme. It's the exact opposite. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the one hand, the "BYSHEL" programme attempts - regardless of whether it manages it or not - a unification of the educational programme for children's stations. Welcome. Listen to it. Welcome. We're telling you. On the other hand, there is the 'Neighbourhood dadads' programme to implement a fully personalised teaching programme. Wouldn't that be in every house, be it the child's or the caregiver's, the nanny's? Also, there is a third category of children, who will not be at the children’s stations, who will neither have a nanny at their home or at someone else’s home to go, and so they will be at home with their grandmothers, with their grandparents. In any case, there is a question. And that's why we told you, Minister. It is finally revealed that your motive, your central idea, is to harmonise professional life with family life. The woman's right to work, of course, is not the child's right to education and to socialisation, which is the key element and the main concern at that age. Don't be foolish, no socialization can be done with any Nanny in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u264	You need to finish it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u265	Yes, Mr. President. And in any case, Mrs Syrengla's argument that this programme is being implemented throughout Europe, what does it mean? Does that give him credit and guarantees of progress? Is a philosophical policy implemented in the rest of the European Union? The same things happen there too, the same things come here. In this sense, we cannot vote for it. In any case, it is still pending and still unsatisfactory - and it is an issue that must concern the Greek people and especially the new couples - the request for pre-school treatment that concerns all - but all - the children of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u266	Thank you. I think our connection to Mrs. Tyloridou has been restored. Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill deals with very important issues, but not with the importance that is required and without weighing choices to tackle a tangible social reality that creates social inequality, because it is part of a strategic choice on the part of the government, where even social policy is integrated into the communication tools of this government, which, anyway, the most official lips of the Prime Minister himself believes in inequality as a natural phenomenon, which for the New Democracy, is ideologically acceptable to continue to exist. It is from this belief that the government's decisive effort comes from a number of legislative initiatives to unleash the social state, deregulation in the labour market, deregulation by the deregulation of eight-hour work, a vertical increase in the ceiling for statutory redundant or cheap overtime, exhausting working hours, and facilitating and liberating redundancies by abolishing the legitimate reason for redundancies established by the SYRIZA Government, maintaining the minimum wage at very low levels to be - supposedly - the country's competitiveness is greater. You're insisting on memorials and out of memorials. All of this is about social policy, as working conditions allow or prevent social problems faced by many people in their daily lives. Labour law must be the guardian of strengthening the social state, which is in turn the pillar of social cohesion. Your anti-government policy shows the orientation of today's legislative step on how you understand the issues of protecting children, the disabled and pre-school education. The same is true of course your anti-education policy. Suffice it to say that one of the first things you did at the Ministry of Education was to abolish the School of Care and Early Age Department established by the government of SYRIZA at the University of Western Macedonia based in Kastoria, aiming to create additional customers for private colleges. The current euphemism bill is entitled “...to prevent and deal with incidents of child abuse and neglect.” Even the behaviour of malicious behaviour is entrusted to a worker in the structure and not to an external group made up of a psychologist, a social worker or a lawyer, which would ensure impartiality. The "CYPSHI" programme is also euphemistically characterisation, as the hive is a term referring to a systematic organisation. The bill exhaustes this project with a general, abstract and incomprehensible reference, without a specific and defined framework and also without a vision. It is defined in this bill that nurseries become children's warehouses, without any substantial educational program, decommissioning both skilled staff and employees as a whole. This deportation becomes even clearer with what you bring as an institution, the 'Neighbourhood dads'. You tell the Greek family, the unemployed mothers, who in any case had them excluded from the nursery stations by 2015, to trust their child's smile at the neighbor, without education, without ensuring proper education and proper socialization, redeeming specialists, municipal authorities, public and private nurseries. I'm afraid you're only interested in looking and not about being. A characteristic example is the institution of the "personal assistant" disabled, which was a great opportunity to really and universally help the country's disabled. Two thousand are benefiting from one million disabled in three years. The rest of you are left to the political group of your choices. I think your bill has too many 'grey zones'. The roofs of semi-autonomous living: we are obviously in favour of decoupling. Juveniles, however, of the institutions must be protected, must have the possibility of completing their education, continue their psychosocial support unreservedly so that they can be ready and equipped with all their supplies in their adult lives. However, these are obviously fine letters for the New Democracy Government, as, for example, you have attempted even to qualify for the work of the 16-year-olds from structures at hotels. You stopped it at the last minute after the general outcry. Do you want to turn us into a working middle ages, the rulers of feudals and the people struggling with their sweat to conquer his rightfulness? Ladies and gentlemen, our people and our youth are experiencing a reality that is not pink. The children you are legislating for today will be the protagonists in the economic, social and political life of the country. Despite the difficulties and obstacles that your policy puts on the way, these children will fight for dignity, hope and life, and these are the children who will fight, with a negative experience, against the alienation of conservative policies, and will decide to keep their lives in their hands without compromises, contributing to a society of solidarity, equality and mutual respect, which is far from your policies, and which will do so with pride, not to cure the wounds you are creating them today, but to the conscience of respect for all human beings and to that we will be with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u268	We continue with Mr Ilhan Ahmet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a reminder, because today it often flees, whether intentionally or at times not, that it is an achievement of social democracy, the welfare state and the social state. It is an achievement of the progressive fact that the perception that in a modern state, only the most favoured can be prosperous by condemning the least favoured in the lower layers of poverty. I am reminding you, because the bill under discussion is trying to tackle central issues of the welfare state, involving a large majority of citizens, thus affecting the social cohesion and the proper functioning of the whole society. However, I fear that you are dealing with all these issues handy and fragmented. What do I mean? For example, we agree in principle with the creation of the mechanism for preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect as described in Part One. We agree. But if you really want to ensure the effectiveness of this structure, it is necessary to ensure the appropriate human resources and infrastructure. Here we must also see the great picture, which is clearly linked to global policies to protect the family and therefore to address the demographic problem, which is a national topic and requires long-term policies that have secured cross-party consensus. Furthermore, for us it is important to extend measures to protect minors and to combat abuse incidents, both in Roma camps and in the closed structures of migrants, from whom they come to the light of publicity horrific stories of child abuse. I now go to Part II, which deals with upgrading the quality of the services provided to infants, infants and children's stations through the "CYPSHI". We all know that an indirect way of not implementing legislation is by having secondary legislation. Do you really want to implement the "BACK" programme? And, if so, when? What's the timeline? Because, if you wish, it is not justified to adopt the five joint ministerial decisions needed to implement the programme. And here we are talking about five NSAs that do not just define the details of the programme, but the substance. This is no way to legislate. We consider the provisions of Part III to be positive. They concern the widening of age limits in relation to assumption and adoption. Let's go to Part Four. Obviously we also agree here with the establishment of the 'Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons'. However, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State tells us that for the years 2022-2024 the expenditure for the service of the "Personal Assistant" is estimated by the Ministry at around EUR 42 million and has been included for funding the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Do you know how this translates? People who can join this service will only be two thousand when the service needs about one million fellow citizens. The universal application of this service, as you claim in Article 38, cannot therefore be exercised. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak about an unreasonable injustice in the area of parallel school support for the ICT73 sector of minority teachers. Parallel support as an institution has covered a real gap in the case of pupils with special educational needs and the support provided is of enormous importance for their proper integration into society. Minor schools by their nature are bilingual. The operation of parallel support for the current teaching year and in minority schools it was beneficial. However, support for the second part also needs for the minority programme, which is at least half the teaching hours. Unfortunately, under the present regime, students in minority schools lack training support in that part, the minority. This could be solved by adding a relevant paragraph to existing Law3699/2008, which provides for parallel support within the classroom. In particular in Chapter III, Article 16(1) defines the placement of teachers as follows: In minority schools due to the bilingual programme of pupils, a teacher is placed in an ICT73 under the applicable criteria of this law. The answer I received after asking the Minister for Education was unfortunately disappointing. You said, Minister, that the educational establishments of the IP60, IP70, IP02, IP03 and IP04 already meet the needs of parallel support, and therefore you said that their colleagues in the IP73 do not belong equally. Another injustice for minority teachers, who cannot remain unanswered. Ladies and gentlemen, I began today by saying that issues relating to the social state are the components of the progressive process. That is why we have reservations about the substance and effectiveness of the policies under discussion, because the secondary legislation that is introduced fears that it hides your real intentions. As a movement of change, as a progressive party, we obviously support everything that concerns strengthening the social state and continue to claim more for more needy. It's not a luxury, it's a matter of national survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u270	We will now continue with Mrs Maria Apatzides, who has all her dentistry. She's the only buyer who spoke 15 minutes in prototype and didn't use another time. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the bill under discussion, there are one fine words for institutions to be formed, but on the other hand there is a great deal of vagueness and reference to future CSRs, joint ministerial decisions, which will clarify their content. The combination of these two elements of the bill must suspect us, make us suspicious of the government, because, even late, it has finally taken an interest in the social state or, on the contrary, it has been using some grand declarations as an alibi or a party that will start from now on with the joint ministerial decisions of its State, which are the only reference axis, at the same time as ex-party experts and bodies of public dialogue are ignored. I would point out, for example, some of the examples of vagueness and lack of clarification in Articles 36 and 37 concerning the ‘Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons’. A general reference is made to social criteria that will be taken into account for the selection of applicants, and for the remuneration of workers in the programme it is simply stated that they will be made by the OPEKA, without any further clarification as to the level of pay for these people. On this issue many questions arise, which indicate that for an aid to people in need, the government is once again acting improperly and in communications. For example, the following questions are mentioned. What will be the pilot areas? On which criteria will this benefit be chosen to start? How will it be ensured? Will the quality of services for disabled people also be controlled by whom? What criteria for selecting the assistant? Who's gonna approve them? Who's going to choose them? How long will the contract last? How will it end? If, in the meantime, the invalidity certificate expires, until its review of what is envisaged? What is the monthly amount to be paid to the assistant? Do you have a picture of what will be the annual cost of this programme, or do you not have a budget, too? Will all the categories of disabled per illness be included in the programme? And, above all, is there a ready platform for the implementation of staff at the Innovative Grants and Social Solidarity Agency, the Electronic Governance of Social Security and the Community Centres to carry out this work? OPEKA is having a subsistence problem and Community centres' employees need training. The Government therefore legislates without a plan and without these issues have been closed before, with the MEDIs and the competent authorities waiting when a joint ministerial decision will be adopted with the necessary arrangements. It's a humiliation. In conclusion, I should like to point out the following in relation to MEDA. Respect for organised society towards SMEs must consist of a dual framework of protection, an institutional protection against any discrimination and, on the other hand, unrestrained and unrestrained smoothing of the life of SMEs, with benefits from state to health, social welfare, decent moral and material living. PART25 will not fall into the trap of segregating human rights into positive and negative benefits and protection against discrimination. Human rights are an indivisible set of benefits and protection against discrimination. That is why we are linking these issues to our proposal for a law, in which we aim to ensure genuinely decent living for people with disabilities, with an income of about EUR 1,000, not EUR 313, which, escalating to secure the needs of these people, the SMEs, will allow them a life of personal development, blossoming and their full integration into society. However, despite the suggestions made to you, the same spirit of guilt and vagueness governs your amendments. For example, the one for the so-called "neighbourhood dads" sounds very nice. But is it a political matter? What did you bring? A measure, that is, that will help families who can leave their children in safe hands at no cost. However, the measure begins pilot projects, and this is where the known ambiguities begin. Voucher will cover some of the costs, while no clear reference is made to what the benefits will be for beneficiaries. So the footsteps of the main bill are followed. Nice talk about the show, but zero content! With regard to the amendment on seasonal workers in tourism and focusing, they are now given the opportunity to receive 50 signals from them to receive an unemployment benefit. This is positive, but something needs to be done for taxi drivers working in tourist areas and who, the rest of the year, are completely outdated. So please ask the government to take seriously the category of those workers who are actually hanging on board. In conclusion, we will vote against the bill at first, as I said in my protology, because for the reasons we have explained in detail, we believe that its general spirit is a pity to those who are supposed to be helping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u272	Thank you. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u273	Good month, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Minister, I will be brief, as I make a comment, rather two comments. The first point to be made is that of the Minister-in-Office-Office-in-Office-Office - who has just said what he has said. He said the same in the general context of his comments, as he said during the discussion of the working draft law, in relation to opposition. It was a cardinal of what he said in relation to the Opposition. So what did he say then? Mr. Hatzidakis said that he is not talking to us, talking to the citizens and that opposition is the best donor in the New Democracy. What would Mr. Hatzidakis want? Mr. Hatzidakis, who is the Minister of Labour of thirty-three team redundancies in Kavala Fertilizers, what did he want from us? Mr. Hatzidakis, who at one night abolished what was in labour law, individual law and collective labour law? He completely dismantled it! He established the unpaid overtime, the ten-hour daily work. What else did Mr. Hatzidakis want us to tell him about the bill? Shouldn't we make any remarks? Shouldn't we tell him there are problems? We must not show him and point him to the questions we had and did not give anyone - but none! - An answer? I will say, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Hadjidakis should be careful of the many love the world has shown to him by the philosophical measures he takes, not to have the phenomena of Thessaloniki. Secondly, on food - tourism: we have asked, Madam Minister, for a number of issues from Mr Hatzidakis beyond the fifty marks that we really accept and are in the right direction. The Food - Tourism Workers' Federation had some remarks, we raised them. Unfortunately, the Minister refers them to the bells. In relation to the bill now, I will not say about the amendments, which I fully agree with the representative of the JRC. We're totally in agreement. We've raised it many times. Unfortunately, neither has the Bureau done anything and the government continues to take advantage of it and bring us such amendments and 'forcing' us - in introductory terms - on various articles which are irrelevant to each other to be voted on as an amendment. Hey, this can't go on! The proposed draft law now before us actually introduces positive predictions and important institutions into the legal order of the country, but unfortunately, with serious gaps in the legalisation and the delay in financing legislative intervention. There have been many questions, Minister. They were, however, counted little - not to say on the finger, on the two or three fingers of one hand - the answers, if they were. Secondly, the draft law introduces the creation of a mechanism for preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect, without, however, incorporating it into an overall family protection policy. And we didn't hear anything from the government about what position it takes in it, because it doesn't incorporate it. And is it not appropriate to include it in the wider context? Isn't it more housewife, better right, more modern? Third theme: The essential content of the new "BYSHEL" programme for pre-school education is not passed by parliament, but entered by means of a joint ministerial decision. I repeat, and whatever you say, it is a given, that, unfortunately, the House is not voting, voting on the formal draft, nothing else. The MCAs, which are provided, will have the answers to them before the House. Fourth theme: institutionalize the institution of the "Personal Assistance for Persons with Disabilities", but in the pilot run 2022-2024, and this institution will just cover two thousand people in total who are over one million. Universal application is not defined in the bill nor where resources will be made available to support the institution. Nor are the resources and the institutions sufficient fear - and we have said so - that there will be an empty shirt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Instead of home support for baby and child care in the models of the "Help at Home" programme, with a first role and coordination of local self-government, it is the "Dadas of Neighbourhood". The beneficiaries - who are the beneficiaries - are without project costing. And it is a subject that creates and raises a great deal of questions. It is therefore clear that the government - and we will mention it to Mr Hatzidakis - has lost all contact with the good legislature, because it brings to night a number of amendments and has no contact with the living reality and the problems. We, despite the bad legislation, and we have proposed amendments which we rejected or accepted to be incumbent on them, are incorporated into the bill, and in our view they are not incorporated. And, of course, our main proposal is the adoption of a social surplus clause in all the projects and all the axes of the Recovery Fund, so that we have a social state that can withstand and last. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u274	Thank you. Ms. Fotio and Mr. Lippi are now staying. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. For a week now, we have been trying to convince the Government with the State Secretary and especially the State Secretary, who is, of course, representing her, that you cannot legislate with a CSH, namely that new institutions, such as the 'Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons' and the 'BYSHILE' pre-school education programme must be legislated. They are not legislated here, but they are referred to pilot projects for which we know nothing. We have not received any answers, as the previous speakers have said. CSRs do not specify the details of the application of the law. There are laws in this case. This bill is not the law of Parliament, but the ministers. This is the case with both institutions, and that is why it is a legislative firearm of communication feasibility, which Parliament wants to issue a white cheque to you. You have your votes. Vote it! But you vote for it yourself. After a week you did not convince Parliament and that seems to be the case. And in the intervening, you throw a variety of wards and lies, Mrs. Undersecretary, unfortunately. You blamed us on the committee yesterday for doing the National Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism for Social Integration and Cohesion Policies without being evaluated at the moment, without receiving the project, without operating the information system. You also accused us of having codified welfare legislation, that the work has not been received and evaluated, etc. I'm tabling all this and I'm asking you to read it. It is all legislative work and all evaluation decisions. Read them to be informed, because it is very wrong to leave these false accusations. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, you are accusing us here of doing the same thing as you. So I'm telling you: Firstly, the 15 million in the municipalities for the establishment of ten thousand places in nurseries was law. Secondly, the standards for private stations, which you described as "two pages for runways" were of older law executive. Read it! Thirdly, school meals were legislated in 2017, when for the first time the country had money in the budget and made money by law from the budget, as well as from the European Fund. So it's unacceptable. There was no money in front of either the budget or the European funds. That's why this pilot program was from the National Bank's fund. However, it seems that we do not agree here at all. We told you that the pre-school curriculum "CYPHEL" is harmful because it introduces a single content and time schedule for all children from zero to four per age category. It's a perforated science, it's harmful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We told you he didn't recognize the country's peculiarities. You don't even know how many children are today in nursery stations. How many times have I asked you? You didn't answer anything. The program is without vision and philosophy, it is foreign to the Greek reality, it is not innovative, it is not new, it is anachronistic, it is harmful. Also, with regard to the "Personal Assistant for Disabled Persons", we said we were in favour of the institution. But, at the moment, we are getting infinite messages from our disabled colleagues, who say they cry, when they hear that the programme is about two thousand people and everyone by 2025. That's what you did to them. You have created hope for them, and today people are disappointed. Finally, I believe that, as the institution of the child abuse officer is being introduced, it is both inappropriate and harmful for both children and for all. We say, then, that we are voting against the bill at first, because coal is the treasure of the flag law. We fear that the recovery fund money will be broken down again, as you have done before. Mr President, I shall refer to the amendments for a while and I shall conclude. We are voting 'at present' on the amendment to the OAED by a general number of 1090 and a special 88. We are voting in favour of the amendment by the Ministry of Finance by a general number of 1078 and a special 79. We are voting against the amendment on 'Neighbourhood dadads', namely Amendment No 1088 and Amendment No 87, because we believe that this provision divides children and infants at two speeds. The 'Neighbourhood Dadades', which will cost the state cheaper, and those kindergarten stations, which will cost less money. It does not, in fact, undermine the 'BYCHEL' programme, which we do not think should be implemented, but it undermines its own kind of kindergartens and any pre-school education programme that applies to them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. Mr Lippes has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President, and good month. I'll be very brief. At the end of today's process, the debate and the vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I cannot fail to point out the opposition to admit the progressive and social nature of the current provisions, or even that the current bill adds, complements, without questioning or repealing existing provisions. I was expecting to hear that there's something good. What can anyone argue with? With the new more stringent prevention measures against child abuse, or by extending prevention measures to other prosperous adult structures, or by setting up a specific single pre-school education programme leading to a better level of education, particularly in public schools? Or can one disagree with the creation of fifty thousand new jobs in kindergartens so that all mothers can return to work? Or is it possible to disagree with the 'Neighbourhood dads', which, in addition, aim to enable mothers to work, so that we can finally get away from this 43% of women's employment, the second lowest in Europe? Can anyone disagree with the new institution of the 'Neighbourhood Danades' for children up to two and a half years, with the support of the state of a trained professional who will take care of them while their parents are working? I have not even heard a good word about the signal of diversity in private and public enterprises. Could anyone disagree with the support of the institution of assumption and adoption which is so successful, generally professed, in the last year? Could anyone disagree with the matching of parents and children, as does the ‘Smile of the Child’? Can one disagree with the introduction of the "personnel assistant" programme by which, for the first time in Greek, disabled people receive help from a person who is next to them and assists them with what they need? Twenty years were demanded by disabled people’s associations. Five years you haven't done anything and now you're only making negative criticisms. Does anyone disagree with the measures to decouple children and, in fact, adolescents? It is obsessed with the attitude of the Opposition to constantly denounce that the planned funding is either incomplete or incomplete or not from national resources, but never enough. Of course there must be criticism. That, after all, is the role of counterpopulation. However, the criticism of criticism is unsuccessful. These opposition tactics sound in the ears of citizens as a obsessed voice by people who are simply interested in the government’s failure and nothing else. But not only does the government fail, but it demonstrates every day that it is on the side of weak and fragile social groups, that it talks with them, hears them, voices them and goes ahead with innovative social actions. For the Prime Minister, the Government and the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the battle for social equality and the reduction of social injustice is unnegotiable. All of Parliament's political forces must support today's genuinely anthropcentric bill. We must promote general good for all citizens against any micro-party interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u278	Madam Minister, you have asked for the floor for two minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, I really regret the development of the House. Opposition condemns society. That convicts. It condemns society and deprives the disabled of the staff assistant who has been waiting for so many years. She runs from the family the early intervention of her child at the nursery station. It outweighs early detection, early intervention and thus deprives the child of the timely functionality. Opposition deprives our children of the opportunity to develop their skills, according to what they themselves can and not with their parents' income. It takes new jobs in nurseries with 180m euros funding. It takes the calm of parents to know that their child is employed by a man, a worker in the structure in which he is in the morning, who has not committed any offences against sexual dignity. You have exhausted all your creativity - which I must say is far greater than what I expected - in finding and creating provocations in sin and childish lies to be atonement. You don't want to legislate not to work on someone who's been convicted with paedophilia with your child. Blasphemy is to deny it. And it's too bad! It's too bad, too bad! But we don't divide, but we join. Change page and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u280	The debate is adjourned on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: “Preventing and dealing with incidents of child abuse and neglect, “Cypli” programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, nursery and childcare stations, provisions to promote the assumption and adoption, “Personal Adviser for Disabled Persons” and other provisions.” We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty-seven articles, three amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u281	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u282	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u283	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: “Prevention and treatment of incidents of child abuse and neglect, “Cypli” programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, infants and children’s stations, provisions to promote the assumption and adoption, “Personal Assistance for Disabled Persons” and other provisions” was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole principle, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u285	The House has given the mandate requested. The minutes of the sittings have been distributed: PMB's Friday 11 June 2021, PMG's Monday 14 June 2021, PMD's Tuesday 15 June 2021, PMT's Thursday 17 June 2021, PMZ's Friday 18 June 2021, PMH's Wednesday 23 June 2021, PMT's Thursday 24 June 2021, PMV's Friday 25 June 2021, PMV's Friday 28 June 2021's (in the afternoon) and PMZ's Wednesday 30 June 2021, and the House is asking whether it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u286	Therefore the minutes of the meetings: PMB's Friday 11 June 2021, PMC's Monday 14 June 2021, PMD's Tuesday 15 June 2021, PMT's Thursday 17 June 2021, PMZ's Friday 18 June 2021, PMH's Wednesday 23 June 2021, PMT's Thursday 24 June 2021, PMT's Friday 25 June 2021, PNV's on Monday 28 June 2021 (the afternoon) and PND's on Wednesday 30 June 2021 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-30-S1-commons.u287	With the consent of the House at 0.32' the meeting is closed for the day 1st October 2021 at 8.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) Parliamentary control, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Definition of 26.7.2021 amendment and replacement by 3.6.2019 individual Donation Convention for Project VI of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “Social Benefit Foundation of Stavros S. Niarchos” and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the health sector and its annexes and other urgent provisions to address the pandemic of the COVID -19 Koroniroy".
