ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to begin with some communications to this House: The Finance, Development and Investment Ministers, as well as the Deputy Finance and Foreign Ministers, submitted on 28-6-2021 draft laws: 1. ‘Under the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’, and 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Under the Agreement amending the Agreement on the Transfer and Mutualisation of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 30 June 2021. A. FURTHER QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The Question No 892/25-6-2021 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Signant subjugation of ELTA Magnesia and extensive problems in mail distribution". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 900/28-6-2021 by MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis, to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "State - viewer in the leakage and exploitation of personal data of its citizens and the imposition of manipulation - censorship by social media". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 6558/14-2021 of MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "With intentional blockages in this year's voucher for nurseries, creativity centres (CDEP) and Creative Employment Centres for Children with Disabilities (CDEP), the Government this year condemns hundreds of thousands of parents to uncertainty and dozens of private and public bodies in failure to participate in the programme." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of it from 24.3.2021 Amendment from 3.2.20 individual donation contract for Project I [Annex 5 to the Act]. 4564/2018] and its amendment from 13.5.2021 of 6.9.2018 donation contract between Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation and the Hellenic State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure and its annexes, arrangements for the treatment of Coronary Pandemic COVID -19 and other provisions. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 June 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, a single at the outset and on articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a circle that will include a speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the proportion of five speakers from New Democracy, three speakers from SYRIZA, one speaker from the Change Movement, one speaker from the JRC, one speaker from the Greek Solution and one speaker from Mera25. With a teleconference service or a physical presence, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the parliamentary groups, by letters. I think that there is no objection to this basic proposal. I would like to inform you that the ministerial amendments will be presented by the relevant ministers. And we shall start with the rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr Zesi Jekalaya. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting in plenary today an important bill from the Ministry of Health. I have to admit that at the previous meetings of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs there has been a substantial dialogue, without prejudice, with a good option for the most part by most of the Vice-Presidents. This also confirms in today's bill that for the New Democracy Government, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, health is a key priority and a pillar. However, I would like to respond to some of the objections, the objections that have been raised all day in committee meetings, that while the bill is important, it is great and that the government, on the occasion of ratification of the contract amendments by the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, brings up a lot of other things. Of course we have to do that. Because who can object, that since March last year Greece's most important problem is the problem of the health crisis? The government's first concern and priority is to try to protect the health of every citizen and safeguard his physical integrity. It has been said that diagnostic tests could be prescribed through the national prescriber in order not to pay citizens. I would like to say, therefore, that since the beginning of last March, clearly all methods of diagnostic approach either through rapid tests, rapid tests or molecular biology tests, PCR, all citizens had free and free access and no one needed to be prepared to pay. As many times as this was done, it was perhaps from the overriding anxiety or anxiety. I am absolutely convinced that throughout Greece when it was necessary for the citizen to take a test for any reason, it could be quickly, safely and free of charge. Yesterday morning, the Prime Minister announced the prepaid vaccination card for the young eighteen to twenty-five years. It was described as "cheques of absent corpses", "exemption of young people". If possible. It is confirmed that the problem is not over. Everyone needs to be vaccinated. Our young people are reasonable because of the age, especially during this summer's season, to think that they are not at all at risk from the coronary. But it's not like that. They may not be at risk of being seriously ill or intensified into an intensive treatment unit, but clearly if they stick, Mr President, they can transmit the disease to the vulnerable, to the uninvasive, whether they have not been able to reach or yet are negative, but we think it will slowly increase those who leave these miserable thoughts. This initiative is therefore very right. It gives an incentive, a reward to our young people, and it is made in other countries. Even today, at noon, the government will announce some of the incentives for vaccinated and non-recreational entertainment during the summer months. Of course it is essential that this be done. So I close my introductory position, because that is what I think is the main concern that must always be in existence, that the coronary is there, that the government exhausts its efforts in all ways, that finds the means, money, to safeguard the health of the citizens as much as possible. However, we are adapting to the requirements and needs created by each phase of the health crisis and aim to overcome it. This is how efforts are being made to implement structural interventions aimed at improving the services provided to citizens. We know very well what the benefactors have at times offered the place throughout the course, either prior to the slave or the newly liberated Greek state, since we celebrate the two hundred years since liberation this year. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation, also invoked by its timeless love for the fellowman, demonstrates the continuity of the tradition of the great benefactors, of benefactors and of offering to our nation. The practical reinforcement of public health is apparent from the implementation of actions that will strengthen the health sector and constitute a substantial investment in the future of our country. The implementation of donations under the Health Initiative contributes to the ongoing changes that have the potential to benefit society as a whole. The new health initiative includes major interventions in infrastructure throughout the territory, strengthening the aerospace facilities of the EMCDDA, supplying new medical equipment, as well as in educational activities. Also, the general organisation diagram is amended and replaced by a revised contract on the reform, design and construction of the new General Hospital of Komotini. The budgeted value of the project is increased. The project under construction is reinforced, including a complex of magnetic tomographs, a breast imaging section, a cardiovascular complex, a III camera band, two additional surgical rooms and provisions for the therapeutic exercise and rehabilitation. Further needs and shortcomings were identified in critical areas of the health system of Greece, such as the mental health of children and adolescents. The Foundation's assistance was thus agreed to meet these needs. The strengthening of children's and adolescent mental health services in the country through the funding of a scientific programme and similar structures to strengthen the mental health sector of children and adolescents in Greece is now possible. In particular, there is provision for the planning and implementation of a five-year scientific programme, including the training of mental health professionals to support the mental health sector of children and adolescents in Greece and the upgrading of the quality of the care provided, providing access to mental health services in children and adolescents even in the most remote areas of the country. It provides for the study of the reconstruction, renovation and maintenance of the necessary equipment of the existing building located in the area of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital for the accommodation needs of the upper program. Reconstruction and operation of the national reference centre for mental health shall be financed. In the second part - the bill has four parts and ninety-one articles - are arrangements for the central service of the Ministry of Education where provision is made for some necessary and important things, such as the two-year increase in the committee responsible for carrying out medically assisted reproduction, the establishment - which has also been discussed, I think it is unfortunate that it has been done, but the Government's arguments are convincing - health providers from public health institutions in application of provisions for private primary health care providers. A system for the provision of health services is to be set up. And on this, there were objections, but it seems clear not only from the reading of the bill, from the letter, but mainly from the spirit that there are safeguards of personal data with many dilemmas of narcotics in the movement of data. Distribution of positions of qualified nurses in the specialty of emergency and intensive nursing, which we so much need, but also in the specialty of mental health care, in the management of the mental health structures of the NSH by qualified personnel to effectively address the specific needs of the mental health sector with nurses serving in health structures who have appropriate education and specialty in mental health. Extension of work contracts of central health staff, regularise the procedure for the introduction into the electronic prescription system of medicinal products authorised by the Emergency Admission Agency with the provision of an opinion of the Evaluation and Compensation Committee. There are other important exceptional arrangements due to the coronary. There are so many amendments which have necessarily been tabled. Even today, various ministers will come to support various necessary measures to be taken. A lot has to do with the coronary pandemic. Until 30-9-2021, the contracts of the doctors of the EGE are extended because it is necessary to support the provision of independent services. For a further six months the EGE contracts with proof of service to meet the needs of the reception and identification centres, the well-known CSTs and the hosting centres of refugees and migrants. By 30-9-2021 the health coverage of uninsured and the possibility of checks to detect covid entities shall be extended. For one year, the contracts of the National Blood Center relating to the supply and equipment of reagents are extended. The term of office of the health management bodies, the possibility of staying until 31/12-2021 doctors who had to leave last year because they had completed their sixty-seventh year of age, it was clarified that this will be easy and immediate for pneumonology, pathology, anesthesiology and general medicine and at the request of doctors who wish to remain. The management of hospitals and, finally, the commander of the relevant DSO considers that the presence of the doctor is necessary and necessary. It is envisaged that high-capacity vaccination centres with administrative staff can be staffed and that the arrangements for carrying out work to create parts of nuclear medicine, imaging and radiotherapy, the installation of cancer cell diagnostics, etc. are introduced. The conclusion of contracts for the implementation of the act "Creation of nurses for home care services and the taking of samples of biological material by persons - possible cases" is the next to be put forward by the Government. The process of sending medicines to vulnerable groups - and this will run in the next few months - the possibility of recruiting subsidiary medical, nursing and auxiliaries, the possibility of engaging private doctors in public hospitals to meet emergencies from Coronovirus outbreaks, the possibility of converting what we have seen every day - beds to ICUs or MIDs, the possibility of binding private clinics for the needs of public health against covid. It is important that we make arrangements for the granting process. There were issues there too. Many wanted to be donors, and there were bureaucratic stumbling blocks, which did not quickly perform the strong will of those who wanted. The possibility of insecure and insecure patients with chronic end-stage renal insufficiency for private sector dialysis units that are associated with the EEAS is extended and the procedure for issuing monthly or repeated prescriptions of patients is extended. For the first time an arrangement is introduced to keep an electronic prescription file for drugs in pharmacies. It is a matter that has had to be solved for years and it is time for this government and that political leadership of the Ministry to resolve it. Arrangements are introduced aimed at simplifying the training and modification of hospital agencies as they restore existing problems. We often know how slow any changes in hospital regulations are. There will now be the possibility of flexible amendments, before we make more general changes at longer intervals. It restores existing injustices so that U.S. doctors holding organic or established personal positions in health centres in healthcare areas, if they want to regularly join the ESS hospitals and have the development like other doctors. The two-way obligation on professional organisations to inform the judicial authorities of any disciplinary misconduct of their members or vice versa is laid down to inform the professional organisations where there are cases where there are irregularities or misconduct of evidence of formal qualifications. There are many arrangements which preserve and regulate the extension of storage, cleaning and disinfection issues of many ministries. The criminal and political courts are being reopened, because the cases have been delayed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only be a little late, Mr President. I would like to say, in conclusion, that the government once again proves that it is next to the citizens, next to society. He's listening. It has often adopted opinions, which may not have been understood. No one cares more or less about the fellowman. I believe that the next time, again with unity and determination, we must move forward in order to safeguard the health of the Greek people and all the people of Greece. Until now, our homeland has given us tests and we have gone very well. To stress, by closing, the digital European certificate for vaccinated persons, who in fact not only guarantees our lives, ensures free, safe communication between us. For all these reasons I also call on the opposition parties to continue the creative dialogue and to help achieve the high objectives of today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u3	The rapporteur-general will be given the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in plenary today concludes the debate on the draft law on the ratification of the donation of the Social Benefit Foundation 'Stavros Niarchos'. At least that's what the title of the bill has been deposited says. But, as I pointed out in committee, but other colleagues in the opposition also pointed out, the title of the bill is disproportionate to its content, because it prejudges someone to listen to the donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, a truly impressive move to strengthen the public health system in a period of strict fiscal policy for the construction of new hospitals, the renovation and strengthening of others, the strengthening of the EAW and the supply of medical equipment and others, a total cost of more than EUR 450 million in a very difficult period for the ESS. Let me remind you that we were at a time when they were fired in one night and two and a half thousand doctors, literally weakening the National Health System. However, it contains a number of provisions and articles, many of which deliberately contain ambiguities, to conceal the government's real and anti-social intentions. It is characteristic that from the set of articles, which are ninety-five, only two refer to the ratification of the donation contract. The other articles either relate to provisions for the management of the pandemic, movements, personal extensions of contracts, exceptional procurement procedures and others or bring changes in the provision of services of the public health system. Under Article 3, and under the pretext of pandemic, aided reproduction is extended by two years. The problem is obviously not dealt with by increasing by one or two years the time of assisted reproduction, but overall by providing proper information about the benefits, risks and, above all, the conditions for children born not only by assisted reproduction but also by normal delivery, to grow up in an environment that will provide all the guarantees for physical and spiritual development. Among these measures are, Minister, and the plan that we had started as a government in cooperation with the Panhellenic Dental Federation for the introduction of universal and free provision of dental care for children of school age. Article 4 provides for the application of provisions to facilitate the setting up of primary health care providers. Although the Minister was provoked to name the utilities, what they represent and others, he scrupulously refused to answer. Efforts are obviously part of the framework for weakening the ESS so that it can be devalued and made attractive for the private sector. Article 5 establishes the establishment of an electronic health service record. The priority is to protect citizens' personal data, such as diseases, medicines and others, as well as workers in the public and private sectors. It is clear that such issues relating to the sensitive health sector require special attention in order to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of the patient's medical records. Our permanent position is transparent procedures and democratic electronic management in health, ensuring the confidentiality and security of the processing of personal data, with constant social control and accountability of those involved in these tasks. Article 60 regulates the organizational aspects of EEAS. In amending paragraph 9 of Article 28 of Law No 3918/2011, the Governing Council is entitled to delegate to natural or legal persons governed by public law and private law a series of responsibilities, such as study, recording, evaluation, evaluation and submission of proposals for the use of their assets, administrative and financial organisation of services, closure of balance sheets or accounts and accounting information, recording and processing of data in computer programs, control of health expenditure, drafting of plans and others, thereby conferring powers of the largest health service provider to private persons, although the Agency has, as emphasised, at the hearing of the well-trained staff, scientific and technical bodies to deal with these cases. Article 70 lays down a provision which is extremely unconstitutional and abstract for representatives of the boards of directors of the pharmaceutical associations of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association, as it restricts the right of association. The freedom of pharmacists is thus affected and discrimination against the co-operative status is created. The term of office of the TWG Management Boards shall be extended by Article 90. However, the TWGs of Crete express their concern and opposition to the anticipated legislation and the entry of individuals into TWG management. This will increase the cost of production and products will become less competitive. Finally, with an amendment tabled, the management of the external network of the EEAS is going through the private initiative. Social goods, such as water and health, cease to be social and are converted into merchandise. Auxiliary insurance. With the obvious idea of Mr Patlis not paying young people for the pensions of the elderly, but putting something aside from the excess of their wages, so that they can have a touchdown in the future. Here, indeed, science raises its hands high. Really, who are we talking about? For the four hundred and fifty thousand young people who left abroad during the memorial period, or for those for whom the underpaid wage was introduced as a racist inspiration, does the lesser than twenty-five years have equal rights for equal work? This also demonstrates the opposition of the New Democracy to accept the constitutional proposal to guarantee a constitutional equal pay for equal work. Or is it for those who stayed in the country and 34.2% do not find work today and are unemployed? How, then, will these young unemployed be able to put aside something from their wages, so that they can have a disembark in the future? The only problem you are interested in with this proposal by Mr Patellis is to give EUR 50 billion to individuals to gamble them in private insurance. The pandemic, despite the painful results, has raised problems and truths, has highlighted the universal supremacy of the National Health System against the deafening substance of the private sector. He showed, despite applause and fine words, your abhorrence to the National Health System. I shall refer to Lasithi, which is a typical example of the devaluation and indifference of strengthening health structures. Specialities can be covered, where for various reasons they are not covered where they are characterised as barren and disadvantaged areas. One of these is the lack of anesthetics. The Anaesthetic Society of Greece has tabled a proposal to give increased motivation to attract specialties such as anesthesiology. We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance have adopted this proposal and have tabled a question to the relevant Ministry, but have not been answered yet. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance supported the ESS in difficult times. Despite the relative recession and the relative vaccination, the pandemic has not finished. The coronary delta variant is present and threatens. Armouring the ERC shall be of immediate priority. We are working on and will shortly be putting forward a proposal to strengthen the first phase of the structures of the National Health System on islands, arid and inappropriate areas with an effective backbone of incentives for attracting qualified doctors. Strengthening the public health system is found in the syriza government's planning core - Progressive Alliance, including the experience of pandemic. Finally, you will allow me to comment on the EUR 150 pocket for young people who have been vaccinated or are about to be vaccinated that the Prime Minister has announced. When you're not able to convince with your policies because of ruthlessness and bankruptcies, you're resorting to the buy-out. Besides, Mr. Scully speaks of them when he says about the political system that brought us into destruction. A political system that often uses public finances to buy votes, while it was estimated that the world will change this system. That was, of course, what he said when he left the mantle before he returned as a Member of the European Parliament and now the Minister of the New Democracy. The same system seems to be using today also the New Democracy with the Petsa list, buying out the systemic media, but also with the EUR 150 bonus for young people to probably buy their vote in elections. But young people are not so receptive to the takeover. They are responsible for forms of solidarity with the Greek people but also for life itself. You will allow me to submit to the minutes the statement by Mr. Skylakakis, who had made it in 2011 at the radio station "SKAI". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is typical of the government's intention to deliver everything to the private sector, from workers to create cheap jobs - special economic zones with cheap labour - by granting the private social goods sector and by depreciating the social majority. This social majority, however, will give the answer to the next elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u5	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Poulas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard the Prime Minister of the country eat new allowances to be vaccinated. We must all realise that the prerogatives strategy in vaccinated areas of populism, which has been followed in the past and SYRIZA, is not enough to accelerate vaccinations. In the battle of the country's vaccination shield, there is not only enough privileges for vaccinated people, especially young people, because they show that we underestimate them. The Government must aim to identify the reasons why some citizens do not want to be vaccinated and do so, to increase awareness of the advantages of vaccination throughout the territory and to facilitate citizens' access to vaccination centres identified as such. Even door-to-door vaccinations should take place immediately if the government finally decides to activate home vaccination, even with a great delay. We should all be involved in the fight against vaccination without exceptions. In our home country, the pandemic could undoubtedly prove a unique opportunity to move on to a new National Health System reorganised, strengthened and dynamic. Unfortunately, however, despite the initial optimism, the government quickly served what it knows to do well, in communication management, in patches, in arrangements, in fragmentary movements without a plan and without a vision. Even the great weapon of donations that were generously offered for the country's health defense was included in the same logic. Although the Change Movement has proposed the creation of an imprecise mechanism for the acceptance and utilization of donations from the beginning to serve as a symposium for the country according to the needs of each health region under the supervision of the Parliament, the government did not accept it. As far as the donations initiated in time before the pandemic are concerned, neither are the prospects for them, as they do not form part of a comprehensive plan for the redeployment of the country's health map. No prior study of the health needs of each RAG has been carried out, no overall design has been made in respect of the required infrastructure, neither with regard to the required staff capacity nor with regard to its funding. In practice it is about bricks and horns that are very perverse. In other words, although donations are a valuable financial instrument which, together with state health expenditure, has the potential to transform the country's health, does not form part of a real plan for the reorganisation of the ERC. However, the needs of the system resulting from the ten-year sub-financing and sub-scribing leave no room for refusal to accept their donations and modifications and even add to the technical equipment in a modern hospital - I am referring to the first Convention - and resources and infrastructure for mental health related to the second Convention. However, the amendments to the donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation do not come on their own. They are accompanied by a multitude of provisions not always in the right direction. It is the majority of them that are supposedly innocent provisions on individual issues, but they are revealing your government's vision of public health. This is a magical picture that differs from your reality and your public assurances. In particular, the Government maintains that it has equipped the National Health System with a thousand five hundred ICM and MAT from the six hundred fifty-seven who operated before a pandemic. This figure, in fact, did not arise from the creation of new beds, but from the violent transformation of whole ESS clinicals into ITH covid at the expense of common illnesses and their conversion into monothematics for dealing with pandemic. With this draft law, an extension is granted for the disposal of IF beds by military hospitals and private clinics and an extension of the conversion of IF beds to public hospitals. However, by reintroducing public hospitals to their normal function and reopening their clinics, we will measure the real dynamics of the ERC in meth beds and see what will remain as a reserve for the post-covid era. So, will you answer how many ITH beds have finally been inherited by the pandemic in the system, how many people can rely on them to increase their dynamics? You are also proclaiming that you have strengthened the system with staff. This draft law is revealing the inaccuracy of your claim. Hospitals are supported by private doctors at a fee of EUR 2,000 per month, unnecessarily prolonged contracts, with movements by doctors from the TOMY, extensions of a contract of subsidiary doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, and extensions of fixed-term contracts for doctors recruited exceptionally for the needs of the pandemic. Vaccine centres are managed by medical staff from hospitals, health centres, the Armed Forces, from Security Body bodies. At the same time, extensions and recruitment of "by the window" are still under way with summary staff procedures at EGEY, at the central services of the Ministry of Health, at the IFET, while you still cannot satisfy even a request from hospital doctors and nurses. That's not a styling, it's a rough patch. Where are the public hospital organisations? When will they be completed? When are there going to be contracts for permanent recruitment of staff? What stage are the competitions that you have already announced? You said they'd be completed within a year. Is your commitment true? Minister, the reality is that the ESS is based on the same declining staff that solely took over the health management of the pandemic in return for a handful of applause. However, extensions of contracts do not mean recruitment, do not involve the blood of the system with young scientists who will bear the burden of the ERC for the next thirty years, not the staff of the ICM. To date you have given no timetable for the completion of the recruitment of permanent staff that you have announced and which in any case is a drop in the ocean. You haven't put in front of the new public hospital organizations. You have not calculated the staff to be appointed and at what length of time, in order to function as the ERC should be. We have absolutely no picture of your intentions in this area either. At the same time, we see a strong intention to control everything, such as the extension of the administrations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the possibility of appointment to the positions of the Governor and the Vice-President of individuals from various professional branches, even judges and academics who have nothing to do with the subject, perhaps only with their essential qualification as a friendly relationship with the government. After placing in the administrations of hospitals of exclusive virtues, without a fig sheet for party selection, you proceed to the absolute deletion of the Ministry. I would remind you that according to your promises, administrations of public hospitals would be assessed each year on the basis of quantitative and qualitative objectives and their obligations under their contracts. In a month's time we enter your third year of government and still no evaluation has been made. And here promises without reflection and great words. Can I talk about the deportation of the hospitals? When will the accidental selection of health infrastructure managers finally stop? Of all the messages we get from all the hospitals in the country, it turns out that the locations of the managers and chiefs are made by decisions of the hospital boards and by magic, only your party executives are placed. When will these people be assessed? It can't continue the rushphetti in the hospitals. In all of this, you are going to provide a sample of how you mean and how you manage health finances well. Prolong by way of derogation from the provisions in force without scrutiny of the Court of Auditors. You approve costs for storage, distribution, customs clearance, personal protection fares made by the IFET again by way of derogation from the applicable provisions. Aren't there any public warehouses? What procedure has the distribution been decided by individuals? What are we talking about, what are we talking about, that you have managed through the various bodies of the Ministry of Health and on the occasion of the pandemic? Is there a check and an evaluation? When's the dinner party going to end? I would remind you that in the period 2004-2009, expenditure was set at EUR 6.9 billion. You are saying today that you have increased public health expenditure by EUR 788 million in 2020 to deal with the coronary. How much of these funds are they actually expenditure that reinforce the health system and how much are wastes with direct awards to self-diagnostic tests, rapid tests and "by the window" and best friends? Finally, this draft law is committed to a benefit to the private sector. Prolong the availability of beds and spaces by the private sector with similar allowances for the needs of the pandemic. Prolong the examination of coronary samples by EGE to private providers. Prolong the compensation of private clinics and hospitals which have been forced to provide the needs of the pandemic. You put contractors in the feeding and storage of hospitals from the back door. Already trying to rinse the private sector by talking about supposedly successful public-private co-operation in the management of the pandemic, while the truth is that you deliberately left the ESS to take over exclusively COVID -19 incidents. Evidently you pave the ground for the next step, as feta - feta is applied to privatize the HSY with less vibration for your Government. In addition to these are fragmentary provisions, which are more similar to arrangements than with integrated regulations in the right direction, such as the possibility for public benefit institutions to establish primary health care providers. It is obvious that weakening the ESS creates great speculation opportunities for the private sector. We would not like to believe that it is attempting to exploit the mismanagement of the ESS by subscribing and subscribing it to gradually move towards a privatization of health in every way. There are provisions for the EEA by which you are able by decision of the Governing Council to award contracts to private lawyers, while there is a specialised and well-managed legal service that operates with the assistance of the Legal Board of State. This choice, beyond its normal nature, has absolutely no justification in the explanatory statement. It is also recommended to devaluate the staff of the EEAS and indicate your intention to give all private individuals, causing unprecedented costs and waste without precedent. The incompatibility of the membership of the board of directors of pharmaceutical cooperatives as the board of directors of the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association shall be established. This option is completely undemocratic, as it limits two separate legal persons - pharmaceutical cooperatives and Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Associations - the right to vote, to vote and to stand as a candidate, and there is no justification for this disproportionate and unconstitutional restriction. However, it is indicative of how you perceive the democratic representation of legal persons in the field of health. In fact, the Association of Pharmaceutical Cooperatives of Europe has sent you a letter, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, which highlights their strong concern at this provision and also expresses the intention that, if this provision is passed, it will take legal action to protect the rights of cooperatives and their members. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Pulas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the government has become accustomed to baptising the fish meat in the Ministry of Health's draft law, presenting a magical picture of supposedly support for the ESS and health infrastructures, while in fact it aims to privatise it, which, for communication purposes, has been baptized by public and private partnerships. It is trying permanently to blackmail our positive tolerance, on the pretext of voting on donations that the system needs because of the long-term lack of resources. We recall that public health is only financed with 4.8 GDP, while the OECD countries are 7.8. But already two years after you took over the country's governance, you have brought no draft laws to the vote showing the real intention and vision of strengthening the ESS, creating primary health care and improving the country's public health infrastructure. On the other hand, you seem to be getting rid of this boom by increasingly showing towards the private sector, but it is gaining without control and evaluation of the health services it offers. The Change Movement doesn't fall into the trap you craft. We are voting for tolerance, but not accepting your public health policy. No more patches, arrangements and communication artifacts to find accomplices to the back of the patients and staff of the ESS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u7	Until the Step is ready, because I also heard Mr Poula say about 6.5 billion of the expenditure increase in 2004-2009, then you were not in Parliament, but if you were here, you would remember that when I went to the Ministry of Health in 2004, I found it owed to third parties 2.4 billion and we had in front of us the Olympic Games. With the mandate of the Prime Minister at the time, 2.4 billion to third parties were paid to do the Olympic Games, which we inherited from the government of Mr Simitis and our infamous professor Costa Stefani as Minister of Health. Mr. Blonde, who sits there, and I'm sure he'll have searched all this, he'd have seen it. We continue with Mr. George Lambroulis, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Once again in the same work of spectators with a bill, of course, which is part of our anti-grassroots policy and its tragic effects on the life and health of our people. A policy that is totally opposed to the necessary development, staffing, equipment of the public health system and the exploitation of the enormous potential of science and technology for the benefit of our people. A policy loyal to the implementation of the strategic guidelines and choices of all urban governments, the European Union, which results in active government sub-financing, cost-benefit measures, strengthening individual responsibility and not state responsibility. A policy implemented by all governments in our country, since people's health, public health, are unacceptable costs that prevent the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. Thus, the enormous shortages in the health system show the real guilty person with whom our workers, our people, should be measured, namely the dominance of the laws of the market, the laws that want health and disease in terms of profitability, investment and competition, who face public health spending as unnecessary, undevelopmental costs, the prevalence of the logic of this commodity's health and service, and not a social asset, which is guaranteed to everyone free of charge and on the basis of needs. These are the reasons why subordinated public hospitals are status, operate with exhausted health personnel, public primary health care is typified to non-existent. It deepens the commercialisation and business operation of public health structures, while a new attack on the public health system is being prepared by extending flexible working relationships, entering private individuals, attacking full and exclusive employment with the recent anti-corruption abortion that you voted for a few days ago, as regards your healthcare area, the government of SYRIZA has prevented you, while a new attack is being pushed by the expansion of PPPs, the erection of big business in public hospitals, the expansion of their commercial character and their operation with private economic criteria as businesses, more tighter, cost-benefit logic. And you are now coming with the bill that we are discussing, like the previous period, especially after the pandemic began, and you are trying to present to the people as salvation for the public health system the policy responsible for the problems that this is facing. A policy that has led to the collapse of health systems even in advanced countries, leaving patients uncovered with other health problems, as in our country. And precisely the measures you have taken and you continue to take are a confession to defeating the bankrupt policy, the underfinancing, the commercialisation and privatization of health, the coexistence of the public and private sectors that all governments over time are implementing and all other urban parties agree independently of any minor differences in management. And you now come cynically and present as tools to upgrade the public health system all that during the pandemic cost thousands of lives. That is why, for a year and a half, you have not only been consciously deafing and ignoring the demands and suggestions made to you on several occasions by the hospital doctors, but are trying to smear them, slander them, prosecutors, disciplinary and dismissals. These are all - let us remind ourselves - the fighters of health who were hypocritically applauding and shed crocodile tears in public, while for a year and a half you have refused to meet them and you have been hiding. I have here the memorandum, which was sent to you, since you did not accept them at a meeting. I am presenting the memorandum with the demands and suggestions of the hospital doctors to take it - if you have not received it - in your view, a memorandum of consent from the Hospital Doctors Federation. [[At this point, F Vice-President George Lambroulis presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] So the sanitarians who claim what? What they are entitled to in order to meet the requirements of their work in dangerous and unhealthy conditions, with multiple shifts and on-calls, with dozens of days and days of normal leave. That is why the Prime Minister yesterday, once again, avoided talking about substantial reinforcement and shielding of the public health system, ahead of the Delta mutation that will dominate Greece as well. It has not announced any aid measures for public hospitals, for primary health care. On the contrary, it showed the government's dangerous perception of the issue of vaccination and, more generally, of the protection of public health, highlighting the most degenerated version of individual responsibility, giving gifts to youth, instead of ensuring the people's essential information, issues which, ultimately, enhance irrationality and undermine the protection of the health of the people. In this very policy, which all governments have been applying over time, it is also the orientation of the bill, since it perpetuates and extends the temporary and certain working relationships, strengthens the system of movements of health from one unit to another, from a unit in a vaccination centre, that is to say it requires the integrated version of the anti-grassroots policy and modern working relationships, for which the state does not put 1 euro, while the workers will not know where they will dawn the next day. Of course, at no point in the bill is there any mention of the recruitment of permanent staff, the simulation of all workers who are serving on various contracts with an end date, as they claim, are demanding by health workers in public hospitals, primary health care. At the same time, with the forecasts of the other 83s, of the Ministry of Citizen Protection and 84 of the Ministry of Education, you are planning to re-establish contractors following the dismissal of contractors, who are now giving them a quarterly extension, up to 3 September 2021, in the areas of cleanliness, guarding and disinfection, while in the same direction, for example, the 5th Health Region, which, in fact, has been sacking ninety-four employees in health centres, TOMY, who have been working as contractors for about a year and a half in the areas of cleanlinesing and storage. You're throwing them on the road. Don't you have to? They cover standing and constant needs. And, of course, you have answered us on a timely basis and we know what will happen. They're getting fired tomorrow. Why don't you take them right now? So at the same time that you are not hiring staff and by alibis, pandemics and staff shortages, with Article 18, you will be extending for a year, by the end of 2021, the work of the doctors of the ESS who completed the 60th year of age and retired, a regulation which constitutes a rabbit for the legalisation of the extension of working life. At the same time, with the provision for setting up health care providers by public-private institutions, I expect you to tell us what they will be or what these public-private institutions referred to in Article 4, with the "vessel" character "non-profit" is taking yet another step towards strengthening business action and primary health care, while it must be the sole responsibility of the state. At the same time, by exploiting pandemics, the Government also invokes this bill provokes business groups both in terms of repayment of their debts but also in terms of increased payments for the sale of business services to the State, instead of without compensation for their pension, by Article 53. So, for example, with Articles 63, 64, 65, with the collection arrangement for clawback for multipliers, you make another gift for businessmen, while it is a challenge to provide business groups from those who owe them, to pay them back - if they pay them back - in ten years - a hundred and twenty instalments - in fact, Similarly, with Article 65, you are making another provocative charge for businessmen on the medicine, but at the same time, the medicine is too small for the people, since it is forced to put its hand in the pocket. It is clear that the people from their own experience realise that no urban government and urban state can trust to gamble their health to play the game of major business groups. A state that is incapable of providing the people with a public free health system capable of facing a health crisis, burdening responsibility on the people, but at the same time capable of forming the environment for protecting the profitability of business groups, placing labour rights and needs on the margins. These developments confirm that the workers, the self-employed, the poor farmers, women, the young people need to step up their struggle, their struggle, together with the unions, the unions, the people's movement for health protection measures, to defend their rights. In this race the JRC declares present and will take the lead. I would like to refer to two amendments tabled by the Communist Party of Greece, Mr President. The first concerns the immediate permanentisation of the four thousand workers with an OAED programme in the public health system. It concerns workers who have joined the health system since 2017, and with continuous renewals their work has been extended to date and we expect the Minister to be placed. We have also tabled a second amendment in support of the legal request from the Panatian Committee on Social Welfare and the Attica Trade Union, to amend a common ministerial decision. In our view, the amendment ensures that the services of the municipalities and regions of these workers, of the thirty-six thousand five hundred workers, which are in various bodies in the wider public sector - municipalities and regions, are continued. In view of the large gaps that exist in permanent and undetermined staff, in our view, it is necessary to renew at least until the end of their working time, in order to apply the second one we have in the amendment, namely their survival. Since they will not be permanent - if the amendment is accepted - after 31/12-2021, they can - because they will not be able - to receive unemployment benefit for as long as they remain unemployed. Two words, Mr President, about the first two articles in the bill concerning the amendment of the Convention. It is a contract from 2018 overall, with specific measures. We believe - and we say this once again - that these measures provided for in the comprehensive contract and in the specific articles of the bill must be the sole responsibility of the State, must be fully financed by the State budget, must be managed by permanent staff of full and exclusive employment and must ensure adequate and modern medical equipment and, of course, must be part of the universally developed public health system, so that all preventive diagnostic and therapeutic actions are provided in good time to those in need, without conditions and conditions. At the same time, any offers that may be made complementary and complementary. Moreover, the money available to the institution is, in fact, a very small part of the profits, a drop in the ocean, resulting from the wild exploitation of workers from their unpaid working time, which generates profits. In fact, the so-called 'national benefactor' and the mutual benefits of the institution, which you all applaud together, are in favour of, having its seat in Bermuda, since it has not found in Greece for so many years a suitable building, but has preferred the appropriate tax haven, is it not this national benefactor who plundered workers and the whole country with the blessings of the urban state? And now he comes and gives five dozen out of his unblemished profits, which, beyond the wild farm, even came up at the price of tens of workers at the shipyards, as well as hundreds of inhabitants as a result of the infection he caused in the Trinity. At the same time, this type of conventions from both the present and the previous and the previous government are being used to influence and exert a deeper ideological influence on workers by seeking to cultivate on the ground of the serious problems of the people's families, the human face of the system, exploitation, capitalism, and to reconcile workers with the idea that they can also overcome any crumbs as the profitability of entrepreneurs does and, at the same time, workers become addicted to the concept of social services and benefits not as a right, but as charity. So they either own themselves or through the state an infinitely few part of the profits earned by workers in order to ensure multiple profits by seeking integration and so-called social peace. In conclusion, Mr President, we are voting against the bill in principle. Of course, there are provisions which regulate some of the issues on which we are placed positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u9	Mrs Maria Athanasios is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The New Democracy's desire to impose sanctions on non-vaccination Greek citizens demonstrates that the government instead of uniting the Greeks. A government that resorts to division, social automation, which inevitably brings social anomaly, is a dangerous government. After a year and a half, the government has done nothing in the direction of strengthening primary care and the medicine that really saves lives. Of course, he has not received any welfare for the new mutation while globally alarms have occurred. The Prime Minister has chosen to turn pandemic into a political and class instrument against the citizens. Today's announcements about the privileges of vaccination. All they do consciously is cause the anger of the majority of citizens leading to deliberate marginalisation. The notorious freedom card with which the government tries to convince young people with a lion of 150 euros is an unprecedented youth bribery. It seems that the government has not succeeded in persuading it to vaccination, and now they are resorting to practices with benefits and half the young people. It is incomprehensible for the Greek Prime Minister to put a cost on the lives of young people, even separating our young people into two categories. A Prime Minister who divides Greeks into vaccinations and is not even discriminatory about normal living, which is an inalienable right to all citizens in a democracy is an inadequate prime minister. 150 euros is not a freedom card. It's not a reward. EUR 150 is a bundle of money. It's oil, it's takeover, exploitation, disrespect and devaluation of free choice. You are clearly blocking our young people who are vulnerable because of the unemployment and the indifference you have submitted to them not only with the pandemic, but also with the economic crisis and the latest labour laws you have put in place. 150 euros are borrowed and will be returned multiplely. Article 82 concerns the Hospital of Kefalonia, which is faced with a great deal of problems as we know. In particular, the General Hospital of Kefalonia was the last hospital recruited by subsidiary. In addition, because of the above blockade, the Hospital is faced with the following problems: Indicatively, the pathological clinic has a pathologist who makes twenty-four on-call, paid on seven and is the only pathologist in public structure on two islands. Also, there is only one anesthesiologist, which involves delaying and postponing surgery. In addition, the ICM remains tightly closed and no action has been taken towards establishing it in the pandemic. Finally, the building infrastructure, especially the old wing, is in a terrible state since the 2014 earthquakes have not done any repair at all. Of course, with all these problems it is understandable that the hospital is standing and fulfilling its role based only on the honesty of its employees. That is why we call for the Greek Solution for the permanentisation of all OAED subsidiary and staff and all contractors for all hospitals on our islands, otherwise they will never be manned. Furthermore, it is worth noting that the Kefalonia Mountain Society made us known that the National Druise of Ain is built a chest disease therapy centre. In 2004 a construction company carried out the restoration of the building on behalf of the Prefecture of Kefalonia. The building is now a centre for information and mountain retreat at the National Park of Aos Kefalonia. The question, however, is: Have you spent money on resurrecting a building that we will do what? Information centre and shelter from what? The islanders would prefer the building to operate as a hotel for people suffering from chronic chest diseases and not just. Continuing on the draft legislation that you are introducing to the vote, I would like to stress that on the issue of donations of private individuals, our position is that, of course, donations are useful to the public health system, but in no way can they substitute state care for the organisation of the health system, nor can the care and responsibility of the public service be transferred to private individuals, whether they are volunteers, or to speculators. Unfortunately, more than ever, the need to support the public health system and private donations is more necessary because you have used as a pretext the ongoing ten-year economic crisis that preceded the memorialities and which led you to decide to let the HSH weaken, abandon it, subordinate it without inspiring and lifeless material and lead it consciously to complete decommissioning. In essence, therefore, the acceptance of the State's donations and dependency by individuals is a presumption of the state's inability to ensure the rights of citizens, its inability to fulfil its constitutional obligations on such a fundamental and crucial issue as health during the national crisis. In addition, I would like to raise the state budget for the financial year 2020. On the one hand, you recognise the need to strengthen public health expenditure that has been set at heights, on the other hand, you do not do much about it, and you are consciously choosing this action because of your neoliberal policy. We have repeatedly pointed out that we are far behind the OECD and European states' average public health spending. Their growth, therefore, must be permanent and investment in public health infrastructure, which we very much remain, must be a state priority. Article 7: Prolongation of PERSON staff contracts, Central Department of Health. Article 10: Prolongation of the EAFRD arrangements and others. Article 12: extension of a fixed-term private contract of employment of the EGE and others. Article 13: extension of pandemic emergency arrangements. Article 16: Extension of contracts by the National Centre of HBS. Article 17: extension of the term of office of the management bodies of the health regions. Article 18: extension of residence time to ERC doctors. Article 29: extension of family doctors contracts. Article 30: prolongation of fixedterm work contracts for doctors to meet emergencies. All this concerns provisions which refer to extensions, i.e. semi-metres, without a long-term plan, reconstruction and upgrading. It is only provisions for the temporary management of the coronary pandemic, staff movements, workers, EOPY contracts and other similar provisions. The Government does not intend to reconstruct primary and secondary health care but only to baptise the permanent needs and conditions of everyday life as extraordinary, even though they have been a daily life in the last 14 months and consist of elements which can be predicted and with an appropriate and elementary organisation to be effectively addressed. Instead, instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to reconstruct primary health care and solve the problem of subsistence of hospitals, the government has actually failed to adequately protect our national health system. Article 4 lays down provisions by which bodies, public bodies and public bodies may set up primary health care units. The possibility of public benefit institutions creating primary health care means further weakening the social role of the ESS and can lead to a lack of financial control of the above private bodies. In Article 5, “Electronic Health Services Archive” there is a risk of breaching personal data. The so-called "archiving system" actually embodies the citizen. We would like to know as a Greek Solution how to safeguard citizens' rights and medical confidentiality. Article 63 regulates the collection of automatic reimbursements, ‘clawback’. We would like to point out once again that clawback has started as a temporary measure, but unfortunately, after repeated extensions, the present leadership has extended it until 2024. It is unfair for private primary health care to take on another burden when the budget for diagnostic tests and actions is not reached in days of tranquility, as much as in days of pandemic. The State must finance the budget for diagnostic tests to cover, at least, the excessive demand created to meet the needs of patients during the pandemic. The increase in operating costs in combination with the given increase in the ‘clawback’ that will arise and the existence of the rebate does not only generate profits, but, on the contrary, accumulates damage to diagnostic laboratories, multi-medicals and circus doctors. Article 81 “Procedure for the calculation of discounts and benefits of public hospitals from drug purchases” is to do with the handling of medicinal products that have entered into agreements with the Trading Committee in hospitals. We would like to point out here that the provision you enter is essentially being circumvented by confidentiality. It is not possible to introduce an article which effectively abolishes the principle of confidentiality and is in practice inconsistent with the negotiation agreements between companies and a State on drug prices and reduces any incentive to provide relevant discounts in this type of agreement. With regard to Article 41: Why should all of this be done by way of derogation from the national provisions on public procurement, since it is intended to cover the protection of public health? Are national provisions on public procurement not sufficient, are they not appropriate? Why should all the above be carried out by way of derogation? And if that is the case, why not amend the provisions on public procurement? It's a rhetorical question. The provisions are good and sufficient. You like to destroy them on the pretext of supposed emergencies to serve private interests. That is why you prefer the private sector partnership instead of the upgrading of the public health system, which you are holding strangled in years, because your purpose is to privatise health. In Article 44, ‘Preservation of special equipment for the ICM and MMF and extraordinary development of beds for the ICM and MMF’, how many beds do we have to deal with the pandemic? Are they fully manned, with appropriate infrastructure and appropriate, trained personnel? We refer with great scepticism to the provision of Article 77, 'Specially qualified ESS doctors' and ask ourselves: Are doctors who are moving in intensively, able to provide adequate services? Are they trained intensifiers? Also, who will replace them at the posts left empty to come to serve at the ICUs? You anticipated all this and how? Article 53, ‘Reimbursement of private clinics and therapies which have been forced to cover emergencies in public health as a result of the outbreak of the coronary’: the compensation of the use of private clinics and therapies which have necessarily been committed to the needs of the pandemic is extended. Tax-free allowances. A huge profit for the private sector, which benefits from your refusal to upgrade the public sector. They are charged with their facilities and private individuals are compensated by the taxes of the citizens, who, however, pay public health contributions rather than private profit. Illegality! Article 55, ‘Obligatory diagnostic tests for coronary virus’: The mandatory, due to the pandemic, control of reliable effectiveness of self test and rapid tests will restrict the freedom of citizens with the competence granted to the Minister of Health who can legally determine which and when they will be subjected to diagnostic tests as an essential condition for being able to work. What about the others? In Article 60, 'Organisational matters', no reference shall be made to the way in which governance systems are controlled. In short, only the EEA Board of Directors will decide where sovereignty is and where objectivity is. When will you decide to modernise EEAS procedures in order to be able to respond to increased pandemic public health expenditure? Article 71, "Special arrangements for the liquidation of private pharmacies": Convincing answers should be given as to what you intend to do to delay the necessary administrative and accounting checks on the payment of pharmaceutical expenses to pharmacies. The very existence of many small pharmacies is at stake, because you are quite simply not able to create and implement a simple clearing system. Article 72, ‘Funds of the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology. Unique S.A.: Do we reasonably wonder what the costs of fares, flasks, storage costs, transport and distribution of material? Why should individuals be employed for something that is so fundamental, which is not related to an emergency, but has always existed as a stable and lasting need and has there been the possibility of an early organisation in connection with the trafficking of medicinal products? Once again a non-transparent State transaction and a private. On the occasion of the dismantling of public money, without any clarification for any control. On the last chapter to be voted on - Articles 85 et seq. - it is time to modernise the functioning of the courts with employment. Good e-service, but they need hands to handle the processes. Certificates shall not be issued by computers, but by computer operators. You have taken care - as far as you have done - of the submission of applications by electronic means, but you have neglected to carry out the further procedure. There's no staff. It may not take one and two and three months for the issue of basic certificates relating to companies and which, by such certificates, depend on their participation in tenders or their general business activity. Gentlemen, you claim that for your day public health has been upgraded and that our country lives a time when it must feel proud. New methods, new ICUs, new spirit, new, fresh air in our hospitals. Really, what is your concern for regional hospitals and health centres, which are responsible for millions of our fellow citizens? For example, if during your trip or your private visit to the region, was the need to provide you with the first aid in a health center or to be hospitalized or, even, to visit as a patient in a regional hospital, would you choose with the same comfort and confidence the public hospital in the place that would happen to be or would you return to Athens as soon as possible for hospitals in any of its major hospitals or even in private clinics? In short, which of you would think, if they were in need, "fast to run to the nearest health center of Akrata, Dervenaki, Fornus, Viannos" and so on. Or would he accept hospital treatment or surgery, for example, Calavryton, Grevenons or Polygirl? The reference of names is random, but representative, of places that should adequately serve a large number of our fellow citizens who support our region. The Greek Solution is voting against at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u11	We're closing down the special speakers with Mrs. Maria Apajidis from Mera25. In order for the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Kikilias, the Minister, will speak around 14.00 p.m. to 15.00 p.m. and Mr. Kontozamanis will speak at the end of the meeting. I'm saying this to set up how you want to talk. And I would remind you that you have protagonists and dents. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill relates mainly to arrangements for the treatment of the COVID -19. As a PART25, we oppose the fact that it does not provide permanent and long-term solutions to the major issues that have arisen from the pandemic. We believe that pandemic should be an opportunity to all of us to make a long-term enhancement of primary health care. Instead, we are seeing a slogan of temporary measures which either engender the Government's ideologies or mobilize the pandemic and the oppression of the so-called Staff State of the two countries, while public health is assigned to individuals. I will, however, concentrate on the articles that we are critical of. The important first two articles of the bill relate to amendments to two already ratified donations contracts between the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State. As MERA25, we are very sceptical, because while it is, in principle, positive that some resources are provided as a donation to upgrade and strengthen the health space, it is extremely negative that the government resorts to the logic of outsourcing, that is, outsourcing, in a sector such as health, which is a constitutional obligation of the state. We need to recall here Article 21 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the State ensures that citizens' health and takes specific measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived. This principle is to be forgotten by the implementation of the Memorandum policies which have led to the State being minimized. The health, the most elevating asset, is transformed into a case that depends on the kindness of individuals. We are led, with similar bills, to a self - astonishing prophecy of neoliberalism, which feeds on his failures. As the policies pursued do not have the expected results, the increasingly aggressive implementation of such policies, which have caused the problem from the outset, such as, for example, in the memorandum years, wage and pension cuts lead to a recession that reduces GDP, so that further reductions in wages and pensions are required. In other words, we see something like this happening now in the health sector. The depreciation of the public health system leads to the welcome of donations, thus further depreciating the ERC. Public-private partnerships are presented as a necessity now, since the State is considered incapable of managing the ESS effectively. But, in fact, the state has left the ESS in its fate. So these donations are not innocent, but they are part of a vicious circle, with self-esteeming prophecies for weakening public health. As MERA25, of course, and we are critical of the bill, whereby the state is taking away its responsibility for primary health and transferring it where, as we see in the article below, Article 4, to service providers in public institutions. And you have not clarified exactly what you mean. We asked the committee too. If you want, answer us. Unfortunately, however, our disagreements also extend to other parts of the bill, beginning with Article 3. Ladies and gentlemen, the fuss from the congress of ingenuity has not yet come to light and the Ministry of Health brings a bill, in its first provisions, to Article 3, which increases the time of permitted aided reproduction by two years, from 50 to 52. The purpose of the government is obvious, that breeding centres should be transformed into centres of health tourism, with the government putting the profits of individuals above the care of women's health, which he is willing to sacrifice. In other words, it appears that the Government has not put any mind on the logic of the recently planned subnatality conference. These are reactions that show that society is resisting the maintenance that the government is attempting. Society refuses to work on its wife and body for purposes of feasibility that ultimately go back - where? - in private profit. Because it is hypocrisy at a time when the bill is blatantly devouring hope to the new generation, to young working couples who want to make a real family, to show the government a hypocritical sensitivity to the creation of new families. If the government really cared about the future of this country, it would have been imprinted on the labour bills, because that depends on whether we have families. I speak to you on account of knowledge and as a young man. But what does the government do? It promotes a conservative, irreversible ideological identity, with cynical consistency. On the one hand, it destroys the hope of workers to have a family, on the other, it brings arrangements for assisted reproduction, based on the profits of individuals and not on the health of the mother. At the same time, together with Article 3, we are naturally and negatively surprised that Article 5 establishes an electronic health record. In other words, there will be a record, among other things, of maternal breast-feeding, abortion, assisted reproduction and delivery as evidence of the fulfilment of the Ministry of Health mission. Instead of serving his subject, which is the health of women, the Ministry deals with their file. This file could potentially be converted into something like a modern social mind certificate. We fear that if we look together at the elements of Articles 3 and 5, we will see a general sense of government caressing the conservative reflexes of obsolete times of control and work for the female body, which we want to forget. However, there are more general problems with Article 5 which the computer record provides for health services. This is a centralised system of archiving, where anything medical is recorded, from medical operations to stocks in vaccines and other from public and private health bodies. While during the pandemic, when the situation was really critical, the government - let me express it - had lost the boulevard, now after the feast attempts to build a huge system, which will include everything: who work, who work, who work, who are, who are cured, why they are cured, what has been prescribed, whom and why. I mean, they'll record everything and be detained for at least twenty years. You will, of course, tell us that there is such a provision for data encoding and encryption. But in practice we know well that it is a huge system that does not guarantee the protection of citizens' personal data and is dangerous, let alone when it comes to medical operations. As doctors, most of you in here know it better. The fear caused to us by Article 5 becomes much greater in paragraphs 7 and 9, where the award, design and implementation of the system is envisaged, i.e. the processing of the system to more than one performer, and even the sale by the Ministry of Health is foreseen, given the system, without, of course, identifying the data subjects. We believe that pooling the data into such a large system poses a real serious risk to commercial use and profit-making. Furthermore, Article 15 stipulates that vaccination centres will be managed by administrative staff from the Armed Forces and Security Body. It is a classic tactic of the present government to carry everything, namely all the necessary personnel, to the Armed Forces to really avoid the necessary recruitment. But, more generally, it is about the known police rule of the government, which seems to follow the doctrine 'whoever this question is, the police will give the answer', but a police that deals with everything, but fails in its main task, which is to reduce crime. Unfortunately, we all see that crime is growing spectacularly. So the security bodies everywhere in education, health, the symbolic occupation of the public space, everywhere except where it should be, that is to say, the protection of citizens from crime, the murders, the feminism, the rape that has been much more intensified at this time. Articles 16 to 34 define extensions due to COVID -19, among others - in accordance with Article 17 - and the extension of the mandate of the management bodies of the health regions and of the - and - of the - famous private doctors used as an alibi for the non-participation of the private sector in the treatment of unemployment. On the other hand, let me say with regard to Article 25 that there is a need for permanent recruitment and not to extend a status of uncertainty. That is to say, there is a big problem here with this and with other articles in the bill. We finally need to stop having an emergency and it is to be seen as normality. We want firm solutions. That is why we are particularly critical and opposed to the bill. Articles 41, 42, 43 raise issues of public procurement for the treatment of COVID-19. In other words, they provide services from the EGE for the examination of samples to private providers and provide for extensions to conclude contracts for primary health care structures. We are critical of the fact that we believe that the derogating supplies and commissions should finally be stopped. We are also extremely critical of Article 53 of the compensation for private clinics and therapists who have necessarily committed themselves because of the COVID -19 pandemic. This is an asymmetrical gift to the clinicians. The government, taking advantage of the pandemic, unequivocally strengthens the health sector, and should really have imposed private clinics instead of compensation. Likewise, with regard to Article 54 on the recruitment of ancillary staff at the central department of the Ministry of Health and at the Ministry of Health, we consider that these are emblematic solutions, while the ERC needs support with permanent staff. I would like to insist a little more on Article 70, which provides that the members of the CEO and the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association are incompatible. We call for the withdrawal of this article, as it has a decisive effect on the operation of most drug cooperatives. Many members of the management boards and co-operatives of pharmacists are also members of management boards of local pharmaceutical associations. All these pharmacists will be forced to choose one of the two. But what does that mean? The management boards and SFAS will be at risk of being stripped by executives. Many Sifas will be forced to vote and to pay the vacancies. In local societies, except for a few large urban centers, people who deal with collectives are specific and numerically few. Article 70 will create serious problems with the voting of the ballots in the next elections, and the election will be altered, as expressed in most of the election campaigns of the PSAs. Now, the conversion of conditions is sudden and the change of elected will be violent. Many questions arise: What is the basis for this change? What was the urgent need for such an incompatibilities to be legislated at that time, with such a narrow margin of time? Who requested this change? Why does the incompatible effect concern only the wholesale pharmaceutical industry, i.e. the pharmaceutical cooperatives and not the pharmacists and shareholders of private stores? In addition, Articles 73 and 74 work on the coronary pandemic for the benefit of others. Article 73 introduces an exceptional temporary arrangement until 31 December for the training and modification of hospital establishments by means of a joint Ministerial Decision instead of a Presidential Decree, as provided for in the Final State Act. Another derogating from the Catholic law for your so-called Final State. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Article 74 amends a relevant law on the choice of an instrument for health regions and health services in order to make it clear that, in the case of a head of service, he is not going to replace him, but rather to replace him on a temporary basis. Evidently, this arrangement aims to keep the chair of people of the choice of government warm. Ladies and gentlemen, the election slogan of the ruling party was'return to normality'. But the bills you bring to governance are a return to the emergency or, to put them even more accurately, a return to the endless extension of the emergency as a new regularity. In other words, through the constant emergency, neoliberal policies should be built on as a new normality, but also on the eve of the days of the so-called Executive State, which is not at all neoliberal, but is the worst form of government, an anti-lingual state of affairs of the days. As MERA25, we are critical of the bill, because it serves this vicious combination, on the one hand a state of qualm and on the other hand a health assignment that is a constitutional obligation of the state to powerful individuals. This is a toxic combination that we must not get used to. Mr President, we are voting 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. After the special speakers have finished, we enter the first circle of speakers, with the first speaker Mr. Athanasios Ljupi from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again the Stavros Niarchos Foundation supports the public health system. It is true that in Greece mental health was not the most important thing within the National Health System. Even on a global level, mental health issues have been neglected through pandemic. In a recent report, the OECD highlighted the need to increase investment and the quality of mental health care immediately. The government took the initiative early to raise the issue of prevention in the field of mental health. This was done in the context of the 'Spyros Doxiadis' programme at the level of tertiary prevention. Just a few days ago, the Ministry of Health published the new programme contract to strengthen the seventy-five centres for the prevention of dependency and the promotion of psychosocial health. The Government, in cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, is now coming to focus on a major issue, which concerns the mental health of children and adolescents. Over the past few decades, addiction issues have been gigantic, such as alcohol, smoking, drug use, the Internet, and even incidents of intimidation both within and outside the school environment. The previous one and a half years with the special status of necessary isolation, removed children and adolescents from their daily activities and from their normal level of socialisation. It is necessary, more than ever, to intervene at the level of children's mental health services, and that is what is happening today. The donation contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is amended in order to design and implement a five-year scientific programme to strengthen the mental health sector of children and adolescents and improve the quality of services. In this context, mental health professionals are trained, a national network of mental health professionals is set up and the purchase of suitable equipment is ensured for the provision of telepsy services. The institution finances the study and renovation and supply of equipment for the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital which will house the national reference centre for mental health, offering support to children and their families. This is a really worthwhile effort, which is costing by the institution at $15 million. In fact, as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has announced, cooperation has been ensured with the "Child Mind Institute" of the United States, which will provide valuable knowledge at the level of child mental health care. In addition, the institution agreed to extend its donation to additional areas at Komotini Hospital, such as c - Camera, which very few regional hospitals have such services, magnetic, surgical rooms, etc. Also, the equipment of two new buildings at Attica hospital. The draft law also contains a number of further provisions in the health sector relating mainly to extensions of time limits. The pandemic has also hit the speed at which the national authority of medically assisted reproduction responds to requests from women. That is why the age limit is increasing from 50 to 52. The positions of qualified nurses are distributed, particularly with a view to emergency and intensive nursing and mental health. Very important and the prolongation of health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups by the end of September 2021. It is extended until the end of September and the possibility of recruiting an ancillary medical nurse and other staff in public hospitals. The possibility of haemodialysis in appropriate private sector units associated with the EEAS continues to take place in the most deprived and uninsured patients from chronic end-stage renal failure. At the committee stage, the representatives of the workers of the EAFRD, the first-line people, welcomed the implementation of their permanent request for transfers, on the basis of their family situation and on criteria such as spouse's co-service and localisation. It is important to keep narcotics books from pharmacists who have also been very positively accepted by the President of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association. Very important is the provision which allows hospital agencies to take place with a CSM by the end of the year and not with the time-consuming presidential decrees. A characteristic example is the Volos Hospital, which operates with the last decade, with the needs of the hospital having changed drastically. New sections have been added and we are unable to declare positions with a cognitive subject in these new sections. Finally, provisions are being introduced to resolve procedural issues arising out of the judiciary because of the pandemic. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the vaccination procedure as it is developing. We have recently exceeded the hundreds of thousands of vaccinations per day, which ranks us in the seventh place in the European Union. The excellent organisation and implementation of the vaccination programme are recognised by everyone. Yesterday, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced an original incentive for 18 to 25 years of age vaccinated or vaccinated within 2021, the 150 euro voucher that can be used in travel, museum visits and cultural events. Of course, the Qualified Opposition described the "Freedom Card" as an attempt to get young people out of the pretext of vaccination. This is an entirely unfair claim and even conflicts with the SYRIZA's well-known official position in favour of vaccination. Of course, young people and young people are not being purchased with voucher. The government simply invented an imaginary way of advertising the vaccination campaign in the young ages at risk - we all know it anyway - less than the coronary and probably not have the same zeal to be vaccinated but passed on the disease to older people. In this attempt to attract citizens to be vaccinated, there are no regularisms, populism or micro-partisanisms. We all need to send out the message of the need for vaccination and through the European Union to help third countries and developing countries supply vaccines to build a global immunity wall against future repetitive coronary waves, pandemic due to mutations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Mr. Lippi. Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor and immediately thereafter Mrs. Sophia - Heido Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law, which we are debating today, concerns the ratification of an amendment to the original contract between the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State for the upgrading of a series of major projects undertaken by the original agreement to support the structures of the ESS. I was honoured, ladies and gentlemen, to be rapporteur in plenary in September 2018 when the initial mother's contract between the two parties came for ratification in the Greek Parliament. In this capacity let me remind you that the projects included in this contract were proposals from the Greek Government at the time entirely assessed by the Ministry of Health political leadership that the institution adopted, proof of the validity and credibility enjoyed by our government. For the sole purpose of upgrading the public health system for the benefit of citizens. The changes made to the Convention and the draft legislation under discussion, I think, have been carried out by our rapporteur. With regard to the provisions relating to the management of the pandemic: they concern mainly extensions of measures already taken, but here I think a more general assessment of the management carried out by the government and the reference to the major deficits of this management is useful. As a major pillar, for example, of registration and epidemiological surveillance and of traceability, it has chosen self-tests, a method which we know has serious deficiencies and serious sensitivity deficits, without also a serious reference mechanism, not only to the citizens' self-reportation. At the same time, the slow pace of vaccination progress is known: 28.3% of the population based on ECDC data, at the same time many serious deficiencies in covering large areas with vaccination lines, let me refer to north-west Chios, for example, where dozens of mountain villages remain out of vaccination with difficulties among the inhabitants. But the most important thing I can say is that it is a serious deficiency, the total absence of strengthening the structures of the ESS with permanent and qualified staff, the serious needs for staffing of the system, which is struggling with the treatment of patients with COVID -19 and the staffing of the vaccination lines and which has been dealt with by the entrants mainly by internal personnel movements. Primary health care likewise remains the poor relative of the system, while taking over the extra charge of serving visitors and tourists with a particular seasonal increase in the island regions of the country. But this situation is not unexplainable. The choices made by the government and by Mr Mitsotakis personally are the core of their appreciation for the public health system, a policy of appreciation and tactics in the context of a hard neoliberal policy that they are faithfully serving. I think it was right that the government, after a brief break of seeming confidence in the ESS and until the difficulties of pandemic pass, after the squirrels, returns to its well-known and tested practices, has been baptized in a successful story that also tends to believe and think that where it is the end of pandemic - a great mistake - it remembers again the well-known practices on PPPs, on the granting of fillets to individuals and others. And for this reason, I will mention, for example, the decisions of the administration of the Hospital of Chios, which delivers one after another, neural sectors of the hospital, contractors and some time ago the cleanliness of the hospital spaces and recently the laundry services. The administration of the Hospital of Chios has also advanced other unprecedented practices. For example, it withdrew and conduct a preliminary examination for the accuracy of the CV of the staff, administrative and nursing staff submitted in 2011. The objective of obvious ladies and gentlemen, intimidation, that is, the terror of workers, including top trade union officials, is also to be found. That's the way... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, for one minute your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u17	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u18	This is the way you understand the functioning of the public health system, i.e. as a state spoil. This is the way you treat the workers in hospitals: in other words, the persecution. This is your policy and nothing from the communication wrapping you are trying to sell to the Greek people. And one final point. Allow me to confirm once again and in the most emphatically our absolute commitment to the need to speed up citizens' vaccinations. We highlight the delays and shortcomings of the system, but we urge citizens to be vaccinated. Other voices create confusion and cultivate a climate of distrust, a climate of disastrous for everyone at this juncture. I'm putting down the decisions of the workers' union. [[At this point, Mr Andreas Michailides presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr Michaelides, and especially for the last revulsion. Mrs Asimakopoulou will now speak from the Greek Solution, shortly after the Deputy Minister, Zoe Rapti, and immediately after that, the Minister of Culture, Mr Mendononi, will develop the amendment for a while. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we first see in the first part the amendment of the 3-220 individual donation contract, which concerns the establishment of the General Hospital of Komotini by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. The institution fully undertakes the design and equipment of the new hospital to be set up in a new location in Komotini. He comes to replace a hospital with many confessed problems, the General Hospital of Komotinis "Sismanoglio". In addition to the other amendments, what changes and makes impressions are Article 3 concerning the project budget. It goes from 105 million euros to 102 million euros. And that's why? Because the VAT system is obviously also changing, as VAT is now being exempted. Water supply and electricity supply are also extended until the end of November 2021. In the second part of Part One, the donation contract of Law 4564/2018 is amended in order to cover the field of child mental health. And here we want to ask: What is the percentage of health funds allocated to the mental health of children and adolescents in Greece? Because that's critical. In the second part you start with the extension of the age limit to allow assisted reproduction due to the exceptional circumstances of COVID. This is a regulation which would be positive, but it creates a multitude of questions: 'if the person assisted is a woman', which we do not see for the first time, but why do we see it as such and do not change it? The exclusion from the control of the Ministry of Finance of primary health care providers is concerned. The same, however, is true of the framework of safeguarding personal data and medical confidentiality, particularly where the Ministry of Health allows the Ministry of Health to be able, against honor, even for statistical purposes. We have said this and will say it again about the particularly problematic extension of private-law contracts of a fixed term of office of the Ministry of Health. You do, as if you do not know what our country's health system needs: permanent doctors and not other charges with employees at the Ministry. Finally, look at the real problems of the place with seriousness and not with so much urgency. Prolong doctors' contracts until September 2021. No more permanent than the temporary? Evidently, that's how you legislate. You also provide for a six-month extension for contracts with doctors of reception and identification centres and hosting centres of refugees and migrants, because it is more obvious who you are most interested in in the Greek state. For both storage and cleaning services and the coverage of catering and feeding needs, and there are corresponding extensions and not recruitment. Is the legality of the costs of repayment of the ERC hospital obligations resulting from supplies of material goods and the provision of services carried out without the signature of a contract? So, an extension to the illegality? It is legitimate to consider the costs incurred in the context of exceptional procedures for the supply of IM medical equipment, even if the procedure provided for in the law has not been followed. A fair of opacity without end and natural derogations from any other general and special provisions, such as that of the National Centre for Blood and the term of office of the management bodies of the health regions. There are some kind of favourable regulations, such as that of sending medicines to vulnerable groups and patients who are being restricted, which is being extended. However, such arrangements are unfortunately a drop in the ocean of fragmentation with which you are dealing with health issues during a health crisis, which according to the bill is currently under way. Expansion of the extension and of what has to do with the subsidiary medical care and other auxiliary personnel. Extension to the chronic pathogens of the National Health System. What you cannot choose permanently, extend its temporary solution. And we are talking about'solution' - within introductory terms, of course - because the problems are not solved in this way, neither with semimeters nor with overlapping or with patches. And as if not all of this were enough, you separated the Greeks into two-speed citizens, according to the Prime Minister's statements yesterday. How far ahead is the split going to take us? How can we talk about democracy when you bring citizens to such dilemmas? Health is perhaps the most important issue for individuals and society. The state must ensure the care and care of all patients. The aim and priority of the state is to improve the health of citizens and the level of health services to citizens with a view to better quality of life in all sectors. This objective, however, has unfortunately been far away in Greek reality for decades, since infrastructure in many cases is reminiscent of a third world rather than a modern European state. Let us not witness again in images of the suffocation of the Greek hospitals. Illustrations are worthy of Greeks and Greek women who will need the services of the National Health System. We would like to emphasise once again that the Greek state must finally motivate through the production of wealth and the creation of new jobs in all those Greeks and Greek women who are abroad, to all of those six hundred thousand young people to return to the country of their hearts. We in the Greek Solution once again point to the needs for permanent and not temporary, fragmentary and with the logic of prolongation solutions. Don't give the charismatic shot to this critical health sector. Thank you. And thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you too, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Mr Zoe Raptis has the floor and, as we have said, immediately after the Minister for Culture, Mr Mendoni. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law two amendments to the main donation contract of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructures are being ratified. The initial donation contract that we are amending today, adding new projects, is part of the well-known program of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, "Environmental Initiative", which was launched, as we all know, in 2017. This cooperation led in September 2018 to the legislative ratification of this very important donation contract which initially included a number of key health projects, such as construction and equipment of three new hospitals, Komotini General Hospital, University Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki and Sparta General Hospital, as well as the provision of new equipment for the reinforcement of EKAB airport. Since then, according to the needs, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has been a great man in the effort of the Greek state to strengthen health services in the country. Such cooperation between the Greek Government and the institution could also continue within the pandemic by mapping new needs of the National Health System. In this context, both the Ministry and the Foundation have identified the existing needs in the area of mental health services for children and adolescents, which have increased with the recent health crisis. So we signed a memorandum of cooperation on the inclusion of a new individual donation, the main convention entitled 'Health Initiative', aiming precisely at strengthening mental health services for children and adolescents. This new donation, amounting to EUR 15 million, relates to an improvisation for the realisation of a five-year scientific project, the transfer and development of a leading international know-how in mental health in Greece in close cooperation with the International Child Mind Institute based in New York. This program aims to design and provide specialized training by mental health professionals in children and adolescents, to provide clinical cutting-edge technology, as well as to develop a modern care model in our country to upgrade services, as well as to facilitate access for our children to the protection and strengthening that they need. In this context, a national reference centre is planned. It concerns mental health and this centre will act as the local body implementing the new programme and will be installed in the General Children's Hospital "The Agia Sophia". Its location within the Children's Hospital - "Agia Sophia" will be crucial for the achievement of the aims of the program and the development of synergies with relevant bodies across Greece to best serve children and adolescents. The project, as we have said, will be financed exclusively by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The first part of the donation is Project 11, in particular the clinical support of both children and their families, with increased needs and more complex mental health needs, the exchange of best practices regarding the management of these complex mental health incidents, the development of networks of mental health professionals and partnerships across the country, the design and implementation of special educational programs, as well as the development for us of very important new electronic and digital telepsy facilities for the remote provision of the mental health services provided for. This reference centre will be managed by a group of about twelve people including psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers and professionals of related sciences. Finally, the possibility of providing scholarships to students specialising in mental health will also be provided through the programme, the costs of which will be fully covered by the Foundation. The second part of the donation is project 12. It includes the study of the reconstruction, regeneration and equipment of the existing building within the Children's Hospital for housing needs of the mentioned national reference centre. The creation of synergy between the national reference centre and the first University Paediatric Clinic of "Agia Sophia" will be crucial for the overall strengthening and upgrading of child mental health services. The institution shall fully undertake the reconstruction and equipment of the building of approximately two hundred square metres in order to meet its operational needs and provide quality services. The implementation of this project will take place with a budget of about EUR 400,000 and includes all stages, i.e. both the cost of preparing all the construction studies and the cost of purchasing and placing the necessary equipment that will be of excellent quality and modern technology. At this point I would particularly like to thank once again the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which, through its systematic joint action, has been a key donor to the efforts of the Ministry of Health for the reform of the neuro-algal health sector in our country. Our common goal is that, in accordance with the Prime Minister's vision, Greece finally acquires health structures that meet high standards and high standards. Furthermore, the bill contains provisions that provide for innovations in strengthening public mental health services in our country. As I have said many times before, the ten-year economic crisis left the public mental health system incompletely staffed. At the Ministry of Health today we are making every effort to strengthen both intra-native and Community mental health structures. For this reason, Article 6 of the bill provides for the creation of 215 posts of specialist nurses for the specialty of mental health. More specifically, Article 58 of Law 4690/2020 defines the specialities of nursing science and two thousand two hundred fifty-five posts of specialist nurses were set up for the specialties of intensive and Community nursing. Article 6 of the bill stipulates that those who have not been covered will be redistributed to other nursing specialities and that two hundred and fifteen of them will be opened for the specialty of mental health. The creation of these two hundred and fifteen seats across the territory will be a significant reinforcement of the mental health units of the ESS, but most importantly, we are gradually entering a process of creating a body of nurses who will have specialized training to best meet the specific needs of psychiatric hospitals. The nursing core of education must be respect for human rights suffered by mental illness and best practices for its reintegration. Since we are investing in this specialisation, therefore, we provide in paragraph 4 of Article 6 that for every month, every qualified nurse will spend his specialty and no matter how special he is, he will receive 20 molecules that will be assigned to his overall molecules for the taking up of a permanent or subsidiary nurse whenever the relevant notice is issued. The specialization programme lasts eighteen months. The initiatives taken at the Ministry of Health on mental health are essential in support of a service sector, which, as I said in previous years, was obviously neglected. The advent of the pandemic, however, made it more urgent to immediately strengthen these services throughout the country. Indeed, from a number of scientific studies and from the daily experience of mental health professionals, it appears that pandemic is causing high levels of mental fatigue, but also feelings of loneliness and resignation to the general population both in adults and in our children, and increases their tendency to become dependent. That is why we are taking steps to tackle the development of a second parallel pandemic, as it is called, which insults the mental health of our fellow people. For example, within the pandemic, we are implementing a programme of psychological support for patients who are hospitalized by COVID or quarantine at home, for the members of their families and for the health staff of our hospitals. We operate on a 24-hour basis the free line of psychosocial support "10306" for the general population. We have adopted and implemented for the first time in Greece a new form of mental health units for Community units, early intervention units for psychosis, which are modern medical services, aiming at the early detection and treatment of psychotic disorders at their initial stage. We support our remote areas by creating mobile mental health units and already at the University General Hospital of Alexandroupolis, we have created a mobile unit for the provision of pediatric services in the wider area of the Prefecture of Evros. We develop a telepsy network throughout Greece in the form of an integrated digital external medicine with a prescription, advice and certificate version and started its pilot application at Kastelorizo Acrylic. We are planning similar units in islands and remote areas. Finally, in the design that we have submitted to both the Recovery Fund and the new ESRB we have anticipated and submitted for financing primary actions for mental health of EUR 374 million. Most of them concern the creation of new mental health units in the community, such as boarding, hosting and mobile units. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, and again thanking the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for its lasting assistance in improving the health services of the country, I would like to stress that the government will continue to make full use of private initiatives in the form of donations for the benefit of Greek citizens, quickly overcoming bureaucratic obstacles. So I invite you all to honour the great contribution of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to the Greek state, voting in favour of the relevant bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mendoni, Minister for Culture, has the floor to develop Amendment No 960 from 28-6-2021, 'Competition of the Ministry of Culture'. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Culture and Sports introduces today to a vote by the House of Greeks five provisions of law in an amendment to regulate the issues of the closure of any classic music orchestra “Camerata - Orchestra of the Friends of Music” because of the lack of administration of the Greek Music Educational Organization since April 2015, of the workers for whom there has been no concern until now, as well as the responsibilities of the legitimate representatives and members of the Board of Directors and to clarify issues relating to the general functioning of the Athens Concert Hall. Finally, it improves the institutional framework, which governs the functioning of the Director of the National Museum of Contemporary Art with a view to the smoother and more effective exercise of his duties, while abolishing the autonomous section with the name of the Centre of Contemporary Art. The purpose of Articles 1, 2 and 3, as I mentioned very briefly, is to resolve the outstandingity, caused by the lack of representation and administration of the Music Educational Organization of Greece since April 2015 and the interruption of every operation of the “Camerata - Orchestra of the Friends of Music” orchestra. In particular, the founding contract of this organization as a legal person governed by private law by the Ministry of Culture and Sport was drawn up between the Greek State and the Association of "Friends of Music" and ratified by Article 8 of Law 2273/1994. The aim of the organization was to plan and organize artistic and educational events of the "Camerata" orchestra in Greece and abroad. The Agency has effectively ceased to operate since the end of April 2015, when the then management board resigned. Although many efforts were made to restore things and despite the general recognition of the artistic presence of "Camerata", the substantial reopening of the Music Educational Organization of Greece was not possible, so that the organization was fully unable to fulfil the purpose for which it was set up. For this reason, a new agreement between the Contracting Parties has been decided on the solution of the organisation and the winding-up of the organisation. The relevant provisions shall be the subject of the Convention, signed on 15 June 2021 and ratified by this Law. Furthermore, it is recalled that the employees of the legal person of the musical educational organisation of Greece can be transferred to supervised private bodies of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the issues of responsibility of the liquidator of the legal representatives and members of the board of directors of the organisation. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 explicitly stipulates that the Athens Concert Hall, established by contract between public and private individuals who have transferred their property, is organised, operated and administered by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the conditions laid down in its founding contract, while the provisions of Law 3429/2005 other than Articles 2 and 3 apply to other matters. Paragraph 2 of Article 4 requires that a reference be made to the regulations to be made to the supervising Ministry of Culture and Sport of regular annual reports on its staff. Paragraph 3 of Article 4 stipulates that the issues of administrative and financial management and accounting of the Agency are to be defined by decision of the Management Board and that the obligations of the Agency are maintained in accordance with Article 4270/2014, with the exception of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Articles 65 and 66 of the same law. Article 5 improves the institutional framework, which governs the functioning of the Director of the National Museum of Contemporary Art with a view to the best and most effective exercise of his duties. In particular, it is renamed to an artistic director in order to render the artistic dimension of its role and to turn its term from four years to five years. Furthermore, the provision on the formal qualifications of the administrative director of the museum is amended in order to extend the applicant’s cycle for this post. Finally, with the aim of more efficiently performing the duties of the artistic director and in order to help the National Museum of Contemporary Art to respond in a modern way to international artistic events, a provision is introduced that allows the artistic director to be assisted by four artistic consultants. The same article abolishes the provisions on the self-evident section called the Centre of Contemporary Art, as it is a section, which has never worked since 1997 and there is no intention of the body to operate it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Culture and Sport took over today's legislative initiative because it had to deal with the years and accumulated problems, mainly concerning the Music Educational Organisation of Greece and given that its effective reopening since 2015 has never been possible, resulting in failure to fulfil its purpose. This situation created the need to make the formal solution of the Greek Music Educational Foundation and at the same time to take care of the employees who served in the organization on 1 January 2014. With regard to the provision concerning the EMFF, it is stressed that since its establishment with Law 2557/1997 and in fact until February 2020 it had not been fully and regularly operational with its permanent collection accessible to the public. In the context of the design of the full development of its activity and its start-up at its destination, the need for improvements in its 20-year and more institutional framework is born in order to enable the museum to fulfil its destination as a National Museum of Contemporary Art, according to internationally applicable today. The need relates, in particular, to the role and responsibilities of the artistic director and to the reward of persons who, according to international standards, are essential for the proper performance of his duties in order to carry out his work as best possible. In addition, the provision on the formal qualifications of the administrative and financial director is amended in such a way as to suffice one of his diplomas, a postgraduate degree, a doctorate, and to be subject to knowledge related to the responsibilities of his post. Finally, the Centre of Contemporary Art, the autonomous department, is abolished. In view of the above, I urge you, honourable Members, to vote in favour of the amendment by the Ministry of Culture and Sport as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u25	Madam Minister, please do not go because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman for your amendment needs to be clarified. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, a simple comment. I believe that you are bringing in a set of important provisions concerning supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture, without any room for serious consultation and preparation, with an amendment tabled last night. Please, really. It can't be that way of continuing to legislate. These are important issues relating to the legal immunity of administrative boards, loose ends to workers, and so on. These need the possibility of serious parliamentary preparation. We're really calling for you to get them back and bring them with a bill from the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u27	Madam Minister, would you like to give some clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u28	No, I would just like to say that it is precisely because they are serious issues which are now extremely urgent, which is why they are tabled in the form of an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u30	He can't call it the Minister in this House. An important amendment is coming. Will that pass, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u31	The parliamentary representative asked for explanations. We'll see what the Minister responsible will do in the end. Mrs Evangelia Lykoulis has the floor. Immediately after that, Mr Kelles will be speaking, and immediately after that, the Deputy Minister, Mr Kefaloyannis, will speak about arrangements for his ministry's amendment. I say this to organise the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, then, freedom pass. What a nice and cozy way to say the bribery otherwise. Another phenomenal idea of your government. First you fight them and then you bill them. A controversial trick. You know it's controversial, too, because the party that's done on social media, with these inspired new kids who found these things that they wrote on Facebook and Instagram, is not getting together! And while the government could cause depression, to us at least it is a sign of writing about what your decision can cause, how sad and how much laugh and how much fun, but at the same time what a confession of failure is behind it. Of course you can't understand it, but the mirrors for the natives you share them with who? Who are you addressing, Minister? Are you addressing the new generation, which is currently seeing what? In the new generation that sees unemployment standing up like a wall that can't get over it. A generation he studied without believing that he will soon work on academic objects. A generation that is expected to stay even now and for many years in her home. A generation that sees with chalice the companionship, the constant relationship and the family. And I mention this because so many crocodile tears have been poured into this Chamber and this step on the most famous demographic problem. And, of course, an elementary safeguard could prevent the new generation from all these comments on the Internet, perhaps prevent them from being vaccinated. But do you see such solutions? Unfortunately, no. Just a buy-out. And you will be kind enough to allow me to tell you that I have been shaken by the raw way in which you have done this. I mean, it was also unconscious. Not only that, but one more thing that I want to tell you today, and especially that is why I came to talk. I came to tell you I have two kids in this age group. And I came to tell you, then, that you want to buy my children to be vaccinated. Are you laughing? Politics is education. Politics trains people and according to Plato is the highest way of educating a society and citizens. So what do you want to tell us? That in order to drive our children into better choices, we have to give them money? Do we have to buy them? Is that what you're telling us? Is that what you're selling? Do you have this education? Do you give this education? Well, we don't allow you, not as politicians, but as parents, as members of society. As citizens, we do not allow you to do so. And of course what I want to say to you is that within your government's curfew and within what is happening, the social chaos that you have not understood, because - you know - the person concerned always learns it last and rather from the polls, but within this chuckle there is another consequence that you cannot feel, that there are very great opportunities for collective movement to encourage young people to be vaccinated, as the Mayor of New York did, which made small social contracts with the bodies and collectives. And what did he want to do? Through bodies and collective bodies to encourage their members and citizens by giving sponsorships and donations to unions and organisations. But where would you think that? That's what he wants ideology. He wants ideas. He wants you to understand, understand, there's an elementary DNA. Or how do you know? And in addition, there's another great damage within you. In Larissa the day before yesterday I visited this excellent Pulmonary Clinic at the University Hospital of Larissa, where a group of inspired doctors, headed by Kostas Gurgulani, our professor, who is an acquisition for science and possession and for Thessaly, operate a post - COVID medicine and go there all people who have been sick and rescued by the virus, but have consequences for their health. So why don't you project it? Why are you giving 150 euros and not projecting these people's work to show our children, young children, to all the children who do not want to be vaccinated, what consequences can he have, who has been sick of COVID? Why do you not show this example? That's real education. That's politics. That produces ethos. This links politics to society. But how do you think about that? And of course, ladies and gentlemen, what we unfortunately understand once again is that the whole health system is based on clay feet. Again patches, patches, no recruitments, no heavy and unhealthy. You haven't had a chance to do anything for two years now of pandemic. They're masturbating, they're wintering citizens and you there, in your world. You're turning around and saying you're going to reconstruct the ESS. With what? In what way? Tiny way? You say you'll better manage donation funds. How? We have proposed a permanent and stable donation management mechanism, which is always welcome, such as the bill we are debating today. Half and abundant and this mechanism, which your Change Movement suggested. After all, this is not all by chance because just February before the pandemic, that is, days ago, the dear Minister who visited the University Hospital of Larissa raised storms after winds, because he spoke about the privatisation of hospitals and why not in hospitals with ambiguous content partnerships, etc. So no one can walk. The snake from the hole pulled it off the NSA. We've been through this. Our ESS, the PASOK ER, a great reform and conquest, which you have not only supported, but also the keyhole, look at how you will be given the opportunity to come back to two years ago and see how you will privatise public health, because this is your final purpose. But I'll tell you this. You enjoy now - and sit on your laurels, it's true - a popularity. But popularity is analogous to trust and trust with democracy. When citizens' confidence in the face of the government is lost, then the fall, the sharp fall, begins. And unfortunately you've shown examples of writing that the public's trust is not especially in matters of health and that the sweater slowly starts to fade. Watch out. It's coming, just like everything comes into history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor from New Democracy, and then Mr Kefaliannis, the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, will develop the amendment. Come on, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I did not intend to start this way, but after what I heard from Mrs Liikanouli, because Larissa, I have two words to say, I cannot leave it like that. Mrs. Ligolis, I'm glad you're proud of Larissa University Hospital. And this from this government, the RU and the university hospital, is funded by them. And the Post - COVID, which is now operating by this government, is being financed. I just happened to be present. I think you didn't address the luckiest man. Because I chose long before you, Mrs. Liikoulis, and before you felt proud of the Larissa University Hospital, to be treated as the first patient of COVID in Thessaly, with unlimited confidence in doctors. And you see the result: I'm better than before. Therefore, with regard to confidence in the health system, the national is not speaking here and, above all, it cannot be a charge for the Government of New Democracy. He supported it, supported it and today's bill on the support of this system is. It is financing this system. Now, for your children who are saying that they feel like they're buying 150 euros, I can't believe your children do it and they told you, because I know them and they're excellent children I'm going to tell you, but my children told me that, by addressing me, I would put a means to be vaccinated earlier, without the 150th, Mrs. Lykoule. That's our difference to understand why we're where we are. And I didn't understand: did you say "stop the sweater"? Which sweater do you see piercing? It's barely getting a zirconium. The percentages are rising, Mrs. Liikoli, in the New Democracy. I'm coming to the bill. Our country is standing, ladies and gentlemen, decisively against the pandemic, recording positive results, both in health and economic terms. The psychology of society and the market is constantly improving, as the vaccination of the population is progressing successfully and economic activity is restored rapidly. The Greek Government is constantly taking appropriate measures to deal with the health crisis, strengthening the ESS and primary health care and ensuring better provision of health services to citizens. This is also noted by this bill today. However, it is really a question of wondering that one and a half years after this unprecedented test, to which the whole planet has entered and is not a Greek originality, and that Greece has become a model to be imitated and the citizens support the work of the Mitsotakis Government by a large majority, opposition colleagues are still conducting a micro-party policy. They disagree on issues of common sense. You have made a reservation to the committees, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and you said that all these provisions should not come to a bill. This permanent and lasting, supposedly opposition, when, in fact, it does not benefit you, I do not understand it. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - is the former Minister, Mr Xanthos - because you ruled in 2015-2019, what includes the first part of the bill? Appointment of an amendment to the contract concluded between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation in 2018 to upgrade the health sector. This is a donation that you have accepted and very well accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u35	That is why we are going to vote on this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u36	I know, Mr. Xanthi. You're a reasonable man. I would like you to tell me, however, where you disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u37	To the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u38	Good. Let's go down. In this context, therefore, additional projects on the part of the Foundation are now being voted on in the so-called Health Initiative. The new General Hospital of Komotini with a magnetic tomograph, with a breast part, with a cardiovascular system, is supported, creating two surgical rooms and provisions for the treatment exercise. The contribution of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to meeting needs in the critical area of mental health for children and adolescents is promoted and the quality of the care provided throughout the country is upgraded. Financing is provided for the modernisation and ensuring the necessary equipment at the ‘Agia Sophia’ Children’s Hospital for the housing and operation of the national reference centre for the mental health of children and adolescents. It is planned to finance the study, construction and equipment of two new buildings at Attica University Hospital in order to serve the needs of inventors. Do you disagree? I don't think so. There's no one to argue with. Therefore, I do not understand the reservations. Let's go down. Do you disagree with the distribution of the positions of qualified nurses in the emergency and intensive nursing and nursing mental health specialists, or do you disagree with the staffing of the OSH mental health structures by qualified personnel? You don't argue there either, I'm sure. The bill below deals with areas such as increasing the age limit by two years in assisted reproduction - neither there is disagreement - the framework for the establishment and operation of primary health care bodies by public institutions and the establishment of an electronic health service file, which will help to improve the exercise of public health policies and extend the validity of exceptional arrangements to combat pandemic. I would particularly like to stress that the following is being extended until 30-9-2021: The health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups - we first implemented it, we are continuing it. The possibility of moving medical care personnel. The possibility of binding spaces to cover emergencies due to the pandemic. The possibility of ordering mobile, consumable and non-disposable goods to combat the dispersion of the coronary. The provision of individual facilities for private hospitals, health facilities, rehabilitation centres and private health service providers to the public. The ability to convert beds to MRLs and to ICUs. I don't think there's any objection to all of this. The validity of contracts between EEA and its providers during the period of dissemination of the koruna. The term of office of the members and alternate members of the administrative and supervisory boards of the supplying pharmaceutical cooperatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. Thank you. The term of office of the Board of Directors of the Pan-Hellenic Physical therapists is also extended, as is the programme for the national vaccination campaign and the obligation to carry out a PCR test to those responsible for classification in the Armed Forces. Physicians who complete within the year are allowed to remain until the end of the year in the sixty-seventh year of their age. At the same time, important regulations are being introduced for the EEA, the medical staff of the Ministry of Health and the research guidance of health structures. With regard to the EEA, the competences of the commander and the internal audit unit and the procedures for prescribing shall be redefined. Rebate and clawback debts are set to health providers up to a hundred and twenty instalments. As far as medical staff are concerned, injustices are restored to him for the benefit of the health system. Physicians of specialists who hold organic posts or even personalities in health centres may be transferred to corresponding positions of the ERC, to the same OSH or to another OSH. The research orientation of health structures is established. The terms and procedures for non-interventional clinical studies with drugs, etc. are set out. In addition, provisions relating to extensions of cleanliness, disinfection and protection of civil protection and education ministries have been incorporated in this legislation. And that's where I'm sure you're totally in agreement. Themes of the Ministry of Justice, which are designed to avoid co-existence in the chambers and secretaries of the courts, are regulated, while the regular general meetings of agricultural cooperatives are to be held until 31 October, since, because of the pandemic, these assemblies cannot be held. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill contributing to the upgrading of public health, the maintenance of the pandemic wall and the resolution of operational issues arising from the health crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u39	Please finish, Mr. Comrade. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u40	I'm closing, Mr. President. Thank you. Of course, we are voting in favour of this, with the expectation that restrictive measures need not be taken again and hopefully that all citizens will shield our country against the mutations, ensuring that they are protected by vaccination. Public health protection is in the hands of all of us, and it is a prerequisite to fuel recovery and achieve growth, both strong and sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. The Minister, Mr. Kefaliannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u43	Yes, to listen to what the staff are, because there is no abusive behavior. Unless something altered from the contents of your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u44	That's right. I would like to make one clarification, Mr President. My colleague referred three times to my face, as he has a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u45	With love.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u46	Sure. With a lot of love, I found out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u47	He was the first of passions. He's right to say more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u48	He called my children, well kids, first of all, and that's why I have to thank him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u49	Besides, you work harmoniously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u50	Absolutely. He's been linking us to a relationship for years. But to clarify in my speech, my children are fine, as you say, unlike you said, with your own children, who, in order to be vaccinated, tried to find ways to be vaccinated earlier. So my children are being vaccinated too, but they never looked to find ways to be vaccinated earlier. That is the one I want to clarify about history, because it is a matter of perception and ideology. The second thing I would like to say, Mr President, is that the presentation and promotion of the Post-COVID of the University Hospital of Thessaly is that of the presentation and promotion of medicine at Thessaly. I have not talked about advertising or about the government or what it does about it. I said that a platform could be interconnected with the Post - COVID - so that every young child could see what the results and side effects of the disease are. That's not what happened. Finally, and also for restoring the truth, because perhaps the fellow Member is not well aware of this, you should be aware that because both the Professor and the entire scientific team, the Post-COVID doctorate was created at the initiative of the pulmonary clinic and not by funding from anyone at all, nor by your Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would like 30 seconds for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u52	Here you go, Mr. Kelles. I think that clarification is necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u53	It is not a question of confrontation, just to clarify that when I say that my children told me to find a way to be vaccinated earlier, it is a form of speech. They were vaccinated in the first dose and today they make the second dose. And secondly, I know the Professor, Mr. Wargulani, we happen to be classmates, and I love him particularly, although he's a Voliotis, Mrs. Liikali. I would like to say to you, however, that the Post-COVID medicine in the pulmonary clinic is part of the ESS and funding by the relevant ministries, namely at this time of this government. And, of course, we should warmly congratulate them on their initiative, but their work and work has been well known for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr Kefaloyannis, Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, has the floor to develop Amendment 905 and the issues from Amendment 961.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked to take the floor to support an amendment from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and to prevent a well-measurable criticism and some objections from the point of view of Anti-Population. I will agree that it is not the best legislative practice, but because many of you - I am referring to the opposition - have also taken on government tasks and you know that many times it is the only way to deal with critical issues that need to be addressed immediately. The present amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport introduces arrangements to address, as I have said, critical issues of the Ministry's surveillance bodies. In particular, the provision of Article 1 deals with the question of repayment of the interest on loans from the European Investment Bank of the "ATTIF S.A." and the guarantees of the Greek State. To date, the payments of the above costs were made from the resources of the "ATIO MERO S.A.", i.e. from the amounts of loans, with the result that a large accounting deficit exists in the company. This expenditure is recognised as being structurally more and more legitimate than the Greek State recognises the obligation to finance the relevant expenditure from the Public Investment Programme, a procedure which is spread over the next few years for budgetary discipline. I am referring to expenditure, which has been almost 20 years ago. Articles 2 to 5 regulate "ERGOSE S.A." licensing issues and raise the institutional framework so that railway projects are accelerated in their implementation. In particular, Article 2 regulates, for the first time, the issue of building permits for building works. Article 3 regulates issues of forced expropriation. While provision is introduced in Article 4 for railway projects to be subject to the procedure laid down in Article 7A of the Code of Conduct. Finally, Article 5 sets out the conditions for the implementation of railway projects within forest areas with full respect for environmental and forestry legislation. Article 6 provides for the conditions and conditions for the renewal of the water supply and sewerage service contract awarded to the EEAS S.A. in 1999 for a 20-year period which has already expired. The proposed provision provides the necessary authorisation to the co-legislative Ministers to determine the terms and conditions of the new Convention by complying with all the provisions of Union and environmental legislation for the management of a public good such as water. Furthermore, the same provision provides for the settlement of the financial outstandings between the Greek State and the “EKDAP S.A.”, which since 2013 has ceased to pay any amount to the Greek State for the water supplied, while at the same time making the resale profit. In any case, this provision ensures both the rights of the public and the stability of the budgets for the citizens of Attica without any increase and charges. Article 7 allows Athens and Thessaloniki watering and sewerage bodies to immediately remove damage and damage to their network and to put an end to the delays resulting from time-consuming procedures for the execution of emergency small-scale operations by EYDAP and EYDAT due to authorisations by various operators with the obligation to fully restore the area of small projects carried out. Finally, the proposed amendment renews fixed-term work contracts of officials who manage the addresses for the recovery of natural disasters of central Greece, Halkidiki, Chania, East and West Attica for a period of 12 months. The aim is to continue and complete the actions by the State in response to natural disasters affected, and it should be noted that these officials have already gained valuable experience in carrying out both persuasively and in issuing housing repair and approval operations to restore the affected buildings, which makes them necessary for the completion of the work of the Ministry's Directorate-General responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister. Mr Igoumenides Nikolaos will now be given the floor by SYRIZA and immediately by the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Heitas. It is true that the Parliamentary Representatives will be able to request the floor by two Members speaking on the list. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today and a first issue is the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. I will not dwell on the details of the donation, but I think it is worth keeping two - three elements from this donation. First in 2017-2018 we had a planning by the SYRIZA government to strengthen the public health system, to strengthen the National Health System. Based on this design, the initial desire of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to strengthen with 200 million a specific hospital joined these very needs of the ESS. He came closer to these needs. He came and participated in the implementation of a support plan for the National Health System. The works created are the property of the Greek State. The operation of those manufactured without any financial benefit to the donor, in this case for the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. What does this donation have to do with public-private partnerships, which are mentioned in the New Democracy programme and which actually want to play a key role in the national health system to give them to private individuals? Absolutely nothing. In addition to the donation, the bill that came today also deals with some issues relating to the treatment of pandemic. The fact is that there is a move, I would say, by the government that it does what it can, does what it needs to do, that it is not the fault that the pandemic has received it, and in any case an attempt is being made to ensure the tolerance of the Greek society. Let's see, is the New Democracy Government doing everything in its power to deal with the pandemic? Controlling the spread in the community requires extensive checks, extensive storage and targeted measures. Instead, the government did limited checks and horizontal general measures with the well-known devastating effect on the Greek economy. This is not the case in the case of the ampoule, it is not entirely clear what the flood has brought, and in front of us all, is what we are seeing today. Luceto here, top, business that doesn't open, business at despair and so on. Instead of prescribing and therefore compensation by the EEAS for molecular and rapid test, the Government proceeded to this global originality of reduced self-tests. So instead of having an upgraded epidemiological surveillance and taking responsibility for the state, the government's responsibility, we had an attempt to shift to personal responsibility. A lot could also be said about organised and planned involvement of primary health care in the treatment of pandemic, in the treatment of 80% of the incidents that were not needed and do not need a hospital. Instead, the government saw the transfer of personnel from primary care units to hospitals without a plan for the action of primary care units, without the establishment of new medical facilities, etc. Similarly, instead of strengthening the hospitals, we had their so-called codification, compelling function, as if morbidity were a matter of political decisions. The Government has decided and ordered that there are no diseases other than COVID. They closed up coronary units like the infarctions disappeared from Greece. In any case, with this compression in the operation of hospitals, I do not know if you have a picture of where the O.R. lists go, how the chronic suffering, etc. Instead of permanent reinforcement of the system with staff, you prefer the aid with additional staff go through the brothel. Let us not discuss the fact that Greece falls short of the European average expenditure. Not all of this can be done without money. And, indeed, in a Greece that comes out of an economic crisis, expenditure must be even more, it needs even greater. I only have one question and I expect your answer, Minister: from the Development Fund's money how much is available for health? Vaccines: Another powder that tries to rise with a number of numbers that have no value. The number of people who closed an appointment today, announced this degrading 150, the number of those who made an appointment yesterday, the number of the last week's vaccinations and various numbers that have no value. Immunity is supposed to have the second vaccination. How many are the vaccinations fully in the country? 28.3% of the population, two million eight hundred and fifty thousand people. That's the point. Leave the rest of the numbers. So, let's see the results from all this pandemic management: Greece, on the 31st internationally, in the 6th place in the European Union, at a mortality rate, the same position as Italy, where the communication bought by you, paid by you, was the first picture that the entire Greek public was afflicted by the coronary attack. Greece is in a worse position than India that we saw its images too recently. And beyond the number of vaccinations, another subject comes in. It is known that the immune response is different from a person in person. This explains why they have a different number of antibodies the people who were ill and it is not certain what number of antibodies the people who were vaccinated have. Will there be planning of the control of immunity with antibodies or will it remain personal responsibility again? Anyway, to close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, a lot could be said. The substance, however, is one: at the heart, at the core of the proposals of the Right, the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis is the marketing of health and the transfer of a vital public sector space to the private sector. Even home vaccination for those who can't reach a vaccination centre, you're giving it to private individuals on a fee rather than co-operating primary health care and "Help at Home". At the heart of the Left's proposal, the democratic party, the progressive party is to strengthen the public health system, a system, that is to say, that will achieve universal coverage, ensure unnecessarily access, provide a high level of health services. The treatment of the pandemic has shown, with regard to the right-wing logic, deafening silence, the deafening absence of the private sector and, if you like, confirmed the view of the democratic party on the public health system. That is why these proposals will be at the core of the left's positions and the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. We don't get you anywhere. You stay alone, Mr. Undersecretary, and you'll hear it now. The day didn't get right with you today. I'm telling you about the government. We don't get you anywhere. You're every day and a surprise. Incredible government! Every day you get over yourself. We have known him so far as Moses, now rather he has turned it into a god, because only a god or someone who starts acting like a god decides who Greek will live properly and who will not. There's no one else to do that. It is incomprehensible for the Greek Prime Minister to put a cost on people's lives. It is incomprehensible that the Greek Prime Minister put a fare in people's lives and divide the Greeks - the Greeks! - Two counts! Another world patent and originality of the New Democracy and the Government! Only you could make state law - Minister, welcome - bribery. Unbelievable! The bribery makes it a law of the state. Brib the young. Don't you understand that this is a takeover, a clear takeover, it's a exploitation, it's a violation of the free choice, it's a smuggling? He says 150 euros from eighteen to twenty-five. That's how much I give you, how much do you want? Let's negotiate this. Put another thirty on it. I want 500. You'll give it to me. What are you doing? You were suddenly caught by the pain for young people and the Prime Minister came out undisturbed yesterday and said, "These children who so hardened, we have to compensate for them." You're so hypocritical. You just think you're addressing a society that doesn't have any perception. You don't know you've been hammered out there. You underestimate us all out there. So if you were really interested in children from eighteen to twenty-five, you wouldn't have allowed decades to turn our youth's back on the political system that you, this monster, have devastated. Be interested in the youth all of a sudden and give 150 euros! You wouldn't let her leave the country - she's leaving even now - the youth that you so much care about! And you know why they left the country? They left this country because it stinks inexperience! Unfortunately for them, because they are finishing their studies and they have no place to go and what to do. It's a country full of rushphetti, it's a country she had learned in remula. This is the country. And now you're buying them 150 euros. Don't you buy a drink? Give an order and say the second drink won by the government, guys. It's over, second, third drink's on the house. Take a vaccine, I'll buy you. Well, are these things going on? Is this a serious policy to deal with such a difficult situation as this from the coronary? Give them a job. Give them a job, not prepaid health cards. Our young people want jobs. Give them a restand not a split. Rehabilitation and not split! Give them dignity. Our children - because most of us have children at that age - want dignity, they don't want pocket money. What you are doing is also squandering public money. They're telling us today your media, Minister - but of course why you listen, you make your decisions, you make your decisions, 'the month has 9', another two years of government will be, as if you were here to listen to the opposition, you don't care - that eighteen thousand Greeks will be vaccinated. How sure you are that - someone or no one, I wish anyone! - Aren't any of them going to get hurt? Tell me! For 150 euros? And really, you're political liars, in that this card is not a card of freedom, it's not a reward. That's where the lie is. 150 is money. It's normal money. It's a breeze. What's it called, son, folk? Flavour! And we hope in the Greek Solution - because we trust these children, we trust our children, in this youth out there - that tomorrow's society will not be a tele-directed society that you want them, nor a society of purchased, but will be a society with free thought and serious decisions. You're a government of mutation. You're the government of mutation normally! I've been listening to the measures by Mr. Gerapetritis and Mr.Adoni Georgiadis, and I'm confused: 75%, 25%, 15%, full pension, here the vaccinated, there the invaders, with paper, with chips, with bracelets, with stamps, with papers, you'll be released, drinking, with one another. I'm confused! What are you going to do? Are you now turning the shoppers and restaurants into bouncers, bracelets and cops? Is it possible to do such things? What's this? Where have you seen it written to buy the Greeks 150 euros and turn restaurants into a government? So, they're gonna decide? There's no legislation? Isn't there a constitution? Isn't there a favoured state? Is there nothing? Whatever the shopkeeper wants? Whatever he decides at that time? And because I hear everyone here saying 'Say how many vaccinated people are, how many are they vaccinated people', so we are here today addressing everyone here in Parliament and since that is how you wish, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to take out the vaccination certificate and show it which of you three hundred and of us have done the vaccine! You all agree here! Don't you all agree with the mandatoryity of the vaccine? We see you're going hand in hand with all this. So let's go get these papers. So how do you oblige us to take out what you meant - and we do well - in public, to get out and get out here all three hundred - is the Greek solution proposal - the vaccination certificate for all, which of the three hundred have done the vaccine! Let's all see, which one of the hundred fifty eight have made the vaccine and then go and convince people to carry out vaccines! Take it off! The Greek solution is causing you! Now get the vaccination certificates out of publicity and the three hundred to see! Instead of joining the world, instead of indulging above this world, who has gone crazy and wants to hear a view from a serious government, instead of going from a village to a place without speaking to the world, to inform them, to give them the data, for the good of them, "do it - do it", see, explain them, instead of communicating this issue, you split them up and terrorize them from the first day until now. And you continue and resort to a culture of social automation really, with anti-democratic measures and all this time, when the economy collapses, while the market is experiencing an incredible unprecedented crisis, unless you don't see them. If you live in Luxembourg, it's your problem. However, the Greeks' problem is that they live in Greece and live in a poor country with closed shops, while because of the horizontal measures for a year and a half, you have destroyed everything and led the country to a tsunami of padlocks and you want to now turn the professional shoppers into porters. You are a government that will find this before you and politically you will pay it very dearly. All this nonsense about the policies you are making and the decisions you will pay them very expensive politically. A government that resorts to division, a government that resorts to social automation, brings social anomaly! Don't you understand? It is a dangerous government of such a government. There's no doubt! It is a government that divides the Greek family, the Greek society, divides the Greeks into vaccinated and non-smoked. Is that how you're gonna convince them? That cheap? Is that right? ‘Take EUR 150?’. "Wouldn't you be inoculated? You're weird, you're crazy, you're sprayed!" You can't do that. We're sorry to see you, really. Can I tell you one more thing? The fan movement is beginning to be in front of you. The Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European People's Party, the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, the Group of the European Radical Alliance and the Group of the European Radical Alliance, the Group of the - because Olympiacos - says - announced that only the vaccinated ones will be on the stadium, "THYRA 7" so - not the "Barbuccala door" - of Olympiacos came up with a statement that no matter what you do, you won't be able to wake up Nazi instincts to the Greeks. If you have them hidden inside or imposed them on you by your German employers, they are in your own problem. We're across the street. Don't think that because you made a decision, Mr. Gerapetritis, Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, told the Prime Minister 150 euros, problems were solved! Society is boiling out, and the more you ignore it, the more the lid is ready to explode. About the vaccine, we have said it from the first moment and tens of times the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, has been vindicated. What did we say? That we're in favour of freedom. Each one chooses what he wants to do. No ban, no imposition, no mandatory. Everyone is responsible for himself and must choose, weigh the data, his health, his condition, his surroundings, be informed by his doctors and do what he wants. Nothing more. What else did we say? We said from the outset that the vaccine, in particular, a conditional, transiently licensed and not controlled, is not panacea. Proof? You see developments in Israel. The country was an example of vaccination and vaccination and in time of vaccination and in quantity. What happened in Israel? What happened in Great Britain? There's the mutation, there's the cases in the vertical and the vaccinated and the unvaccinated. There's the cases! Citizens are exposed to this mutation and are hospitalized and vaccinated and non-vaccinated are hospitalized. After a year and a half, the government has done nothing in the direction of strengthening primary health. Nothing at all! The medicine? The medicine! How long has the President of Greek Solution been calling it again? The medicine, guys! The medicine! Where are the monoclonals? Where are the T-lymph cells? Where are the monoclonals? Answer the Greeks who have lost their own people where the monoclonals are! Where is he? Where are the monoclonals? And we hear other things that will come here too! We were really disappointed with what Mr Anastasiades said in Cyprus. Listen! The measure - it says - with the digital bracelet to limit the invasive ones. Come on, Christ and Holy shit! Let's take off the clock and the compostes so we can keep room. If you're going to put us in a bracelet and tell us. Are you going to put on Greek bracelets? Is that what you're gonna do? Is that Mr. Anastasiades' premiere? Is this the premier in Cyprus by Mr. Anastasiades? The bracelet? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. But instead of us here in Greece and in our sister Cyprus to deal with the fiascos that Erdogan and the Turks are setting up in Varchosia every day, Anastasiades is involved in the bracelets! Is Cyprus still a long way? Is Famagusta away yet? Is the Aegean closer? Where's memorandum? We have dialogue! With the terrorist fascist, we Greeks have dialogue, otherwise! It has closed half the Aegean - and more - with NAVTEX, throwing parties in Varosia, but we're gentleman, Swiss, and we're having a dialogue! That's great! Move, move, move! And I shall end, Mr President, so that I do not abuse your kindness - with an amendment. It is the Education Ministry's amendment. I'll go to the first verse of Article 4. He says, among other things, "Four representatives of Muslims, who legally live in Attica with their alternates appointed by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs... members of Muslim communities of the legal organisation". You do not specify whether they will be Greek or not. You don't clarify it. This amendment and for the mosque you are voting on today, probably from what I have understood, all parties except the Greek Solution, of course. You're voting today. Here's a little something. Today's Tuesday. Maybe Wednesday or Thursday, or six days, nothing has happened, Mr. Brutsi. But in ten years from now you will have regretted this very bitterly what you are doing today. In ten years' time from now we will all have regretted this very bitterly what you are voting on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u62	Immediately afterwards, because the State Secretary must be able to catch up with the plane. Before I give Mr Yoyakas the floor, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Culture, Mr. Phytomanolakis, to develop issues from Amendment 961. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not abuse your time, ladies and gentlemen. This is an amendment which regulates a number of issues of artistic education. As you know, all the educational processes in the country, including artistic education, which is under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, have been directly and drastically influenced by the pandemic. For too many months artistic education has ceased with this amendment, basically what we wanted to do is to be able to regulate issues relating to the start and end of the teaching year in order to normalise the situation this year and next year. What we are therefore saying is that, due to the suspension of activities of the structures of artistic education and the prohibition of lifelong learning, it is imperative to regulate the issues relating to the end of the current school and teaching year and the beginning of the following year, by conducting all kinds of examinations - promotional, classifying, introductory, etc. - as well as the regulation of issues relating to student registration in order to ensure the smooth completion of the teaching year 2020-2021 and the start of the following year. Therefore, Article 5, which calls 'the adoption of measures after the reopening of the structures of artistic education', regulates precisely these matters by a joint decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport and the co-responsible Minister on a case-by-case basis or by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport only on these issues. That is the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Is there any clarification on the amendment by the main rapporteurs? Oh, no. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Ploris will speak from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u66	You will speak before Mr. Plearis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, perhaps you did not understand why I wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u68	Excuse me. Don't you want to intervene? No speech, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I would like to make a speech, less than a minute, about what has been said just before a parliamentary step. I have asked for the floor for this precisely because I believe that the time we are asking for the floor is of its value.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u70	All right, the Minister was long hours ago and he was in a hurry. We have delayed him too much because of the interventions made. I'd give you the floor now. Because Mr. Yoyakas has to keep the commuting to go, I'm giving him the floor. Do you want me to give you the floor now or in seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I shall take the floor now because I think it is important to say what I am going to say, in the sense of my own perception and of the political responsibility I have in the matter. I speak and stand not as a parliamentary representative, but as a Member of the Greek Parliament. Parliamentary representatives and MPs can criticise and be placed at all levels of the House, and that is the democratic right, and so we have learned to operate this House and that is our democracy. However, I believe that we must be particularly careful at times and times when the country is facing - like the world community - with unprecedented phenomena. The issue of pandemic is something that concerns the whole world and Greece. It is something unprecedented, ladies and gentlemen. The words of Mr Heta, addressing a Step by a House that “Who ensures that the eighteen thousand young people...”, reading that within a few minutes they have declared interest in being vaccinated, are not going to happen?” is judged by me as extremely dangerous. I'm not saying he's a bad option on Mr. Heta's side. I consider it dangerous, however, in this sense: that we have all agreed in this Chamber - but if anyone disagrees, if anyone objects, and say so - that there is no other way of dealing with the pandemic, rather than vaccination, whether it is of great age or of middle age or of young people. Messages that distort this, phrases that distort this message are dangerous. Our young people, who are the smallest in the number of vaccination teams, need to be vaccinated. It is not a political one, it is not a party, it is a national issue. That is why I draw attention to those who are placed with the same sensitivity to their position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u72	They're positioned, Mr. Brutsi. Everyone says what they think and what the world judges. They've cleared things up. That is what the Greek people have said. What can we do? Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u73	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first as a doctor who has served the health sector for the past twenty-five years, and then as a Member I think it is worth listening to a few words and from this Step to the contribution of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to our public health system. A programme entitled ‘Health Initiative’ totalling about EUR 440 million for investments in infrastructure and health services, as well as for the support of medical and nursing staff, which gives the battle to the front line. The delivery of state-of-the-art airspace facilities to strengthen EKAB's aerospace facilities, the creation of new pilot hospitals in Komotini, Thessaloniki and Sparta, the supply of equipment to public hospitals and universities is only some of the important interventions of this initiative. It is a contribution which, ladies and gentlemen, should be mentioned and recalled in the way it deserves. The amendment to the donation contract that is currently being ratified is part of a five-year scientific programme, amounting to EUR 12 million, which will be transferred from abroad to top know-how on mental health issues for children and adolescents. Educational programs for strengthening child mental health professionals, setting up a reference centre for child mental health, supporting children and families with demanding mental health needs, and new digital tools and telepsy instruments are the axes of this very important programme. It is interesting that teenagers and young people are among the most vulnerable to the occurrence of post-traumatic stress symptoms, as a survey of the Mediterranean University "Research to record the psychosocial consequences of lockdown" in Greek society showed. That is why health policies are also being proposed in research to give immediate priority to their strengthening, as are the other groups of populations who suffer disproportionately from this great health crisis. In this direction, i.e. improving mental health care, it intends - to go to the second part of the bill - and to provide for the maintenance of the mental health structures of the ESS, with nurses serving mental health structures and having appropriate education and expertise. In this first chapter of the second section, some colleagues in the Reflection Group have criticised the additional increase in the age limit, up to which in vitro fertilisation from fifty to fifty two years is permitted. I know from the juncture that imposed it, it is true that with this change the racial regulatory framework in force in our country is becoming even more attractive compared to what is in force in the European Union. More generally, with the second part of the bill, the whole framework of arrangements for dealing with COVID -19 is maintained for proper management of cases and for limiting the spread of the virus, but also for the successful continuation of the "ELDRERIA" programme to prevent a fourth wave of pandemic, which would be a serious setback for our country as well. Because, as the spread of the Delta mutation shows, the danger has not passed internationally. We are still in an emergency situation that requires emergency solutions as such. The message sent by these settings is that we remain alert. Unfortunately, in this great, collective, national effort to preserve the most valuable good called "health" some found room for bad criticism. They talked about the refluxes of experts on the use of a specific vaccine, noticing that this is the very essence of scientific knowledge, opportuneness. We are dealing with a dynamic situation with scientific data, research findings, external conditions to change, affecting and questioning that until yesterday it seemed more likely or generally acceptable. So let us not use experts as pawns for a political game which is exactly why it is becoming a micro-political one. Some also talked about failure or limited success of the national vaccination programme. But here, the reality does not agree, because the figures say that our country is in the eighth best place in the European Union at a rate of vaccination as measured in doses per 100 inhabitants, that it is within the first five European Union countries in a percentage of the population that has completed the vaccination, while our fellow citizens who have been vaccinated touch the three million seven hundred thousand. Greece is in the second best position in the European Union in a total number of cases per million inhabitants and 46% below the European Union average. That is what the figures say, ladies and gentlemen, and it is really ironic that they should be said by one party, the leader of which has sometimes questioned the vaccinations of hope for a vaccine that does not exist, sometimes terming the goal of twenty-five thousand vaccinations a day and sometimes deporting approved and effective vaccines that are supposedly torn apart. So let us not wrong all this great effort for the sake of uncertain and temporary impressions and continue to support it, so that we do not find ourselves in the difficult position of the last few months where strengths and forces of patients, workers, households and businesses have been tested. We owe it to those who have been lost in battle with the coronary, but also to all those who are giving the battle every day to get out of this adventure an hour before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr Yoyakas, and respect for the time. Mr. Thanasis Plearis from New Democracy has the floor and then Mr. George Bored by SYRIZA will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. It is important that the bill, which comes, concerning the donation, which is being given, and that an effort be made to strengthen the public health system. There are also a number of provisions which in fact have to do with most of the provisions that already exist for as long as the pandemic lasts. Of course there are many other arrangements that have to do with clawback so much for private providers that the possibility of joining in a hundred and twenty doses and the 2020 clawback precisely because they too were affected and took part in and part of the management of the pandemic. Here is an unjust criticism made and heard by SYRIZA Members. That's not true. It was the public sector that supported the whole pandemic management, but there was private sector assistance, because for a long time the public system had been mainly a coronary management system and wherever it could help and assist the private sector. In fact, we must not forget that private clinics have given a series of beds either for non-COVID incidents - and to relieve the public system to have the COVID management incidents - or directly COVID incidents. Both private clinics and rehabilitation centres and, more generally, wherever the coexistence of the public and private sectors may have been. And private doctors entered the system as needed. That is, if you will, a different concept that we have, because we believe in the strong health system, the strong public health system, the strengthening of hospitals, but we are not dogmatic, and we think that yes, there may be cooperation between the public and private sectors. Besides, in the four and a half years of your administration you have not cut any private contract with the EEAS, instead you have extended contracts that were in existence and activities specifically for private providers. Because you too, regardless of whether you are obsessed with dealing with the National Health System alone as a public health system, do you realize that the gaps existing in the public health system can be covered and served by the private sector? This smooth cooperation is logical. The whole debate is forced to pass on to the debate that is taking place with the vaccination. And because we hear things here and often I hear the arguments, I don't know if Mr. Paulakis has joined the Greek Solution, because what I hear from the Greek Solution, from Mr. Hetas today, I hear them from Mr. Polakis lately. And I would like to make it clear that this must not be the subject of any more political disagreement. We very much welcome the clear position expressed by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsakalotos and the sectoral and former Minister of Health, Mr Xanthos, that the unique treatment for the pandemic is vaccination. Surely you understand that, too, ladies and gentlemen, a personal view of former SYRIZA Secretary of State for Health saying that "I don't do the vaccine" and not only that, "I don't do it, I will wait" is not a good message for society. It's important that SYRIZA makes this clear. We're going to this famous thing about the right to choose, so we can even come to 150 euros. Here we are confusing the concepts, because there is a recent decision of the Coronary Council, which is not about the coronary, about another possibility of vaccination and, indeed, about children, whether or not they would be written at the child's post, which was negative for their parents and the Council of State, has rightly weighted it. When a medical act is only for the benefit of what it accepts, the right of self-determination is obviously absolute. So his choice is not to do the vaccine. However, since the vaccine, beyond its own consequences, is also a factor that can carry risks to public health and others, it has been considered to be constitutionally intolerable restrictions, such as the specific case, which I am telling you, of the decision not to write the children at the nursery because the right to choose not to be vaccinated does not stop at its own choice of self-determination of the good of health or life as it wishes, but is carried over that he can become a body and carry the disease and effectively transfer the disease to a public health problem. Therefore, it should not be taboo to discuss that yes, there are categories that fully vaccinated people who do not themselves pose a risk of transmission of the disease can have more regular procedures than people who have the option not to be vaccinated, but at the same time they cannot have the choice to be dangerous themselves and to transfer the disease to others. To come here, ladies and gentlemen, and to blame the government for the 150 euros with a arguments that are cheap, literally cheap, it offends the moral situation if you think that a man is being bought out with these 150 euros. You may be judging for yourself, with things you do or that it's your mental mood and moral code. So there is a government that has supported the whole society as far as it could have supported it. And he's talking to where? It addresses the generation of eighteen to twenty-five people: they are people who did not go so far into the measures, because they were not basically at the age of the benefits they had. And yes, it is the age you would expect to say that vaccination has a more altruistic approach to society. Because it is a world in danger, but it is obviously not as dangerous as one of our fellow citizens from my age and upwards, which we ourselves have for the sake of our health the need to make the vaccine. The eighteen to twenty-five years are at stake, but in their case there is also an altruistic approach, that they are also vaccinated for themselves, but also for society. So this process, which has the characteristics of a reward alone, does not combine either with election times or with times that you want to make a contribution, but with a necessity that we have all come out and we have called that we should have the desired number of vaccinated people, especially at the beginning of the autumn, you come here to follow it, but without making any other proposal, to come and say "we should open the issue". I'm waiting. Here we are going up here to talk and take the blame of what we are talking about. Should there be a separation into categories of vaccinated and unvaccinated? Or do you want to say both here? Do those who go and are vaccinated to enter a more normal life process, since they are not a danger to our fellow citizens? Do there have to be stimuli for vaccination? Should there be in the context of freedom of choice also the consequences of their choice of being in a category and being dangerous to society? In all of this - and I close, Mr President - we must at some point thank them, because we have never thanked them, ladies and gentlemen, for the clinical trials on vaccines. Because now someone who goes and is vaccinated has no excuse to feel he's in danger, that vaccines are not safe. Imagine, thousands of people entered the clinical trials when they did not know the consequences, so that they could help society. So we must stop this logic that expresses individualism, "let everyone else go to do it, make the wall of immunity and see". And our message - and this is what the Ministry is doing - must be clear that vaccination will save us, save us first of all our lives, our health, but it will also be done in order to save everyone's public health, and not to give any other contradictory messages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u78	No, for ten seconds, for thirty seconds. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. To tell my dear colleague in the New Democracy - and that is not what the Greek Solution says, neither Hetas nor anyone - that the only treatment of diseases is medicine. This is a basic rule of medicine. Now you guys want to change it, that's fine. I really don't know if this is a political celebrity for your course, but it was like listening to Mr. Tsipras. You're saying the same thing. If I see you as a MP, Minister of Minister Tsipras, we'll have seen everything! And in any case, Mr. Plori, you three hundred of them get the vaccination certificates out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u80	Mr Amyras, the Secretary of State for the Environment, has the floor to develop this amendment by number 959 with regulations for the company DPRK-Infrastructure. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Heta, 'Health cares for the prevention'. So that is what Mr Ploris said, and I think you agree with that, since you also love the ancient Greek secretariat. However, the amendment I will be presenting is the amendment with a general number of 959 and a special number of 153. What does this amendment that belongs to our Ministry say? It contains three main issues. Firstly, it modifies and adds to the definitions of the natural gas distribution network and more will include all infrastructures for their distribution at regional level covering and remote networks powered by LNG or CNG. That's the first. The second is that it gives an extension of the authorisations for the distribution and management of the networks granted to gas distribution companies. The substance is extended for 10 years extra. It was for twenty years and will be 30 years in order to clearly illustrate the procedure and the conditions for granting a licence to a third party, then, of course, an application by the licence holder and an accreditation act by the Energy Regulatory Authority (RAE). And finally, this amendment contains rules on the pricing of various gas distribution activities. The substance and core of this arrangement, as far as this part is concerned, is as follows. It says that if the gas distribution network includes emerging areas - emerging areas are those areas where the twenty-year period from the start of their gas supply - it can be netted out with natural gas distribution networks in another region belonging to the same legal person or others controlled by the licensed person. In other words, the purpose is not to make recoverys early so that tariffs remain low. Finally, RAE as a supervisory and regulatory authority will ensure that this provision does not misuse its mechanism to ensure the competitiveness of natural gas for consumers. Thank you very much. I'm here for clarificational answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Minister, don't go away. Does anyone want to clarify the amendment? Oh, no. Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to speak on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u84	Wait a minute, Mr. Barbara. Here, Mr Katrin, you have the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. While several, Minister, the provisions appear to be reasonable, the provision in paragraph 3, I think that it is an excessive and graceful extension of the 30-year licence at the simple request of the distribution company and of summary procedures. I think that criteria should be laid down if the investor has so far successfully fulfilled the obligations. Why would a further extension of a licence for thirty years be granted to an investor who has not fulfilled his obligations? Establish an evaluation procedure through RAE for the performance of the company and provide for the non-extension of authorisation for justified serious reasons or for prolongation on terms where omissions are identified in the evaluation. I am sorry to say this, Minister, but this provision obviously comes at the request of the candidates who are interested in the FIFG - Infrastructure, beyond any sense of evaluation and modern institutional framework. And I would very much like you to withdraw it and reassess paragraph 3. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u86	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, Mr. Catarine, you are not right. According to the existing legal framework, the authorisations of gas distribution companies expired in 2043, with the possibility of an extension. The law says it, which I think your party has voted for. The extension is given for twenty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u88	Yeah, but it's gonna be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u89	Wait a minute. It won't be on simple request at all. The RAE will examine and the application should be made one year before the extension. The extension should be requested one year before the expiry of the authorisation and the RAE will decide whether or not to be granted. Therefore, while any authorisation, any gas distribution company in 2043, expired in the current legislative framework, is granted another ten years, so that these gas distribution companies may have the time to complete their business plans, to complete their investments, to open up more jobs. And in this process, with our amendment, it improves and clarifys the prolongation procedure and the time of completion of any investment, and the supervisory role of RAE is clearly guaranteed. And I conclude, Mr President. We are bringing a safe legislative framework with this amendment. We ensure that the duration of the authorisations for distribution and management is sufficient to implement and amortise investments. And above all, in this way we give the opportunity to open new jobs. I'm sure you agree on that, too. Where such companies are active in having the possibility of hiring more people, completing their investments, making their depreciation and always aiming to keep the pricing of their services low. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Mr Baroness, you have the floor and you have the apologies for the anomaly, the slightest delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u91	Please, Mr President. Thank you so much for giving me the floor. There is no doubt, honourable Members, that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is important. And despite the fact that the agreement was signed in 2017-2018, one would say that today because of the pandemic's juncture, it is becoming increasingly important and someone would say that it is double commendable. We must, however, make it clear here that the donation of the institution has nothing to do with what Mr Mitsotakis has said before - and this is a good end - that the pandemic, the burden of the private sector in the health system, has indeed done so in a way of disrespectful and insulting, one would say, for those who have actually given the battle and, literally, 'blooded blood' in hospitals, in the field of combatting pandemics. So it has nothing to do with this partnership because the foundation does not claim anything for the operation of what it contributes to establish, but that is why I will say below. Without excluding any partnership with the private sector, it is sufficient for it to contribute to the functionality and effectiveness of the health system and not replace it for the well-known reasons. There are also provisions relating to various exceptional provisions, their extension. One would say that there is no legislative or legal problem here, but there is a more general political problem. Mr. Mitsotakis at least ten times has announced the end of the pandemic. And we are not talking about the first phase, where the unseen by naked eye virus alone in the hearing of the word Moses cut off, then we are not talking about the second phase after October - the recent October - when despite the fact that Mr Mitsotakis was preaching the end of the pandemic, the cases reached the four hundred thousands, the losses of our fellow citizens about thirteen thousand, thirty times over the victims in the first phase and Greece, unfortunately, ranked sixth in Europe in terms of mortality. However, if Mr Mitsotakis declared the end of the pandemic ten times propaganda, he also declared the country's fortification through vaccinations. In fact, in his last position he said that the country was completely fortified, she was missing and the spear, she also acquired it with the Recovery Fund. But is the country fortified? Because here we heard a spokesman from the New Democracy saying that his children asked him to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Of course, this child's patent, apparently, the kids were taken from the parents. You've established him by means of a flat vaccination. You've guaranteed the patent. You're about to go to the global organization as well, but you know something, in any country that would have happened, that is, the square vaccination, there would have been resignations. On the contrary, while these phenomena are growing, the next polls show greater acceptance. So go on with it, too, by the children. So since the country is fortified and after a living calm, why suddenly this panic? Where does he owe the 150 euros for a voucher? So, the supermarket of the state of staff has it all? And donations? Professor Gertziafas said "give me a bar" now that you're in panic. And that is indeed a question. Why the panic if we're fortified? And since the numbers say that one out of three is inconsistent and do not arbitrarily use the numbers. At some point, I think today, the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, said that in the end, according to his forecasts, not mine, his, the vaccinations will not exceed 60%. He said it today. Sometimes. It's been lately. Mr. Minister, Mr. Adonis Georgiades says no truth to be plausible. You use them - and this is a crooked counselor - to convince people to be vaccinated - as propaganda consumers, as fish ready to sting. So big you feed for the new generation. After having dragged her into school, now get 150 euros a voucher. While the EUR 400 on SYRIZA for the unemployed were crumbs. Now take 150 euros and drink a beer to my health! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In order not to abuse the time, the truth is this: you are possessed by an idealism - you have invaded as a bull in a glass shop, privatization everywhere and not in a way, as I described at the outset, in the health system. This is what you are doing in all areas, in health in terms of life and death, in the work that the other person will have to eat and what kind of wages will be paid for, in all areas - and you are making the history by mistake of thinking that Thatcher is her long-time in power, she owed it to this kind of idealism. That's not true. Her long-term life was due to historical circumstances and you know what Thatcher left behind? He left social ruins. He left hatred in society. On the occasion of anniversaries, protests are also being held in her grave. You guys think you caught the jocker of neoliberalism. That you will proceed without great reactions to impose this idealism, but we believe that at some point the Greek people will understand where you are going and then the political consequences will be cumulative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u92	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor now. Then Mr. Konstantinos Maraveias will be given the floor from New Democracy, then the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr.Michael Katrinis, shortly after the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr. Xanthos and will close the cycle with Mr. Vassilis Spanakis from New Democracy and Mr. Dimitrios Charitou from SYRIZA. That'll be the turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, after Mr Haritou, I as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u94	After Mr. Haritou, Mr. Brutsi. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law by the Ministry of Health on the basis of a failure, amateur, auspicious, management of the pandemic by the government, which with controversial choices, but also with various communication fireworks, has put our country in an extremely difficult position, because, to speak specifically, according to the surveys that have been carried out, our country ranks thirty-seven OECD countries in terms of the effectiveness of the management of the pandemic and, of course, is in the sixth worst position in cases of death rates since the beginning of the pandemic, that is to say, around the same position as Italy, which we know has gone through and worse than India itself. According to valid reports from pro-government media, what is being transported is that within six months of the first vaccination on 27-12-2020, the vaccination coverage may reach 35% tomorrow. On the other hand, according to scientific forecasts, what is leaking is that we may get to 50% to 55% at the end of September, if everything goes on wishingly, which rarely happens, taking into account the Delta mutation at the moment, so building this immunity wall with 75% vaccination coverage is something not just difficult but impractical. However - why did the government say that we will cover this figure at the end of the summer - is the Secretary-General of the Primary Health Care Mr Themistocleus coming out and saying what? That a database estimates that 70% of immunity is possible in the summer. So the question I ask - let the Minister answer us, since he is here - is the result of what Mr Themistocleus invoked, from where does the assessment that we will have an increase in vaccines in two months' time? Twice as much as that predicted by the scientific community within three months. This, of course, is a micrograph of the whole state and government's attitude during the pandemic. As a general observation and picture, various executives come out and say things unthinkable, inaccurate that go beyond common sense, but also the arithmetic itself. The question is whether you have understood how the citizens themselves are decoding this attitude, who are in constant confusion, lasting insecurity and uncertainty. What they ultimately decode with all these contradictions between your statements is that you do not know what is happening to you, that what you are saying is literally what goes down to your head, without any consistency, without any consistency, without any convincing explanations of your decisions and without specific, convincing explanations of the questions you have been asked. To make an account of your general policy from the beginning. You first made Mr. Chiodra totem. What did you do? You have tried to familiarize yourself, to borrow the scientific authority of a committee - because this prestige is obviously missing from you - and to show that your preconceived choices are matched by scientific opinions. Then what did you do? When you saw that the committee's recommendations are not in line with your choices, you took Mr Chiodra out of the castle, and you simply neglected the work done by the Committee on Infectious Substances. What you have caused is a huge blow to the public image of scientific credibility and, of course, with all the work you have done, what you have done is to sow panic, confusion and suspicion to the public. Afterwards, you have had the courage to go out and blame the citizens on the basis of individual responsibility only so that you do not take on the political responsibility you have had so far for the irresponsible management of the pandemic. I now come to an issue concerning vaccinations. In various places, in time, I had asked to know why the under-sixty years were vaccinated with Astra Zeneca, when all the rest of Europe except Cyprus had put a veto on or rather did not grant these age groups this vaccine. What we heard from the government is that everything is okay, that the scientific community has given the green light, that no one should worry. However, the world was very concerned, and what has taken us into account is that "how is it possible throughout Europe for scientists, and here the government's scientists, to have given different advice". These concerns are very reasonable because they do not come from people who are negative to vaccines and who, of course, you want to target and demonize by simply calling them'sprayed', when it comes to people who simply put questions, are concerned and demand convincing explanations. It is very reasonable that this concern when the vaccination committee comes in a few days ago and puts a stop to administering AstraZeneca to the under sixty and invokes all this alalum because your explanations are insufficient. So I would like you to ask, Minister, those who have already made the first dose of AstraZeneca and who are in this age group how they feel, how you will convince them to make the second dose with the same vaccine, when the committee now considers that it is not appropriate for their age, and how you will also convince them to make the second dose with another vaccine from another company, when the company's own document does not guarantee any possible side effects in the event of interaction with other vaccines and does not guarantee any effectiveness. After all these recurring, and while you have already sprinkled fear, panic and confusion among the vaccinated themselves, you have now set the goal of persuading the more sceptics not just with ambiguities and escapades, but also with a logic that I shall call obscene. I am referring precisely to this little gift, the opposite gift you announced yesterday with the 150 euro card to the eighteen-four-four-year age group. It is this literally detained vaccination premium which shows that you are effectively despising the young people who have impoverished them with your monumental choices, which you targeted them when they went out to the streets to claim their rights, which you are targeting even in claiming their academic rights and interests within the university space, and now you want to buy their consciences down, insulting their intelligence. It is what a student rightly said: "You are treating us as the monkeys you will give us the banana and we will take it." You have even called it a 'free card'. This is the very tragic one, because this is your perception of freedom, this is your understanding of free choice, by buying off as if it were the young supermarket customers. It's a disgrace to all of this. You think you're addressing people of low intelligence. The question is whether vaccination is so reasonable, it is so harmless, it is so self-evident and effective, because you have to pay for this, because you have to make gifts. So our argument is not cheap, and I now reply to Mr Plory, because that is what he said in addressing a colleague. It is cheaply the policy you are implementing, having virtually realised that your social experiments are failed. Again addressing Mr. Plori, who said the vaccinated are harmless? If they were harmless, then why in Israel that they - supposedly - cover the immunity wall, is the dispersion at the moment uncontrolled? Let Mr. Ploris answer these questions. Last one of you has come another very nice idea in the context of creating polarisation and division between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated, to do - says - the restaurants control of the vaccinated. And the representatives of GATT themselves came out and told you that what you are actually saying is to make face control of sensitive personal data. They clearly told you that the industry cannot accept this because you want to set up two speed businesses. So what you have to do is first to think about what is wrong you have done up to now and not to transfer all the problem to professionals and, of course, they are absolutely right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need about a minute and a half. Let us see another "success" of the government, another success of which has to do with replies from the Minister of Tourism Mr. Theocharis at the BBC, to a journalist who asked specific questions. What Mr Theocharis, of course, forgot is that the BBC does not belong to the Peca list, and that is because, in fact, with the answers just as much as it made the country internationally. Of course, the journalist did not want in any way to avade the minister who disguised inaccuracies and vagueness. Is the Minister, who - together with the co-responsible ministers, of course, and with the Prime Minister, primarily, as a primary responsibility - responsible for the unorganised opening up of tourism last summer without the necessary border controls and mass tracing that he had to do, so that we can live up to all this tragic situation that we experienced in the autumn, so that we have reached this point that we have about 12,000 six hundred dead to date and with a national health system that still suffers, which is under insufferable pressure, which we have of course absorbed? Health personnel, nurses and doctors. These modern heroes, however, who have not escaped your misery, because you have not even allowed them to express their scientific opinion publicly. In fact, you have started, you have put forward and unacceptable disciplinary procedures only to shut down mouths, you have sworn doctors who dared to say self-evidently, that you have not supported the National Health System, and of course only last week in the parliamentary committee came the time for nurses to go to the government's sights. I am referring to statements by a particular Member who has used a complaint as a pretext to tell us that most nurses are indifferent, fighting hours among themselves, do not enter the chambers, to end up saying of a bad nursing service. So I would like you, Minister, to tell us, firstly, whether you are adopting these Members' statements to the hospitals, secondly, how you feel about doctors and nurses coming out and talking about the government's make news to the real situation in the hospitals and, thirdly, how responsible you feel about another point of complaint made by a Member who says the following about hospitals: there are no sheets, beds are bad, bathrooms are damaged, spirals are missing from the showers, they run the hamburger unstoppable water from the ceiling. Or is this all the fault of health personnel? [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In conclusion, I am still waiting for an answer - since April - to ask a specific written question on a burning issue - what is finally happening with anti-coronvirus medicines, because in addition to the issues that have arisen with vaccination, there are people who are ill, need appropriate medication and in order not to risk their lives, but also to avoid long-term couscous and side effects from the coronary. I asked you this question. You never answered. So I ask you again what you have planned and how you will move for neoclassical antibodies, for the antiviral remdecir medicine that seems to be safe and effective against the coronary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. You will allow me a slight interruption in the flow of the procedure for a communication to this House and a decision to be made. The communication to this House is as follows, ladies and gentlemen: The Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister Nikolaos Papapas during his duties has presented its findings to the President of the Parliament, which will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The above finding is recorded here, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Let the pages in. 180-412
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u97	And a decision. As you remember, on Monday, February 1st, 2021, in the Evros region, the Anti-Frauder Zahiropoulou John at the severely bad weather that hit the region lost his life in attempting to decapitate students because of the flood. On 4 February 2021, with a unanimous proposal from the Conference of Presidents, his children were adopted by members of the Conference of Presidents. I do not know whether you remember the fact that the House in 2011 and after 20 July 2011, in its attempt to ensure the implementation of the financial assistance of children of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, has decided to pay tribute to the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies who lost their lives in the performance of their duties by murderous action or a fall of aircraft or during the fire suppression. Because this is not literally a fire bonfire, but it is a flooding issue, I wanted to have your approval for the adoption by Parliament and the inclusion into the programme that has been in place for decades of the children of that Refugee. I would remind you that the Prime Minister and all the parties' leaders had taken a stand on this issue, and indeed the Prime Minister said that the state in all its forms would make its debt. The conclusion of the Fire Corps, which I have in front of me, says that "his life was lost at the time he was doing in service and for this, manifestly and unquestionably." I would therefore like to ask the House whether you agree with the unanimous proposal of the Conference of Presidents of 4 February 2021, so that the Parliament's budget, like dozens of other cases, will be strengthened annually by the three children of this Refugee. You have the floor, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would like to say this. Obviously we agree with the enlargement you are proposing. It is an act of sensitivity and care of the Greek Parliament against this tragic event. I would, however, suggest, for our part, that the Bureau should study this provision and the corresponding care for families of health who, in the midst of a pandemic, have lost the battle with life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u99	Thanks for the deal. There is a proposal for what you said to me now. It is simply another matter of order, it has nothing to do with today's decision. Today's decision was made in plenary because the original decision speaks of fires, while this was not a fire, it was a flood, which is also a fireman's duty. So it had to be a formal plenary decision. The rest will be considered. Does the House agree with the above proposal of the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u100	As is unanimous in the decision of the Conference of Presidents, it is clear that the adoption of this proposal is unanimous and I thank you for that. It is now possible for the House to continue with the normal course of the legislative work. Thank you very much. Mr Maraveyas, Member of the Republic of New Democracy, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, another bill comes to solve problems in the health sector and in the New Democracy obviously and we are voting in favour of it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] It contains undeniably positive measures such as the ratification of contracts with the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation to strengthen the new General Hospital of Komotini by adding a complex of magnetic tomography, breast imaging section, C camera installation complex, two additional surgical rooms and new possibilities for therapeutic exercise and rehabilitation. Also, through the Foundation, existing mental health activities are extended to children and adolescents, strengthening their respective structures and the more remote areas of the country, and funding, however, a five-year scientific programme including the training of mental health professionals. As part of the integration of other new projects, it was also agreed to finance the study of the construction and equipment of two new buildings at the University General Hospital of Attica in order to serve hospitality needs, inventing doctors and the establishment of a Medical Units Coordination Centre. This draft law, however, is not limited to these projects alone. It contains a series of other provisions which are equally important. Before, however, I refer to these provisions, I would like to say a few words about the drunken disinformation of the public, on the part of a portion of the counter-population, which has taken place, Madam President, and a few minutes ago by the previous colleague, with the aim of speaking, on the allegedly critical statements to the detriment of nurses, who, in fact, are methodically dismissing them, whose work and their perpetuality are protected by the Constitution. I would not normally respond to these funny things, because if I did so systematically, I would not have time to address the serious issues. But unfortunately, people with whom I worked and worked so far for the good of Volos Hospital. So I honor all the people of our hospital in Magnesia and those who know me from the health sector know me, I am sure they understand how invalid this distortion of what I said was and that there was a "murder of a character". I talked about assessing hospital services as a whole, which is something quite different. I have spoken about the fact that there are administrations that need to take care of the control and the discipline of hospitals and services under the administrations, which must also be checked for their operations. That should, logically, be of interest to both the opposition and my critics, since we are all here representing the citizens. So those citizens, the fellow citizens who may not have been to a hospital until now as potential patients, will at some point need these public services. Minister, for the professionals of the space, everything I have said is, of course, a part of a quality control system for health services. The assessment of hospital services is, of course, complemented by the evaluation of their administrations. We're not a SYRIZA, we're not a Civic Opposition. We believe in evaluation at all levels. Today's administration of Volos Hospital is being dealt with and, in turn, it is not partisan and will certainly be evaluated. At this point I must acknowledge the efforts the Ministry of Health started a few days ago to reassess all the administrations of the hospitals of the RIS, an assessment based on indicators and measurable data, but it should also be complemented by the evaluations of their services, which I have already mentioned. Last summer we passed the law on the creation of a new organisation, the PPPY, which must proceed directly to his work, which is to ensure quality in the field of health, so that they do not have to reach names - not anonymous - friends, Mr. Meikopoulou, letters from patients...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u102	Friends?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u103	Because you said, Mr. Colleague, it was my friends. So they were your friends and your respectable father. Therefore, patient letters to the Members, to be examined - do not need to arrive - but to be properly evaluated in the form of structured questionnaires to be submitted to hospitals. In other words, a modern quality control system for all health care, hospitality and so on, as is the case in all the advanced countries of the world, will have to operate everywhere in the NS. To sum up, because there is an addiction of some to lies, I have to repeat what is actually happening. The only aim of a quality assurance system is the continuous improvement of services, neither the dismissal of workers nor the closure of units nor their privatisation. It is simply a 'old' propaganda, which we heard last year on the occasion of the draft law on the PPPY. Self-evidently, the Ministry of Health has it. The administration, however, is carried out by the health regions and, in particular, the hospital administrations. So, of course, the assessment of administrations must also be carried out. I should like to end, Mr President, by stressing the strong social character of the bill, which involves extending the health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups, the possibility of carrying out free checks on COVID -19, the issue of monthly or repeated prescriptions for patients over time and the dispatch to the home of medicinal products that are in need of vulnerable citizens. All this shows that the New Democracy Government remains close to the weakest and will continue to support our society, keeping it up, even after the end of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u104	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now the parliamentary representative has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u105	Madam President, excuse me. On staff one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u106	You have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u107	Madam President, to restore the truth, it has just been said by my colleague, Mr Maraveya, that the sender of this letter, who was read last week in the Committee on Social Affairs in this House, is my friend or friend. In fact, it went a little further than being a friend of my father who works as a doctor at "Achilopoulos" Volos Hospital. The only thing I have pointed out so far and I repeat it in Parliament's plenary is: Mr Maravegias, having been a doctor at the "Achilopoulos" Hospital of Volos, knows that there are institutions of the hospital and there is a civil service office. Since it had such a letter, complaint and complaint from staff behaviour to a patient, the first thing that it should do as a Member and as a politician is to address the institutions of the hospital in order to establish whether that letter was valid or not. Any complaints made if they are true or not. On the contrary, what he did was to read this letter in the House, to draw popular conclusions, saying that all the negative effects of the hospitals in the country and Volos are to blame for the bad nurses and the lack of evaluation. So the answer is very specific. If he thinks that it is not the assessment and that it is the bad nurses who have contributed to a negative picture of hospitals, that he and his other colleagues should stop applauding them from the balconies and call them heroes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u109	I want to reply, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u110	I don't think we should go on with this because there's a debate going on. You said what you said. He was placed on what he thought you affected him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u111	Just a minute, Madam President. The make news is extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u112	It's over, Mr. Comrade. I don't think there's any reason. There is a debate on this, and the procedure does not allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u113	He falsified my words, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u114	I don't think he falsified your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u115	I said clearly that I'm not talking about bad nurses and insists that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u116	Good, it's over. You're not talking about some nurses. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u117	It has to be revoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, we are not opening a debate in Parliament, you understand that. There's a procedure and this procedure - please don't shake my finger, please - we'll have to keep it somehow. I think so far we're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u119	My words are being ignored, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u120	If your words are falsified, then, you have one minute and the procedure is over, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President, for taking the floor and giving me the floor. I believe that Mr Meikopoulou has, in fact, been insisting, in the last few days, on falsifying my words in order to 'kill' my character in the local society of Magnesia. I ask him, for the last time, because we are all really judged to withdraw what he has said. Because I have never talked to nurses, bad nurses, and all of this is a waste of imagination from those who really want to hurt and hold the ESS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, now has the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are watching today in the battle with the pandemic does not seem to make us proud as a country with exclusive responsibility - and I stress this - the government's responsibility. The government has created a confusion that I really hope will not turn into a conflict between people in tourism and focusing on the one hand and health scientists on the other. The government, following Mrs Merkel's comments, made a bucket of shit in the reception of tourists vaccinated with a vaccine not approved by the European Medicines Agency, changing the conditions for the arrival of Russian tourists in our country since 30 June. As for the communication handling of AstraZeneca vaccine with which overall the reliability of the vaccination operation was undermined, the largest promotion of the anti-embryotic movement was finally demonstrated. Initially, it was allocated to the younger ages, and was then recommended for ages above sixty. And the Prime Minister himself said on 30 April that the best vaccine is the fastest. But wrong, Prime Minister, as it turns out, because the best vaccine is the safest. And finally, the rates of vaccination, like the government itself, admits, are delays that make the wall of immunity a difficult equation for which, however, we all deserve to put back and support an effort that concerns our own lives, the country, the present and the future of this place. There is a continuous reduction in the proportion of citizens closing an appointment for vaccination. For example, comparing the two past Sundays, about 30% of Sunday that passed us corresponds to the number of appointments that were just one week ago. And despite the leaks or announcements that Mr Georgiadis and Mr Gerapetritis have made for eases, there does not seem to be unfortunately a mood for vaccination. I would like here to take the opportunity on Thursday and Mr Georgiadis's position and today Mr Brutsi and all the government officials who, in a difficult situation, are trying in terms of targeting and social automation to come to political persons with whom I personally disagree with their position on the vaccination procedure and the confusion they are causing as to whether or not we need vaccination. These, then, government officials or representatives of the New Democracy come to Parliament and instead of considering their own responsibility for what they have not done properly to date, for confusing messages that have taken place all the time, for contradictory statements and decisions of the front and all that are made in the public debate that are only for certain and responsible, instead of the government taking into account its own responsibility for the fact that it has 'done' the number of vaccinations, that we do not go against vaccination, that it is not possible - I wish to disprove - today that we are talking about a wall of immunity by the end of August, and I think that it does not contribute to a climate of consensus that the political system should, in my view, misguidedly express opinions against vaccination or create confusion over this national effort, but that this is now becoming a strategic option for the New Democracy and the Government and I think that it is not contributing to a climate of consensus that the overall system must pass, not only pass on to the vaccination need. The Ministry of Health, but also the government as a whole, must take responsibility and consider whether there is some responsibility for the fact that at the moment we are not at the rate we should have, and we would all like to see this public debate here too in the Chamber. I remember the Prime Minister that during the quarantine period every two weeks came out with an order, with announcements, with recommendations of responsibility. But now that real decisions are needed because we are now seeing the difficult ones in front of us, only yesterday we saw him announcing hundreds of vouchers as an incentive to vaccination, at the same time that he has tacitly accepted and confessed to the failure of the whole campaign that we prompted him to do the previous time so that he could pass the appropriate message. Today, the Minister of Development and the Minister of State fly the ball to the businessmen by saying to them: You decide whether you will have unrestricted or mixed spaces. It is your responsibility, so you will be struggling with potential customers at a time that is very difficult for the economy and for business and professionals. As far as the hundredth of thousands are concerned, I think that for young people who are envisioned with the wages of EUR 400 or 450 - and I wonder if in this Chamber anyone has recently worked with EUR 400 or EUR 450 wages as determined by the elastic contracts or employment contracts - obviously the government because it thinks in this way - that is why it considers that a EUR 150 voucher would be tempting so that it could overcome the difficulties of the project. Yesterday, the Prime Minister with a host of ministers came out and announced the freedom pass, as he called it, and the unimportant "squeezed the opportunity to pinch." That is what I am saying, and also why he has not chosen the word 'freedom' for young people and has chosen English terminology. That's the first question. The second question is: I understand the need for persuasiveness among young people, but from the data it seems that important or perhaps more important problems exist in the age group forty-five to fifty-nine, but also in special territorial units such as large islands and specific regional units. That's why some government has planned. Summer is in the middle and you are showing an unprecedented embarrassment and procrastination. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is not the government's assessment of tourism, but health safety. The point is that Greek citizens and all those who visit our country feel safe. And I fear that the government with the relics, but also the lack of preparation, undermines this prospect. And I say this by seeing the pictures of tourist resorts, images that make us deeply concerned. There are no EGE workshops at land borders, no 24-hour shifts of health workers are planned for rapid tests. And you are now trying, at the last minute, with the amendment to solve it with mobile units from private centres. They have not proceeded, as they should, with priority vaccinations for workers in tourism and transport of citizens and tourists in tourist destinations. While rapid test and molecular control are envisaged for returning tourists to their countries, we wonder, you have ensured that these tests are carried out immediately and that the results are issued. Fernandez, if one day they leave Corfu airport or Kos ten thousand tourists and have to carry out these tests, have you ensured the necessary infrastructure and human resources so that these results can be obtained immediately? Has health structures been properly strengthened in the islands that are leading tourist destinations? Our rapporteur, Andreas Poulas, put it. We are ante portas from the delta mutation that at least the special and praised epidemicists characterize particularly contagious and that it will dominate by the end of the summer, that is 90% of the new cases. And I say this to connect it to what philosophy should have a bill of health ministry that should have vision and strategy for the National Health System and shield the country in view of the likely coming fourth wave of pandemics and what you bring to the donations of the institution "Stavros Niarchos". Obviously, we vote. Our rapporteur has asked us whether the Ministry of Health will come to inform the Committee on Social Affairs of what has been done so far with donations and whether they have been best exploited in terms of the objectives and effectiveness of the National Health System. So we ask for a financial and operational statement. Here, then, comes a bill with this flagship title which includes two thirds, perhaps more, of extensions of provisions which, for once, receive extensions, legalisation of expenditure, direct awards, derogations. Inside what is going through and embleming, of course, some provisions for sensitive social groups, but the nature of the bill is extensions until the end of September for a series of procedures derogating from the existing framework. And I wonder: A year and a half after the start of the pandemic, there is no such administrative mechanism that it can operate under existing legislation. Here comes the government and says 'we have gone to the digital age, finally red tape, finally delays, all remoteness', and all procurement procedures and awards are now being extended to Parliament? And not only that, but in the wave of prolongations which the government has made because of the pandemic, it is also very easy to extend as soon as the day before yesterday for the heavy and unhealthy professions. Why are you prolonging the operation of this committee? Do you think so, Minister? Are you still thinking about it? The explanatory statement says that there are disagreements in the committee on heavy and unhealthy. Is there anyone here who disagrees with the fact that workers in hospitals, health centers, welfare structures, social care units should receive the benefits of the heavy and unhealthy after all this effort and the offer we have in the pandemic period? We, as a movement of change, have tabled it six times and we want a clear government position, a political position in this Chamber today, if it agrees that workers in the ESS should join the heavy and unhealthy professions. I leave it to myself to extend the mandate of the administrative bodies, especially health regions. We in the 6th Health Region would be interested in the assessment of the administration as well as in the laws of Ilias, which have been disfellowshipped by medical staff, but also in cases that have been seen in publicity related to the intensive care unit of the Hospital of Agrinio. Unfortunately, what the bill goes through is that even after a year and a half of a pandemic you are not convinced that the National Health System must be supported. Your only support runs out of money from the Recovery Fund that Mr. Skylakakis is coming out and says there will be a modernization of hospitals. No one, however, improves the framework, no substantial staffing in human and especially medical resources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to refer to two provisions before I finish my position, Madam President. As far as EEA is concerned, I think you are canceling an attempt on administrative organisation and drawing up studies and declarations. You now entrust them to private individuals, while there are organised services, there is a legal service in the EEA. I don't understand this impulse of the government to want to expand the model of outsourcing. Obviously, it's a precursor for other public structures too. As far as the incompatibilities you put between a member of the board of directors of a pharmaceutical association and a member of the board of directors of a pharmaceutical cooperative are concerned, this is indeed an originality. We do not understand why, apart from some photographic provision that you want someone, obviously, to exclude him because he does not agree with your choices and I do not understand why you criminalize a profession in the pharmaceutical industry, which is, in all cases, legal and institutionalised. Finally, Mr President, as far as the Ministry of Rural Development and the amendment are concerned, I think that the provisions of Article 90 should also apply to central cooperatives. And, of course, I think that all this should exist, beyond the general assemblies of agricultural cooperatives, for the central cooperative organisations and for the consortia of agricultural cooperative organisations which are already in operation today. Therefore, a proper provision should, I think, be made in these cases too. Finally, we tabled an amendment to Mr Andreas Pulas with regard to the matters of directors. As you know, Mr. Colleague, since 2009 almost all the positions of the coordinators of the ESS have not been published, but have been entrusted by decision of the management board of hospitals following suggestions made by medical services directors and scientific council chairmen. These are, therefore, until the opening of the seats. I therefore think, Minister, that it should be because some issues have arisen as to whether they have legally received the benefits arising from the position of coordinator and perhaps because they will also arise along the way, for as long as these duties have been, to continue to receive the remuneration and allowances resulting from the position of coordinator and not possibly to be sought by the administrations of people who have been in these positions all over the previous years. Throughout the period of the pandemic, they interrupted the National Health System and I think they contributed to an effective response from the National Pandemic Health System. They must therefore ensure that the position they are serving today does not constitute a hive heel and that remuneration and allowances resulting from the post are sought because it was only by delegation and not by notice. And I think there should be a definitive regulation in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Andreas Xanthos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again at a turning point in the major health crisis, the pandemic. The bill we are discussing obviously has the part of the ratification of the contract with the institution "Stavros Niarchos", an excellent, emblematic cooperation of a public interest between the public system and the institution and, obviously, we support it. This has nothing to do with it - because you sometimes tend to use it as a cover - with what is in your programme - you have declared it repeatedly and now cowardly - to bring it back to the public debate again - the idea of public-private partnerships with a view to making profitable investments in the hard core of the ESS and thus gradually to have a privatization of critical functions, sectors - gillettes that exist today in the public health system. As far as the situation is concerned, there are no successes either in the management of the pandemic or in the issue of vaccinations. The picture from the health system after a multi-month COVIDation is: complete disorganization. Cowards - cowardly at this time and in a very difficult way, hospitals are trying to recover functions which they had practically deprived from citizens, from people with severe and chronic illnesses who were suffering, were not served by the health system and were financially burdened. It is absolutely characteristic of an investigation by the Greek Cancer Federation, the Panhellenic Cancer Association, which says that 87% of its members consider the administration of the Government in the second and third waves to be negative, 49% of its members say it was financially burdened to have the necessary care in the midst of a pandemic - people of cancer - and 22% declares that their treatment and care has been affected at this time. So he disorganized the system and there is, above all, a lack of prospect of a major investment the next day. At the same time, in the field of vaccination, neither is there, obviously, a success story. There is an exhaustion of willing persons to be vaccinated and the government begins to move under panic, under the state of insecurity of evolution in this very critical and vital field. Because a great deal has been said, once again, clearly: vaccination, Catholic and mass vaccination is the leading intervention of the primary prevention of pandemic at global level, and it must be done in a timely and equitable manner throughout the world, otherwise, as far as there are differences in access to vaccines, the more favourable conditions are created to produce new mutations. Whole countries, whole continents, such as Africa, which currently has a vaccination coverage of 1.3% of its population, operate as incubators of new contagious and under investigation if they are even more lethal, more virulent mutations. So, if not structurally, nuclearally, the obstacle to equal and timely access for all the people of the earth to vaccination, which is the subject of the patent, and which we have in good time and in good time, has been raised by scientists, nobels, former Prime Ministers, have put it, has been set by academics and well-known scientists throughout the world, so has President Biden, realizing that this prolongation of this insecurity throughout the world is dramatically affecting the global economy and, of course, the US economy - as long as this is not being dealt with, so we will recycle the same difficulty and the same debate. But, apart from the availability of vaccines, there is also the question of the availability of citizens, of a portion of society being vaccinated. This is a crucial issue and, therefore, let me say that in our country, a crisis of confidence has been created because of miscommunications, due to ambiguities, because of contradictions, which have occurred in the course of the vaccination project. Confidence crises are being dealt with by confidence-building measures - let me say - with measures that are valid for information and persuasive and not impunity, with measures which favour the informed uptake of scientific messages and the understandable uptake and are convinced of the citizens' conscious assistance in this important act, which, as we have said, is of key importance. However, the whole structural strategy against COVID is not exhausted, of course. We must also say that clearly. First of all, we need intervention at community level. Prevention of virus dispersion is needed in the general population, in the areas of over-transmission, in the workplace. We know that, we've discussed it too many times. It needs good epidemiological surveillance and surveillance of cases. There the battle of the pandemic in our country and, secondly, the hospitals and the inadequacies of intensive care units were lost. That is where the last act of drama is usually unfolded. The battle with pandemic is lost or won at community level. Of course, part of the health strategy is the strengthening of the ESS, which has not existed. Part of the health strategy is access to available treatments, which are scientifically proven to be able to play a role in specific categories of patients, with specific predictors, under strict conditions and, of course, on condition that they can also be effective in respect of mutations because there is a new debate at this time. So that's the big picture. So on the question of the so-called privileges, let me tell you that the handling you are handling does not help in this direction, which we all want, namely the rapid and universal coverage and the creation of the immunity wall. The immunity wall, anyway, is a dynamic assumption. As new and more contagious mutations prevail, the limits to be attained are adjusted. Obviously, 35% of the full vaccination that we have today is in 50% of the goal that has been set by both Europe and our country, so that we will have at the beginning of the summer ensured this immune barrier. So we're way behind. But anyway, this is under constant review. Mr Mosilos says that we should now go to 82%, perhaps more, in any case more than 80% - I think Mrs Theodoridou said yesterday - so that we can have a safer protection than these new mutations. It is wrong, therefore, in a dynamically evolving pandemic and health crisis to send signals of relaxation at times and prematurely lifting serious public health measures, such as the use of the mask. It's a mistake to send a passport signal. Vaccination in such an environment of health, international and domestic, is not a passport of freedom and all these terms must be said to be "freedom pass", " FREEDOM", " blue FREEDOM". You see that all this can be easily put to risk. And it is obviously another thing to talk about a reasonable and scientifically substantiated facility for vaccinated citizens so that there is also a positive incentive to talk about privileges or a lot more about discrimination and to hear from government ministers that it is up to employers to lay off or not to hire people who, from choice, are not vaccinated. I think that these really trigger reactions, they really amplify arguments unscientific and darkening the so-called anti-invasive current. And, of course, we need arguments rather than intelligence, such as those used by the Prime Minister to "squee on the opportunity" and so on. So don't try to work on the vaccination process. It's gonna be a big mistake. It cannot and must not be vaccinated, this very important act of social solidarity and assistance to collective protection, and not just personal protection, can benefit from this type of treatment. Allow me to say a few words on the major issues of the health system and I shall end. There are many regulations here, which extend pre-existing provisions, their strength and so on. You're taking it up to 30-9. You will also be forced to extend, because the pandemic will continue to be present, and unfortunately it will show us its teeth in the next few months. We're not gonna get this over with easily. What we need to do is really invest and shield the public health and public health system, namely, care for the population. What you are doing now, beyond that, is adding provisions that have a strong perfume of favorable and customer-based thinking, such as this regulation on the awarding of nursing specialities to coordinators and alternate training coordinators. By what process, who recommended this, does the RESAN have a role to play? These are incredible things. Of course, there is also this regulation to which other colleagues have referred, which is a movement of arbitraryness and reunification, which concerns the alleged incompatibility between being someone on an administrative board of pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical cooperatives. These are really beyond the European field. They will fall and once again you will expose the country. The critical issue is the human potential in the health system. And since you are giving extensions to pensioners and others, they must finally make a serious agreement on what will be the prospect of the health system in particular - more than fifteen thousand - and how to manage the human resources of the health system. I have two suggestions to make. One proposal is to legislate - and to support it all together - the possibility for every post in the health system - either a doctor, a nurse, or other staff - automatically without any ministerial council acts, without the approval of the relevant ministries, without the approval of the relevant ministries and others, as was the case before the crisis, before 2010, to provide for an automatic reopening of the vacant post and even earlier than the withdrawal so that there is no gap. One is that. Secondly, bring in well-prepared, legal and constitutional arrangements, in proportion to the arrangements you have made for the recruitment of subsidiary intensive doctors who served in the ICUs and who have covered permanent organic posts in intensive care units, in order to deal with in a permanent and dignified manner with occupational insecurity, which currently exists in the health system. I think it is due to state intervention in general and not only to the current government. I shall close, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. I would say that it is unfortunately every day that a government of neoliberal perception of managing such a major health, economic and social crisis was not happy for the country. A government, which does not really believe in the public health system, does not believe in the strong social state, does not believe in state intervention, but has as its vision the expansion of the vital area for the market, for private investment and for their profitability. So I think that really leaves a print. It is now realised that the acute and more precarious phase of pandemic is slowly being passed by public opinion. There are public studies of this kind. The "News" yesterday wrote that the arrogance of power leads to mistakes. In other words, there is a risk that the problems will be solved. We don't have class opposition. We will behave seriously and responsibly, and above all we will put forward an alternative plan for the next day, which will reduce inequality, invest in the public health system, strengthen the social state, enable less work to be done to all, and have a progressive identity. There will obviously be possibilities and fields and social alliances and progressive programmatic convergences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilias Kikilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, I have been responsible for the health ministry for the past two years for the pandemic, but in the last fifteen months for the vaccination programme, we have all agreed that I have never been in a hurry to make announcements or to draw conclusions. I have always encouraged the Greek people and all of us to face this pandemic in both its appearances as a public health disease, as a huge battle in the National Health System - but also in the private hospitals and private hospitals, in the effort that has been made - and of course, as a huge pioneering attempt by our compatriots, something that has never been achieved before in our country and when it has been depreciated, unfortunately the results have been poor. I would therefore like to begin by thanking - I and all of us - the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the continuous, timely, organised and always crucial aiming and supporting of the National Health System, the people who do not have or cannot, and the effort to integrate top health units, whole hospitals, with latest technology systems, digitalised systems and the addition and donation to these programmes, whenever necessary, of individual programmes. There is no doubt that one major question after the pandemic will be of concern to the mental health of our fellow citizens, what will be the result of the pressure of these fifteen, sixteen months in their behaviour, in their character, in the way in which they deal with each other. In a favoured society, the organized state must prevent and organise this part. I think that the bill is clearly in this direction, with whatever other provision is to be incorporated and has to do with the current needs of the pandemic, the extension of contract time limits, and everything else that needs to be planned. In this context were the provisions on vaccines aimed at helping to implement the important part of universal vaccination, the possibility of our fellow citizens being vaccinated at home by the involvement of private doctors in this effort. We must take care of this in a pandemic, in order to shield public health in the coming months and next year, so that the vaccines - which are adapted to the mutations with the pan-European effort, which is done - exist and account for our population and the next year, if need be, as in the vulnerable groups - in the form of the third dose, the booster dose or the total vaccination. Science will decide and rule, and the Greek state must be ready. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged as Minister of Health to comment on what I have heard here and on the current news. I am making an observation, in good faith, about how we are here in the Greek Parliament. It is not deplorable what the political word of each of us has when it comes to society, in proportion to what we say and how we argue with it. There are arguments about the failure of the management of the pandemic, the collapse of the National Health System, the slowing down and failure of the vaccination programme at this time, when in every research and placement of our fellow citizens - wherever they belong politically - more than 80% consider our vaccination programme and the way in which it is the greatest success of the two years that have passed. Personally in this battle, I'm very sorry, I can't tell anyone. I think the battle is national. It does not only include the Greek Government, it includes the Greek society, it has nothing to do with parties, groups and personal political goals of each of us. Last week at the Council of Health Ministers in Luxembourg, after 15 months, I saw that they now have another perception of the country, following the treatment and battle given by our doctors, nurses and other staff, our fellow citizens and several of you against this pandemic. It was a huge challenge for the National Health System to stand, since we all know that it was a health system funded for at least a decade, due to restrictive budgetary policies. And yet he withstanded strong health systems throughout Europe and very rich countries that did not last. All the fellow health ministers, the Commissioner, the EMA and the ECDC, have come to congratulate us if not for the top, for one of the top European vaccination programmes and for professionalism, behaviour, the way our nurses, our doctors, our staff in health centres, hospitals, Mega Centers, are vaccinated, even for the way in which the HR approachs our fellow citizens, the way in which the sms are sent and the professional communication of the vaccination mode. The entire Greek society accepts the obvious - and we must all welcome it - that another citizen's relationship with the Greek public is being re-established. It seems that the Greek State in what it has to do with the National Health System and those who are involved in this huge vaccination programme, respects the citizen and this is what our fellow citizens see. We want it to be extended to all other manifestations of Greek society and the Greek public in everything that has to do with the behaviour of the citizen. These are not questionable. So when you want to criticise me, I am the first person to say that you are rightly criticised. We keep our notes on what you say and try to improve on time. Is everything perfect? Of course not. Besides, in a pandemic, it was impossible to predict everything, but whether or not the country has done so to date, and whether it is on the right track, this is credited to the Prime Minister who has and overall political responsibility for what is happening in the country at political level. For the head of the Ministry of Health, for the government and therefore for all those involved in this huge battle, I do not think there is any doubt. So don't be looking to find out why society and people don't listen to you. We are now going to specific things dealing with the current situation and the way in which we move on to the vaccination programme and how we treat our fellow citizens. We are slowly opening up - step by step - the economy. Be careful, at all stages of the reopening of the economy, the government has proved itself, Mr. Mitsotakis has proved that public health is first and foremost protected. I imagine he has no objection to that. We therefore encourage vaccination in all possible and legitimate ways, and we do not want to leave anyone behind, and this is a common place. We do want to build a wall of immunity all together, and that is something that is alive and what is about its rates is changing according to the circumstances. We want to defend and not undermine. The government has said this on several occasions horizontally and vertically, and has referred to the public health acquis, and that is why we are always moving towards continuous openings with these terms and rules. Come now and see what has happened in the last two days and has been discussed, as discussed and communicated, as communicated. We are talking about young people, our fellow citizens, the younger people, who are even more unfair, possibly, who should stay in a house that at this time should open their wings, be able to go to their universities, be able to find a job, make dreams, hope, dream, fall in love, have a job, and the pandemic kept them back. We're looking to find ways to support these people. Much has been announced these two years in relation to the new generation. The Prime Minister spoke of a prepaid card of 150 euros that has to do with trying on key points, where young people are involved, especially during summer months, in travel, entertainment and holidays, that is to say, in visiting a museum, a cinema, in being able to enjoy their holidays. To give this incentive too, if you want, and this right, and at the same time to go even further, do you consider it unjust? Do you think it's bribery? Really? Is it bribery in America? The state of New York that's happening is bribery? At top American universities is bribery? Is it bribery in Israel? Is it bribery in Serbia? Is it bribery in Russia? Is Hong Kong a bribery? Is it bribery in France? Excuse me, a young man is given a chance. Let young people judge it. I hope that we will also have in the next elections, whenever they come, and another new blood in Parliament, there will be other people to express themselves. But you have not let them express themselves. You all want to smoke what we believe. The evidence I had from yesterday to today was that young people booked nine thousand appointments a day to be vaccinated and now eighteen and a half dates a day. It's not creative, it's just mathematics. What can we do? These are the evidence. Do you want them to applaud or disapprove? Let them see. Young people think this has anything to contribute to? I think he has something to contribute to. I think that the rest of the countries do well, and in so far as such an effort is concerned it is plus. Today I have seen the same thing about the government's announcements on the rights of vaccinated persons. I do not believe that these are privileges. Excuse me, the expression and the term and I do not embrace it for the rights of vaccinated persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u128	If it's wrong not to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u129	I did not see the Prime Minister or Government using this term. On the contrary, I think it is legitimate and reasonable, as I have told you, to move to degrees of freedom. Do you want our fellow citizens to stay in their homes forever? Can anyone have this socially and mentally or professionally? Oh, no. So, on the basis of health rules and, above all, public health, we are moving forward - step by step and give more freedom. Not even the obligation, the choice. Do they all have to be vaccinated? We have had a very serious campaign, now we are specifically upgrading it for young people to be vaccinated. Do you think there's a little bit of the number that's gone to be vaccinated? Really? I'll get your own statements again when we've vaccinated everyone and all fifty sanitary a day at the beginning. You said we'd never be able to inoculate anyone in Greece. You said that there are no vaccines and that they won't come, but anyway, because they're sober grapes, I leave that behind. You went out and said various scientists - who are also judged in public speech - that we will never manage to get ten thousand vaccinations a day. Then when we caught the ten thousand you said we wouldn't make twenty thousand, thirty thousand. We went to the forty thousand, fifty thousand, sixty thousand, seventy thousand, eighty thousand, and in the last one and a half months we've been doing over a hundred thousand vaccinations a day. You said we would never implement our commitment to a thousand hundred vaccination centres. We've got a thousand five hundred. You said that vaccination areas are not in line and we have health centers, hospitals and mega centers that all Greek citizens are happy. They go over there, they vacate, they respect them and they go and say, "Look to see the Greek public with dignity at last treats us." We've reached over eight million vaccinations. We have a multitude of vaccines. And you want to make serious criticism of the vaccination, and you think you're gonna be heard somewhere? But it is no coincidence that you have repeatedly chosen to beat the government for two years for the pandemic, which I think should not be the case. It is not happening by everyone, in the same terms, tone, style and measure, but I told you that it was and is and will be a patriotic national effort. That is why your opposition is not successful, because you chose the most sacred there is, the protection of public health and of human life, to play micropolitically. And the Greek society returns to you like this. Both to us and to doctors, nurses, bankers, cleaners and all health fighters - first and foremost, above all to the National Health System and then to all other parts of health - pays it completely differently by 70%, 80% and 90%. So, to close, Madam President, because I do not need any more time, listen: we have a summer in front of us with data that test the scientific community worldwide. You see that there are other countries where mutations have already been dominated. There was a lot of talk in us about the mutations. The rules are those of public health. We've made the best effort. We are always open to proposals, so that we can improve and offer even better health effects. There are other aspects of this, such as the economy, social life, health stores, tourism and so on. We will support and help all these groups in the best possible way, and we will not forget that we are still in a pandemic, that it is of course a huge discovery of vaccines, that we want to be vaccinated as much as the population is doing - and we seek this without any doubt - and it is legitimate that common sense approves. Can I tell you something? That is why I can hear the criticism. What about the zeroing or feeling created every time I come to the Greek Parliament to defend a bill while accepting this Greek society and going hand in hand with it? We didn't move a finger or tell anyone more things than what is actually happening. It's a huge battle, a huge effort. Some of you want to communicate with the pandemic in other wavelengths. It's your right. But you'll know what's going on out there. The bill is important. Of course, we are voting for it and we are asking everyone to vote for it. And I repeat for as long as it takes, as many months as it takes, and care for what it exists. We will do everything possible to protect and support our fellow citizens, the Prime Minister, the Government, the public officials, the National Health System, private hospitals, military hospitals, our scientists, all who are involved, without a party criterion, without a diaphragm of "who is ours or yours" and, on the contrary, in a national effort that has the common good, public health and the salvation of human lives. That is why she is virtuous, and that is why we will support her to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u131	Madam President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u132	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u133	Minister, I do not know whether the amendments of the Ministry of Health will be presented separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u134	... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u135	Good. Then I'll ask Mr. Contozamani. Allow me now to speak briefly. Obviously, no one wants the world to sit in his house closed until the whole society is vaccinated. And obviously, we must go to a gradual relaunch of all the critical areas of economic and social life. But this must be done with the highest possible sanitary standards, with the highest possible safety barriers. That is our main criticism. I think that at a time when the pandemic is rekindled due to the mutations, the alarm in Europe, of great concern internationally, decisions of major tourist countries that are competitive with us to close their borders, further barriers to the entry of tourists from regions currently facing pandemic and the Delta mutation, we are moving in the opposite direction. We take protective measures, like the mask, or it feels like we're done with them. We are also making a significant change in the safety rules, i.e. replacing molecular tests on border control, border controls, entry gates with rapid test, which we know are less sensitive than molecular ones. So, like last year, the signal is still wrong: we have opened up and are waiting for you, with reduced health insurance requirements, so that tourism can survive. We believe that, in order for tourism to survive, in order for this valuable economic activity to go well for our country and for our society, we must strengthen security standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. He has asked for the floor for a minute and the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Katrinis. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u137	Madam President, the Minister is obviously not tolerant of criticism. Because despite the fact that, as you said, Mr Minister, you have been very detailed on what we say, you have not referred to any of the points or points we have made. Secondly, the role of counter-population is to come and correct or believe that the proposals correct some of the government's omissions or uncertainties. However, each political party is considered to be all 15 months, seventeen months of pandemic, from its standpoint and the choices it has made as regards the management of a pandemic and its position in this Chamber. And you come after all this course and you move our fingers to zero, because we point to some things, and you know that we haven't reached the level we would like, despite the fact that we have said that the vaccination programme was going very well in the past period and now it has retreat. The measures you are announcing are contradictory and I have said so in my speech. On the one hand, there is certain that there will be prevalence of the Delta mutation and the World Health Organization recommends that we be a little more stubborn in the liberalisation of measures. On the other hand, we see the ministers of government - I am not talking about you - emptying other ministers, emptied of members of the committee of infectious societies, sharing their disagreements so that we can go to more relaxing measures and passing a climate of optimism as if the economy were to be stimulated. Here, then, the government must understand that it cannot stand on two boats. We must ensure that at the moment and in the face of the Delta-type mutation, which seems to dominate and cause problems, the health system is shielded. We, Minister, have disagreements. And we believe that today's bill does not solve these problems. Also, as far as vaccination is concerned, I think the placement was clear. We have said from the outset that we are in favour of vaccination. We're just hampering those who disagree. However, the Government or the New Democracy do not use individual cases to justify its own weaknesses and failures and oligopoly in this whole programme. We would also like to see a much higher rate, much greater rate of vaccinated, much safer, and to achieve the 70% immunity wall at the end of August. Here we are going to contribute positively to achieving the goal, but not to move our fingers, because we disagree with some things or to highlight different perceptions and approaches to this issue. And to God, do not continue this with the extensions on matters for which I think you should have solved them long ago by using the digital state, which you so easily formulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our national benefactors have always been charitable and pioneers in the development of the modern Greek state. With deep love for homeland and vision, in order for Greece to become a modern, developed country, these people have made a decisive contribution in many areas, such as education, health, culture and many other areas. The institution "Stavros Niarchos" continues this tradition of the great national benefactors. Nowadays the area of public health has been tested as much as ever in the recent past. The government has dealt with pandemic in both its health and economic terms with progressive, targeted measures. The National Health System did not collapse and was further strengthened. The National Vaccine Program was also well organized. The large vaccination centres set up operate exemplaryly. At this juncture, the implementation of the donations of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation in the field of health is a great investment. With today's bill we have the ratification of the revision of two conventions: The first concerns the construction of the new General Hospital of Komotini. This amendment also increases the budget of the project up to EUR 102 million. It also adds, among other things, a complex of magnetic tomograph, breast division, cardiovascular complex, two additional surgical rooms and more. The second amendment was deemed necessary because it complements shortcomings in critical areas such as child mental health. In particular, it was agreed to finance a five-year scientific programme to support the mental health sector of children and adolescents, to rebuild and strengthen equipment at the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital and to study, construction and equipment of two new buildings at Attica Hospital. The following chapters of the bill contain provisions of the Ministry of Health, extensions of provisions adopted to address the consequences of the pandemic, as well as arrangements for EEA matters. Among these, we have: The increase in the age limit by two years for assisted reproduction, a very important measure that enables more women, more couples who wish to become parents. The age limit for the candidate mother is at 50 years. The proposed regulation goes up to fifty-two. The possibility of setting up primary health care services and public-private institutions. Establishment of a Committee for the Evaluation and Compensation of Medicinal Products. The staffing of the mental health structures of the ESS with qualified nurses in nursing mental health. The extension of EGE doctors' contracts serving under fixed-term work contracts, as well as work contracts for health professionals and administrative staff up to 30-9-2021. The extension of the contracts of the National Blood Center for the supply of the necessary blood control equipment. It should be noted here that with the outbreak of the pandemic it was added to the work of the National Center for Blood and the carrying out of COVID tests, which significantly burdened the human potential, and increased the needs for reagents and therefore equipment. They deal with issues of family doctors’ compensation and extend the relevant contracts up to 30 September 2021, so that they continue to carry out their duties without obstacles. It is planned that large vaccination centres and administrative staff should be deployed. The period of employment of private doctors in public hospitals is extended to cover emergencies. The contracts of primary health care structures with private laboratories are therefore extended to cover without delay the increased needs that exist over a year and a half. Other regulations, such as health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups, the provision of EGE staff to special infections units, the compensation of voluntary or forced staff made available by the private sector to meet public health needs, the re-issuance of prescriptions, the opinion of the patient years. It is intended to be possible to stay in the service until 31/12-2021 doctors who have completed the sixty-seventh year of their age. We also have the chapter regulating the issues of the EEA and the very important provisions, and that is what we have to say, Minister, about the claw back and rebate debts created in 2020 due to the consequences of the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister presented an important initiative in the context of measures to encourage vaccination, the freedom card for our young people from eighteen to twenty-five years old that will be vaccinated. This prepaid card worth 150 euros will bring many benefits to the Greek economy. Over 100 million euros in tourism-related activities and culture. It is a symbolic provision for our young people who have stood up to maturity, perhaps unlike the most mature ageing of those who have been called to protect, in a period of their lives that they will not actually return. They sacrificed just these years of carelessness, freedom, contact with friends, travel, student life in amphitheatres and much more. It is not bribe, ladies and gentlemen, nor a vote, as many have tried to say, to denounce. It's a reward. Rewarding young people who were not particularly at risk were consistently and matured by other high-risk age groups who did not show. Today, however, the House is also asked to vote on the amendments. Important amendments such as the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, such as the amendment of the Ministry of Health providing for home vaccinations, strengthening of the ‘Blue Freedom’ programme, movement to high-capacity vaccination centres, carrying out COVID tests for freedom of movement within and outside Greece in view of the tourist season, regulations and amendments of the Ministry of Health concerning extensions up to 30 September for the supply of rapid test by the local government agencies I grade. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today's bill makes arrangements in the right direction in order to deal with a pandemic that the New Democracy Government has had with extraordinary but well-successful measures brought forward and dealt with every day. I think, therefore, that all the wings should be voted for both the bill and the amendments put forward by the relevant ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Haritou now has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. As congressman Rodopis I am particularly interested in the bill we are discussing, I think a great deal of it is about the institution "Stavros Niarchos". Ladies and gentlemen, every time you introduce amendments to basic Law 4564/2018 on the donation contract between Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State, I do not hide you that our concern is evident. However, this amendment we are debating today shows that there is mobility to implement the contract of construction of the new Komotini Hospital, and that is good, except that the completion of the project is shifting to the end of 2015, that is, about a year and a half behind the original design. It is undeniable, gentlemen, that the great donation of the institution, which includes, among other things, the construction of the new Komotini Hospital and the Paediatric of Thessaloniki, is an important contribution to the strengthening of public health structures, but it bears the signature of the government of SYRIZA. As you know, the basic agreement was reached as a result of the Ministry's commitment to the public health system at the time, and for the sake of the great donation of the institution that, after discussions, came closer to the needs of the ESS. This is how the decision was made to build the new Komotini Hospital, so that Rhodope society can look forward to a new modern hospital today. I am not at all sure, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that if you were to rule the place at that time, the great donation of the institution would have this positive ending to Rhodope. Because this donation has nothing to do with the public-private partnerships, which you, Minister, and the Prime Minister of the country are constantly repeating. In order not to think that I am exaggerating with your own intentions and if we really would have this positive development for the Komotini Hospital, I will remind you that only a few months after your election, you did not hide your obsessions, you proceeded to modify the basic contract with the institution and the arrangements of Law 4667/2020, you changed the original character of the hospital and a legal person governed by public law, you turned it into a legal person. You have caused, in particular, the justified reactions of health workers, hospital workers, local and self-government bodies. It was a time when the pandemic started. Just before you begin the hypocritical applause from the balconies and your good words about heroes with green and white dresses. We have tabled a specific amendment to you in the Supplementary Law of 4667/2020, just one year ago, to restore the status of the hospital as a legal person governed by public law, as was in the original contract with the institution ratified by Law 4564/2018. Unfortunately, you did not accept the amendment. But for us, it remains active today. In any case, gentlemen, we will be following a step forward - step by step - of building work at the new Komotini Hospital, with the aim of contributing to its faster completion. This is also the will of our local society. I come, gentlemen, to the provisions concerning the management of the pandemic. When you ask for an extension to the emergency provisions, there is no more confession of failure. Failure to respond effectively to the pandemic, but also to the shielding of the public health system. Image with the total number of cases exceeding four hundred twenty thousand, recorded almost thirteen thousand dead, only in a success story does not refer. Let us bear in mind that from the four hundred deaths that we had in early October 2020, unfortunately they will multiply over thirty once in the next few months. So today our country is sixth on the European continent and thirty-five internationally ranking the mortality rate. Are you questioning these, Minister? In vain you are trying to cultivate a climate of euphoria in relation to the course of vaccination. We are in the 20th second place in a total of thirty countries and we are remaining five percentage points from the European average, and given the decline in the rate of vaccination in our country. And you question that, gentlemen of the government? Therefore, instead of having targeted systematic scientific information to convince the skepticists, the skepticists, you have opened up the debate on forced vaccinations and at the same time began to share supposedly privileges as 'bares', thinking that you are not addressing citizens. What health committee, which experts have proposed the idea of giving a donation to young people who are vaccinated, as if they were a video game? Only conscientious experts could think of this, i.e. the EUR 150 on the pretext of vaccination. Who do you think, gentlemen, you're kidding? It's obvious that another is your unspeakable goal. But if you think that in this way you will wash out sins for the burdens accumulated in the new generation, then you have made a huge mistake. The twenty - five thousand young people who will leave you this year outside the universities will not give you any forgiveness. You will not be forgiven by the boys and girls who have left them unprotected in the status of the labour jungle on the market. None of this will relieve you of the new generation's memory of the authoritarian and humiliating way in which you deal with it. Gentlemen, instead of seriously planning and taking steps to speed up the vaccinations, instead of arming health structures, instead of strengthening the EGE with staff so that the controls on the gates of our country can proceed more quickly - I am referring to the point of entry to Lymphia in Rhodope, where car tails and visitors are formed, while the area expects a lot from road tourism - you instead of taking measures for all of this, seek cheap communication. We have a radically different health policy, gentlemen. Having incorporated, among other things, the pandemic experience, we have enrolled in the core of our programming positions the need for the brave reinforcement of the public health system, its staffing and the brave financial support of those who suffer within its structures. They are, moreover, the most crucial for providing universal health services with dignity to all those in need. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as if you did not understand anything about the pandemic, as if it hadn't been for a single day, are opening the debate on the privatisation of critical functions of the ESS with a lever for the famous public partnerships with the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Trying to codify positions on the part of the Opposition easily results that the component of the positioning of all MPs leads to the concept and direction and to the image that the National Health System has collapsed, that we have a complete failure to deal with the pandemic by the government and that everything around us is black and in complete failure. Really, is that the picture? What you say and describe in the Chamber in the morning about a bill that has a completely different direction and content is what society and citizens see? Are you talking outside with society? Are you talking to the citizens to see what they think? I am the last person to say that everything is perfect, because in something that is unprecedented, like this pandemic that is not only in our country, but on a global level, no one can claim or describe what is doing is perfect. The sure thing, however, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is that the initiatives taken by this government from the beginning of the pandemic until today have a positive sign and not a simple positive sign, but, at a comparison with the other European countries, we are at the highest level of crisis. So what do we say? What could anyone say about what you're saying? Misery, micro-participatory feasibility and micro-psy, because in politics we need national entrepreneurialism and you must be big-hearted in the sense of recognising the positive - which you have never done - and on the other hand, to be productive and creative in your duty, to put forward proposals. I have heard you, Mr Xanthi, not only today but in general. I note the positions of SYRIZA over the past few years and as Minister and as Parliamentary spokesman now, and unfortunately what you are saying other than contradictoryly is a confusing story, which shows that you are in a confusion, trying to articulate an opposition political speech and because you cannot, show around you something that does not exist. Everywhere shrapnels and you're actually isolated. The percentages and opinion polls and people's acceptance of your proposals show that. Let's put things in a row. What was done yesterday by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the announcement of the freedom card, or what was announced today by the Ministers of Gerapetritis and Georgiadis is something fragmentary, something cut off from the previous process? Is it something that we are invasive to present for communication reasons, as you say, why do we want to embrace the new generation or send a message to some specific people that we are 'we are next to you'? Politics is our attitude or is it clear for health reasons? When the crisis started in March 2020, you remember that the government took measures which were both rapid and with priority the country's health shield. I think that at that time for a period of time there has been a complete abundance on your part and I will admit that for a very short period of silence you consented. But, seeing as soon as this does not come to you politically, you have started a opposition position which was essentially an internal question between you who had neither the beginning nor the end. Party feasibility, contradictory messages, no suggestions. We ran the first time at a high speed and took measures unprecedented and unprecedented, which were rewarded all over the world. World economists and the European Commission itself congratulated the Greek Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the entire government for the support measures we have taken, but above all for the maintenance of jobs. Forty-one billion euros have been spent on supporting all workers and businesses, the economy as a whole. These are actually sizes, undoubted. Workers as a whole in the context of maintaining jobs give a positive signal to the government, recognise this effort. I'm talking to this world. On the other hand, companies, wherever you discuss the areas you are elected, only positively have to say about the support and initiatives taken by the government. Then you doubted that the vaccine would come out. We had invested as a government that the vaccine would come out very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u144	Who questioned it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u145	You challenged it here, Mr Xanthi, on the dates and deadlines we said it would come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u146	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u147	All MPs. So when he was questioned and the vaccine came out, the vaccination procedure began. Criticism and that. Is there anyone today except you who disputes that the vaccination process and the undertaking we've done as a government has not succeeded? The best of Europe. The world is talking about an exemplary function of all this vaccination process which has been and continues to date. Then you questioned with strong criticism in here - we were here, we lived - the self-tests. Destructive, "What you do with self-tests, will be regression, will jeopardise society". Yet it proved through thousands of cases that it was a very positive initiative from the government's point of view. Isn't that a reality? In every step we take you come and make a structurally destructive placement. And now we come and do this announcement, which is what he's trying to do? To motivate and allow some to choose in favor of the vaccine. With motive, but not with enforcement. Are you against this? So what is the bad thing that this 'free card' is motivating young people who are now seeing that at the level of vaccination rates - and now this vaccination category - will play a very important role in the face of autumn and mutations, the Delta mutation, which, as the World Health Organisation says, is the biggest risk at this time for the autumn? Do we have to be inactive? Do we have to stay with your hands crossed? Shouldn't the government take initiatives on this? And who at the end has this responsibility, the central responsibility for the procedure, at the end? It is the government's duty and duty to take measures, as it has taken from the outset, to make decisions, create incentives and facilitate the people who have been vaccinated. That is what the government has to do and it does so right, and I believe that also personally. I live and I am elected in an area, the Cyclades Prefecture, with small and large islands, with medium and small islands in which the initiative we have taken, the 'Blue Freedom', has achieved 90%. Many islands have been vaccinated, and 97%, Kimolos, for example, I was the day before yesterday. Milos is at very high rates, Kythnos, too many islands. But we're fighting. We are all fighting in both Cyclades and island Greece and throughout the country for the mutations that are before the gates. But the government does not remain inert. It mobilizes, facilitates and is very right that the decisions that you are currently making are extremely critical of wanting to show that everything is black around us. What we are taking as an incentive to young people, which is not something we are going to blur the image and close them for other reasons, politicians as you say, but purely for health reasons, because we know that at the moment young people of the age of eighteen to twenty-five are the people who are going on holiday tomorrow. They're the ones who get into the clubs. They are the ones who will move with a greater freedom and at night, they will be conspired more than any other age category, and we must not impose, even motivate, what you are criticising. Do you have any other suggestions? Do you have the suggestion that the amount is small and should be larger? I didn't hear that. Or is the amount large and should it be smaller? Or should it be something different? There to listen to the criticism. But you have reason to believe that this should not be done. What was it supposed to be? A proposal from SYRIZA has not been heard. Are you against facilitating vaccinated persons? Since this morning you have been criticising this, in the positions of the two Ministers. Are you against giving a motive, that motive, the children eighteen to twenty-five years to be vaccinated? That is the question, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, which you are deliberately not answering, but only criticism of the implied political intentions that do not exist, because we have shown that our priority is health shielding. The second issue concerning the bill is a criticism that is unjustified. We recognized that this contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is a contract that comes from the time yours. Is this a contract that changes what you signed at the time? Of course not. It is coming and expanding the scope of the interventions with resources from the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. The government comes in and quite rightly processes this contract and strengthens the Komotini Hospital, the Kefalonia Hospital, the "Attiki" Hospital, the "Pedon Hospital - "Agia Sophia". It comes and stimulates the specialization of intensive therapy and mental illness with nurses. Are you against these? If you're not against it, why the critique? Why'represent' rather than 'yes' as it should be in a reasonable, responsible attitude of the Officerial Response even to it? I have to pay tribute, Mr Minister, to the fact that I have the opportunity for the first time to speak about a bill from the Ministry of Health - congratulations and a great thank you to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for this very important offer over time in favour of the national health system. To say again the bravo to the nurses, to the doctors in our country who gave and continue to give this difficult and very important struggle to safeguard the health of all Greeks. Before I finish, I would like to make a special reference to local health policy. The issues relating to health, hospitals and health centers in island Greece are a timeless problem which has nothing to do with the legislative initiatives taken over time by the parties but with a pathogen that has to do with the absence of doctors' interest in joining the organic gaps when and whenever notices become. I have to acknowledge, with the accumulated experience of the House of Representatives since 2007, that both the Government of Constantine Karamanlis and the Antonis Samaras Government and the Tsipras Government have taken initiatives for institutional and economic incentives, which unfortunately have not produced. I am very pleased to hear, Minister, that you are preparing a bill which will be a new draft of incentives for institutional and economic in particular for the island country. It is something, Minister, that I am addressing you now - which everyone expects. The government's announcement through the Ministry of Health's political leadership for this bill makes us all look forward to coming as soon as possible. We need it. We must look very seriously, rightly and on a different basis, at institutional and economic incentives, because this time we have no room for failure. Not that the situation in the health centres and hospitals of our island is dramatic, but I would say that it is at a good level, but, unfortunately, while we could go even further, it is not the institutions and finances that act as magnets for medical and nursing staff to respond to the demands and demands of the state. With the certainty and certainty that this bill, when and whenever it comes, will be a bill that will put an end to this time-consciousness, I close my position, making the appeal to the side of the opposition at least, regardless of whether this bill will pass by majority votes, to show a responsibility and a seriousness that the political system needs. I call on such bills that at the end of the day are bills of extension of yours which concern the contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which are coming to strengthen the national health system, to have your positive acceptance. This requires the country's political system and democracy itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now we go to the third circle of speakers with a natural presence or with Webex, and Mrs. Chapter from New Democracy has the floor. Come on, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, unfortunately, donations were either too late or on paper. Such a case is also the health initiative of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It is an initiative which, you will allow me to say, is one of the most important to serve the public interest. It is a programme that reaches 400m euros, from which we will all benefit. The incorporation of new projects provided for the financing of the study on the construction and equipment of two new buildings on the General University Hospital of Attica, in order to serve the hospital’s needs in inventing doctors' beds, as well as the needs of setting up a Medical Units Coordination Centre. Also, the benefit of these hospitals in Sparta, Thessaloniki and Komotini will be huge for thousands of our fellow citizens. With the contract being ratified, we increase the budgeted value of the project of the new General Hospital of Komotini. We strengthen the project of the new Komotini Hospital by adding a complex of a magnetic tomography, a breast imaging section, a cardiovascular complex, a c camera complex, two additional surgical halls and provisions for therapeutic exercise and rehabilitation. Furthermore, strengthening child and juvenile mental health services in Greece, through funding of a scientific programme and similar structures to strengthen the mental health sector of children and adolescents in Greece, can now be implemented. A five-year scientific programme, including training for mental health professionals to strengthen the mental health sector of children and adolescents in the country, and to upgrade the quality of the care provided. We will be able to give children and adolescents access to mental health services even in the most remote areas of the country. The "Pedon - Agia Sophia" Hospital, which will house this program, will be renovated and its main areas will be rebuilt. The necessary equipment will be provided for the existing building to fulfil these objectives and the reconstruction is financed for the operation of the National Reference Centre for Mental Health. The purpose of the Government and the Foundation is to provide personalised support for their children and their families and to establish a national network of mental health professionals. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation has taken the initiative since 2017, i.e. SYRIZA and the ratification of the donation took place in 2018, i.e. again on SYRIZA. Since then, however, little has been done in practice, as has other private donations to the state, which in SYRIZA have been going too far, when they progressed. And that is because the previous government was identified by the statism and denial of private initiative. The real question is: Do we want or do we not want private individuals to contribute to the public interest? Do we encourage private initiative or not? The answer is given by everyone's political choices. How the previous government faced the private initiative, we saw it in previous years. Our policy is completely different. Not only are we not blocking, but we are speeding up procedures. Unlock the donations, taking all the necessary measures to implement them. Thus, in the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, we moved rapidly and in months we proceeded studies and environmental licensing for the road network at the Komotini Hospital. We did the same for the other two hospitals. We, ladies and gentlemen, want the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to end up in a modern hospital, a hospital that operates in a flexible way and is constantly being upgraded. Awareness is the service of citizens' needs and the provision of a high level of patient health and care services. We are, in fact, interested in providing the best health services to all. The self-evident thing, however, must be said and heard, is that New Democracy is a government of all Greeks. Her works and days will leave the positive print to our place and the benefits of the actions of this government will be fruited by all Greeks, all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, health, the highest good for every human being is a public good. Public good, however, does not mean state good. Public good means good that all citizens are entitled to and able to access. This is our priority. We are legislating for everyone and above all for our weakest fellow citizens. For those who cannot afford to pay private health services. For those who need the public health system more, what we received it was not in the best situation that could, with serious shortages in staff and infrastructure. This situation has changed and, in the midst of pandemic, we continue to change it, away from ideology and micropolicy and, of course, where individuals can contribute, there is no reason why they cannot do so. The state must make it easier for them as well as encourage them. Now is the opportunity to put public health on a new, modern, efficient and measurable quality basis with the participation and assistance of all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Marcou has the floor now, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no need to prove the panic that the government finds out from the fact that the Parliamentary spokesman has wasted 80% of his speech to oppose SYRIZA and to reverse SYRIZA's arguments and not to develop and explain their own views more to us. It's not just now, of course. We have recently noticed this. In fact, the government is the opposition. So we are talking about the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. My previous colleague rightly put it that she started in the government of SYRIZA. Do you know why it started? Because donors trusted, my colleague, the SYRIZA government. Because donors trusted the good administration the SYRIZA government did. At the moment when the New Democracy Government even eats the knobs, no de novo sponsor would appear to start a deal like this. That's exactly why. And indeed, it is a sponsorship, which we are open to our eyes, because, in fact, the efforts, as the government has heard about the private-sector partnership and state in these hospitals, I feel that they will never leave the mind of the rulers. Here we go, and we'll see. Let us now come to a few more general issues. Why do we disagree and whine, Mr Brutsi, on the 150 euros? Because you're giving an aesthetic and a practice of extracting everything. Not only do you extract and try to extract everyone, but at the same time you're trying to invoice consciences. You're extracting media. You're trying to take the young people out now. You are honouring consciences with your health, education, culture, everywhere. You give a message that everything is bought. You know what? Response and youth has already been shown by thousands of jokes flooding from yesterday on the Internet. And you know what? When the jokes start, then the road doesn't come back. We are now coming to see both your efforts and the situation. To deal with, because it's a matter of health. That is why we should give this measure - something Mr Brutsis has said - to this effect. One in three elderly people, Mr. Brutsi, have not been vaccinated. And the elderly are the vulnerable groups, which with morbidity are in danger of dying. And the elderly died. Why did you not choose to give any incentive to the elderly so that, in fact, you can help a group susceptible to the health problem? Why? Because your popular percentage of young people under forty years of age is tragic. That's why. And that's why you wanted to buy. And let's see the numbers, 'cause you want to talk a little bit seriously. ECDC data yesterday or the previous day: Age of vaccinated seventeen to seventy-nine, fourteenth position. Age of sixty to sixty-eighth position. Age of vaccinated fifty to fifty nine, eighth position. Where's the excellent situation? Nowhere! And can we talk seriously again? We need two months until September. At the moment, one of our main allies against pandemic is heat. In September, it's going to be hot. It is well known that two major players played a key role: public transport and schools. Have you seen any initiative taken to keep us from coming to the same situation? From now on, at the end of June, we tell you: Take action in public transport and in schools. Sapphires you took both in Athens and Thessaloniki, which is not available and in teaching rooms you do not care to increase them. You'll be responsible. We are now going through some aspects of the amendments and I shall refer to three specific, assisted reproductions, pharmacists and EEAS. For assisted reproduction we increased the year to fifty two for them. You abolished the Helped Reproduction Commission that existed under brilliant scientists the day after it checked in a private centre where it had problems with its operation and whose owner is part of the occupants! Mr. Kojamani, this is what you're doing at the Ministry. Clients and make without excellence. And when the time comes and you will proceed from this ministry and the next Minister of SYRIZA will come pick up from you, know there will be an agenda. Now let's go to the next one, to the pharmacists. The provision establishes that it is incompatible with the representatives of the board of directors of pharmaceutical associations as a member of the Board of Directors of the cooperative pharmacists. The provision is manifestly unconstitutional - the principle of equality - as it does not include such incompatible with the respective pharmacopoeia owners. In other words, while the traded pharmacist is incompatible with the membership of the Pharmacopoeia Association, the private pharmacist, who is also involved in a private storage scheme, does not have such an incompatibility. It's a photo, and you know what you're photographing? You photograph the President of the Pharmacy Club of Patras, who has been sad at you lately and who is yours. From now on, from this step I say to him: Be careful! Without a dialogue the President of the Pharmaceutical Association of Patras speaks of two serious personalities. Apart from creating serious problems for the future functioning of the drug cooperative, it will lead the government to two serious personalities. It will deprive the right to be elected to five and a half thousand pharmacists who would probably like to be active in both pharmaceutical associations, trade unions and cooperatives. Secondly, it discriminates against cooperative status. Let's watch out! I conclude by providing the possibilities for the private initiative in the EEAS. Water is a world good, and this is an estate of society. We never had any mention of private entry into the EEAS, despite the pressures. This is an attempt to privatize through the back door. It is not a one-way option to privatise through PPP. The choice of the Government is not linked to the negotiability of the negotiation of “EUDAP S.A.” and “EUDAP S.A.” and in any case the State is obliged to cost the raw water and apply the water pricing and pricing system. With these few thanks for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, too. Now Mr Chryssomalis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. I heard the Member from the SYRIZA's side about the motive the government gave young people to say it's a joke. Of course the most beautiful joke I heard him say in his speech, that the donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation began on SYRIZA because it was SYRIZA he trusted the Foundation for good administration and that's why they decided to do the donation. Honestly it was the nicest joke I ever heard! You closed the banks, brought capital control, charged the national economy with 200 billion, but you were the ones who trusted donors to do the donation! Honestly, are you saying that and you don't understand that they're laughing out with what you're saying? Is that possible? Did they trust the "yes" of the referendum make it "no"? The ones who were calling the election and what else did they post-election? The ones who would abolish the memorandum and bring back new memoirs? Do you think the world has no memory and you come and you say these things over here? I really have been following the meeting since the morning, and I have been attending, because I am also in the Committee on Social Affairs, the way you have chosen to fight against the pandemic. I think you are trying to copy the opposition you made in 2012-2015. "I'll see you. We're feeding everything on everyone. They hear everything and everyone will pinch what they want. So it was your election in 2015, when I listened to society saying: "One of the fifty that Tsipras says to do, we'll be fine." He didn't do any of that, of course. You have been judged as government and now you are even more severely opposed, because you have not put your mind on it, and that is reflected in the polls that are constantly falling the SYRIZA rate. It is not my problem, but I say it to understand that society is no longer pinching. The pandemic started and you came - logically - on your left agenda and said: Recruit, four thousand people. We made seven thousand recruitments at first, and you said we'd still do fifteen thousand more. You started this meaningless auction. Then, what the government did, you were the only opposition to Europe that did not say anything positive and tried to put on a trip. We started to say slowly that we are going out of the pandemic and the vaccines are coming and your leader, Mr. Tsipras, said we're talking about a vaccine that hasn't been present yet. The vaccines came later and you said that the patent should be given. When you understood that this was not the case, you began to say that the vaccinations would not be enough because we have to do twenty-five thousand vaccinations a day. Now we've been over 100 thousand vaccinations a day! You financially approached the topic by saying: 'Give all the money from the beginning'. Can you imagine the government would have done that when we didn't know how much it would have to keep a pandemic? Until now, the government has continued to support accusations that have a problem and is doing so because it has done just a good administration. He didn't give all the money from the beginning because he didn't have a horizon when this situation would end and so he would come to a certain point of time "surgery" where there was a need and he managed not to collapse any of our fellow citizens, so no one would stay behind. And it still keeps strengthening and strengthening. I'm on my way to the vaccinations. You know that we need to catch what we call immunity so that we can now operate in normality. I have no idea whether you are in favour of or against vaccinations or some of your strains are against and some others are in favour of petting the ears and the anembolics. Isn't that a vote of an unscrupulous kind instead of putting public health above all? You say "purchase" the bonus granted to young people as a reward, if you like, because it is the only category of people, the eighteen - twenty - five, which failed to get any special support in the crisis when all of our fellow citizens, as far as they could, were supported. Evidently they are ages that are not usually in production to get returned to get TPIX or to be employees to be suspended. It is precisely now because, now, it is a highly kinetic category - you know, young people have a great deal of movement - that will be given as a bonus, and as an indirect support in the summer for their theatre, for their films, for a journey. I don't understand your criticism. You're passing it. Okay. Do you think it shouldn't be given? Say it clearly, 'no, it shouldn't be given'. I thought you would say your classic left approach: 'A little 150 euros, you had to give it more'. I would hear that as criticism, because you do it often. But now you have not taken a clear position. Our parliamentary representative has also told you. Take a clean seat. "Yes, that's right" or "We'd like to be given above" or "We'd like to see it given." We want clean words and no extractions. What demolition or vote or a takeover of consciences? I am sorry, do not be confused, we are not on the eve of the European elections that, instead of giving the aid at the end of the year, you have given it a stay of the European elections - the 400 euros - and if you do not raise the percentage in the European elections at all. And you remember how the world turned your back on you, because he realized that this was a demolition. We don't have elections, nor will we soon have been in the context and, if you like, a reward to that age for the year that passed, which was a difficult year for that age. Mr. Xanthos says we're suddenly opening and we shouldn't be opening, we should see if the mutation comes, etc. Says who? SYRIZA's Health Department. And I would like here to stress your responsible attitude in general over the last few years. But don't forget that it was SYRIZA himself who, a few months ago, when the second wave came in, was indirectly mobilizing for marching for Koufantina, who you remember the incidents were made at the time. So what do I mean? Keep a consistent attitude and don't say one day, the next day. People get it. As far as the bill is concerned, the donation actually started by you. They are, I think, positive about the provisions of the Komotini, about the hospital and about mental health structures. No one disagrees. I think - you said it yourself - that many of them agree with you and you will vote for it. I wish, in general, that your attitude would be such that you would welcome them. The people would also welcome your opposition attitude. Not that it's my thing, but honestly get into the big question. And the big question right now is as fast as we can get the immunity rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Mikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a common place. Undoubtedly, the great donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation by building two hospitals and strengthening the operations of the EKAB is a very important investment, of course, in the direction of the qualitative upgrading of the public health services provided. However, on this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make two political points as there are qualitative conclusions that need to be clarified. And I think that the debate in committee and in plenary is one of the evils. So today's ratification - and to repeat it again to Mr Chrysomalis, because the repetition is a mother of learning - of the institution is the result, it is the result of the negotiation of the SYRIZA leadership of the Ministry of Health with the institution in the period 2017-2018. That is, today, the original agreement. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And why, Mr. Chrysomalis, am I stressing this element? Because it was the credibility of the then leadership, it was the commitment and faith to the potential of the public health system, it was the political choice to strengthen the public and free character that created these very conditions of confidence and solvency to lead the institution to this very important decision. The second point concerns the nature of the donation. So, with an obvious feasibility and unprecedented tension, the government is trying to convince that such donations will also be the permanent results of public-private partnerships in the field of public health that it promotes as tomorrow's profile of the National Health System. This is, obviously, an obvious distortion, a conscious alteration in the actual content of the donation. The truth is that the foundation puts the money on the structure, but there is no other requirement for the operation of the projects from there. The projects after completion will be owned by the Greek State. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the second part of today's debate on provisions for the management of the pandemic. I cannot fail to point out a lasting political paradox that goes through and beyond articles giving a three-month extension to exceptional provisions for the management of the pandemic. It is, therefore, politically paradoxical, Mr Kontozamanis, that the government has for some time been having all those institutional weapons to deal with pandemic, without any time-consuming procedures, and that it has nevertheless failed to manage this exceptional situation. It is paradoxical that despite vaccines, despite the existence of new hopeful therapeutic protocols that apply several countries successfully, despite the more protracted lockdown applied in relation to the rest of Europe, Greece is in the 31st internationally and 6th in Europe in terms of the mortality rate - that is, deaths to cases - cumulatively since the pandemic began. It is ironic and, at the same time, paradoxical when, for example, France decides to allocate free molecular tests to its citizens, but also to tourists who choose it as a destination, the government is almost obsessed with epidemiological surveillance with reduced self-esteem. In other words, the image of dispersion is left to an examination with serious reservations from the scientific community about its reliability, monitoring is now dependent on the individual responsibility of each citizen, and it will also be a product of uncontrolled disposal by shops which, of course, have nothing to do with the area of health. And then the hotel owners wonder on the islands why our country does not enter the "green" list from countries that are traditional tanks for Greek tourism. And I come now, Minister, to the great paradox. They triumph government officials for the course of the vaccination program when according to ECDC data Greece has not fully vaccinated in 28.3% of its adult population, but has fallen short of first dose vaccination throughout the adult population. It is therefore in the 22nd place in a total of thirty countries. So when one in three elderly people has not been vaccinated, when there is no clear picture of the coverage of vulnerable groups with serious illnesses, when there is no scientific documentation and information to respond convincingly to the growing distrust and reluctance of citizens, the government chooses to open up the debate on compulsoryity, on privileges, on exclusions from social activities, as if the imposition and creation of citizens of two and three speeds were going to convince them once the world still has no response because it has lived through total absurdity for one and a half years. Turn it all off with three hundred cases every day and open it all in two and a half thousand. Do you know why you've had this? Because you never projected the health part of the pandemic. Only what measures are you going through? And when you saw the pitiful results, then you put it into individual responsibility, and I will reply to Mr Chrysomallis clearly - the vulgarity and the mercifulness of 150 euros for young people. You know, I like very much that you're trying to approach the new generation in terms of influencer and social media. So since you made give away the 150 euros, why don't you make a give away and no job and no insurance contributions to young people? However, the acquisition of young people, the communication management of the pandemic are simple signs of the way you think. The revelations, the inauguration - if you wish, Mr Minister - of the core of your reasoning were carried out just last week in the Standing Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament by the well-known Members of the House, when a letter from a Volos citizen complaining to the staff of the hospital during his hospital, instead of being notified to the hospital's institutions, in order to investigate the facts as to his validity, was read in the House by him so that they could then be drawn, again, from him, populist conclusions, that allegedly on the negative picture that the hospital can present at a certain point of time, it is the lack of assessment or that it is the result of the bad nursing staff. This is not an accidental act. This is finally the revelation of a strategic choice by the government for two years now: the constant undermining of the National Health System, the constant depreciation of its staff, so that you can come and say at the end that there is no quality for the services provided and therefore - by the private sector - come here to become partnerships. This is the design, this is your vulgarity and I am very sorry for what has been happening in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u157	Madam President, until it comes up to answer, why was it mentioned twice - three times to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u158	Uh, no, I don't think now there's a reason to answer that. You said what you said, and he answered what you said. We're not having a conversation. We've said that before. He didn't attack personally. Answer what you said. It's not a conversation now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u159	He referred to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u160	He didn't insult you, he wasn't on personal grounds, to take the floor. You know that. You know the Rules of Procedure, we don't open a debate. You said, he said, too, and he answered what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u161	But you are giving the floor to other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u162	Please. Never say that again. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u163	But that's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u164	That's not the case at all. It's not true! And I'm surprised you're saying that. Honestly, I'm surprised! Come on, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today we agree on two things that I understood by following the debate whether I was in Athens or outside, because I was watching it from television and the Internet. It is a very interesting debate, without any doubt, on a very big issue and I am pleased to see that we agree on private donations to the health sector in general. Let us not forget that we are living in a country which was created by nothing and thanks to the national benefactors it has managed to stand on its feet for the very difficult years since the 1921 liberation. And now we need them. After the great, fierce economic crisis that we have experienced over the last ten years, we need these Greeks who have been distinguished and have the opportunity to contribute to strengthening the public sector and the country as a whole. The second thing we agree on - and I think that we may have some minor disagreements there, but I think that basically we agree - is that we need and agree on a strong RSH, a strong public health system, which we in the New Democracy also respect very much. That is why we honor doctors and nurses who in the past twenty months have exaggerated themselves and it is for us the most important thing the country has to present at this time in the middle of a pandemic. There were, of course, many things, as far as I can see, that SYRIZA, particularly - and the opposition - did not want to agree. It is clear that it does not agree with the policy of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis in dealing with the pandemic. Now, why does Opposition do this? I'm not sure I understand. I guess she thinks she could gain partition benefits from this attitude. I personally do not agree with her and I do not agree because I believe that the pandemic issue is not an opposition. We have a lot of issues to discuss, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, many issues with which we will disagree - and we will do very well - as it was working, as was the law on subsidiary insurance - which I am sure we will disagree strongly - as we have already disagreed on the university asylum, on the university police, on the changes that will take place in schools. On all these issues which are both ideological and political in nature to disagree as much as you want and to say our views and possibly if we can find a common section on some things, why not? But the pandemic issue is not available. The subject of pandemic is very serious. It is neither about New Democracy, nor Kyriakos Mitsotakis, nor Kontozamanis, nor Kikilia, nor me, nor you. It's all about us. It concerns all Greeks and the whole world, the whole of mankind. I heard some people say we're proud of the pandemic. When was the pandemic said to be over? Have we said the pandemic's over? How is it possible to end a pandemic that does not depend on Greece and depends on the world as a whole? Is that possible? I also heard that Greece is on a worse footing than India, i.e. I heard terrible things said in here. Of course I have heard from many of the SYRIZA colleagues in particular that we are in panic. Honestly, tell me what panic a government and a Prime Minister may be, who two years after his election, two years after his election in the last poll, differs 16.4 from the Civic Opposition. This has never happened in the history of Greece. Never! In the two years when a government falls forward more than the actual result of the 2019 elections has never been! What panic is he in? Of course, the government is not in panic, but in very serious reflection, because the pandemic issue is very important and it is about the lives of all of us. Of course, I'd like us not to have the fourteen thousand dead we have today. I wish we didn't have them! Who wants it? And there was a dead man from the pandemic, too. But the government is doing everything possible to reduce this problem and it is doing so through the cooperation of many. It's not just a question of government. The vaccination programme, which went impeccably, is not just because of the government! To God! It is mainly because of the officials who, through their mental experience and their time lag, have made a great contribution to making this one of the greatest successes that the Greek state has achieved. Greece's vaccination programme - badly lies, because we know how the state works in Greece - is perhaps the greatest success of the Greek state in the last few decades, and that is why citizens are also calling for, for the majority of them, even compulsory vaccinations. Because they have understood most, with the exception of some, that vaccinations are the only instrument available to the country to deal with this terrible pandemic, which is indeed in the autumn, if it has not proceeded as the vaccination programme should - not with the responsibility of any government, but with the responsibility of those who do not want to be vaccinated for their own reasons - then we may indeed have a fourth wave of pandemic, as the World Health Organisation fears, for all the countries of the world and for all the countries of Europe. We hope that she will not come and hope that she will prevail, and all Greeks will do the vaccine to save their own lives and lives. But, from there on, we must be responsible when dealing with such difficult situations and the most responsible of all is to recommend to our fellow citizens that they do the vaccine. I cannot understand why you are trying to engulf the 150 euros given to young ages. Why do you see it? Incentives have been given to all countries in the world to vacate some. In the United States, the world's most capitalist country, even beers were given to get the other to be vaccinated. You'll tell me if anyone had to disagree, we had to be the liberals we don't want benefits. However, this is not a subsidy policy. It is a concrete, structured policy that addresses the problem at the moment, which is that vaccinations must go ahead. I would agree with what I have heard - by Mr Marcus - that other age groups might have to be motivated. Yeah, I have no objections. Incentives to complete vaccination should be given. That's the point. From this will Greece be a winner in the great battle of the pandemic which, of course, has not finished even I repeat, is not offered for party confrontation and cheap opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u166	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u167	I want once again from this House's Step to send and send a clear message as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. We are vaccinated for us, we are vaccinated for the people we love, we are vaccinated because solidarity and social responsibility are valueless. The EUR 150 prepaid card for young people up to twenty-five years old, unfortunately, is another communication fiasco of the government. It's devalued for the new generation. It's insulting to the new generation. It's decommissioning the process. Gentlemen of the government, finally stop approaching serious issues in terms only of communication. There is an undeniable reality, not because SYRIZA says so - a Progressive Alliance, but because it is seen by scientific bodies. We're not getting along with the vaccination. See what goals the Prime Minister put in time and quantity and see when we went through these points. See comparison with other countries. Did the pain catch you making a new generation policy? If you want to make a policy for the new generation don't make the eight-hour unpaid ten hours, don't pay them off, don't make them pay the supplementary insurance twice, one of the individual beads to get a pension when his time comes and the other is the cost of switching the budget, that's what my generation has to pay. Increase the minimum wage. Here's what's going on in the United States of America, here's what President Biden said. The President of the United States of America, Mr Contozamani, said: 'We are building the economy of the workers'. It conveys a debate where one says to him: 'We can't find workers' and answers: 'Pay them down'. Are you taking a lesson from this for the new generation? I see from last night when we presented our proposal for jobs, which we proposed to raise the minimum wage to EUR 800, people have started out now and say one 850, the other 900, the other 950, are making a number of jokes, etc. We are therefore proposing this. But I would like to remind you, Mr Brutsi, what you have proposed in the election. You said for every 1% growth we would have a 2% increase in the minimum wage. Not SYRIZA, Mr. Mitsotakis said that. You've obviously read the medium-term, which comes to the House tomorrow. What does the medium-term say? It says 3.6% growth in 2021, that is 7.2% increase in the minimum wage on the basis of what Mr Mitsotakis said, namely 696. And in the medium term, it says 6.1% growth, that is 12.2% increase on the basis of what Mr Mitsotakis said, namely a minimum wage of 786. So why Tsipras' 800 at a time when President Biden says: "Give money to the workers, build the workers' economy, increase the active demand for the economy not to sink" is populism, and what Mr Mitsotakis said to us in an election, Mr. Gikalaya, was not populism, was good and responsible? You're just two years of government and you've done nothing and changed the global economic model. Most of the right-wing governments in Europe have become centralised and you here insist neoliberal. And when we tell you what neoliberalism is, you say there is no neoliberalism. In any case, the interlayers and our weak fellow citizens are suffering. So come on, Mr Contozamanis, to see the real difficulties and the real challenges. Would you say a word and we'll talk about the hospital intensive care units that had 100% mortality? For the Greek people to understand what that means, it means that from those who entered alive no one came out. Mr. Kikilis, Mr. Kontozamani, told us when you had the administrations that the administrations would be evaluated every six months. Has an administration been evaluated? You scored them? Have you changed anyone? When you placed the administrations, Mr. Yannis Loverdos, Mr. Vorides told us from television: “And who should we put, the strangers? We'll have the party kids." But this is the time for the party children to manage pandemic and while the average mortality in intensive care units in Europe is 30%, 40%, 50%, 60% in intensive care units in Greece is 90%, 95%, 100%, and this costs citizens. Aren't you going to say a word about those who have been afflicted by the uniqueness of the ESS, cancer patients, heart disease, other illnesses? They mentioned, Mr. Contozamani, the private. Anyone who couldn't do his work in the public hospital, thousands of people, middle decks, borrowed and went to the private hospital. Citizens are afflicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u168	Do you have any evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u169	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u170	You can testify to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u171	Of course, I'll testify to you. You know very well that I have both evidence and connections, Mr. Kontozamanis. We're nothing to do with it. I'll testify to you. Talk to some doctor on the market, see what's going on. Yes, to convince you, yes to arguments, yes to the hegemony of scientific values and good reason, not to impose. And since Mrs. Keramea has come, I'd like to say one more thing. Mrs. Kyrame, will schools in 2021 open up with the same number of students who opened in 2020 and 2019? Are we gonna get a lesson from all this? At first we said, and we were quite surprised, we weren't expecting it. Then we said we didn't think it would last that long. But this is where it lasts. Shouldn't you do something, Minister, be fewer kids per class? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for half a minute, Madam President. Shouldn't we do something about public transport? The others went and bought buses, which had no air condition. The people obviously hadn't calculated summer in Greece. How can summer come to Greece? Do we have every summer in Greece every year? What can we do with air condition in public transport? The same is true of subway trains and all these tragic situations that we have been going for a third year. I'll make two remarks. I want to say it from a parliamentary step. We've put our backs on, and we're always gonna put our backs on, and we're not having a micro-partial confrontation. At first, we were at 'Home In', always placed with positive proposals. It's disgusting, it's petty, and it's petty for the Prime Minister to come by this Stepma and say we didn't put back, because you're constantly looking for an enemy, and when you don't find an enemy, you're building him. I would like to put the amendment with the EEAS. It became the New Democracy, increasing the administrative wages to get the well-deserved blue children twice as many and three times the wages that they received, who were placed on SYRIZA. It didn't open no no no no no no Where this practice has been applied in the world, it has increased the tariffs for consumption and in many cases it has undermined the quality of the distributed good. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] So we invite you to see the international experience. What you are proposing is an antiquated, detested neoliberalism for forty years. Water, energy and other basic infrastructures are goods, and as such they must be protected and we had tabled and predicted for constitutional welfare. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Kerameos, has the floor in order to put her name on the amendment under a general number of 962 and a specialist number of 156. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening! Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise, I will be very brief. We have tabled an amendment providing for certain arrangements, for example concerning the term of teachers in standards and experimental schools, arrangements on how their term of office is extended and so on, on how they return to their placement and others, and arrangements on the competence of universities to draw up a strategic plan for academic development - this is a regulation on the appropriate condition of the NRP - also arrangements on the replacement of officials seconded to the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and other arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u176	You want to ask, Mr Marcus, the Minister on the amendment, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u177	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u178	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u179	Madam Minister, good evening. Here in Article 2 in the Strategic Planning Unit you say in paragraph 3.f: ‘The Strategic Planning Unit shall prepare studies to support academic development and achieve the objectives of the Foundation or recommend their award’, and, I suppose, 'third parties'. What do you mean 'third parties'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u180	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Colleague, I reserve to see it thoroughly and to answer it to you. In any case, there is provision for universities to cooperate and to entrust studies to third parties. That is what is planned anyway, but I reserve it to see it thoroughly and to answer it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u182	We continue with the list of speakers with Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I would like the floor for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Kontozamanis wants the floor for legal improvements if I'm not wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u185	Yes, Mr. President, to share.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u186	In order to make it easier for colleagues. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u187	I have some legislative improvements, I'll submit them to the Minutes for ease.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u188	I would also like to mention, on the occasion of Mrs Kerameos, that we accept the Ministerial Amendments with a general number and with a specific number of 957/151, 958/152, 959/153, 960/154, 961/155, 962/156 and 963/157 respectively. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Minister. And there's the floor for the MP of the Movement of Change, Mr. Frangidis. Can you hear us, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u190	I can hear you, Mr. President. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u191	Yes, very well. Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid proliferation of the new Delta mutation shows that the health crisis is a project with several episodes and the Happy end is still late. Against a possible fourth wave of pandemics, we now have an important ally, the vaccine. And this is where the government has to focus. The message needs to be simple and clear: The vaccine reduces the risk of virus and mutations, saves lives. It is, of course, worrying that there are still areas with a low rate of vaccination and even ages that do not seem to be intensified, thus delaying the creation of the immunity wall. The reasons for distrust must be examined and eliminated by means of targeted information and related actions. It must be made clear to the world that the vaccinated person, even if he is ill, will be slightly ill. Vaccination at home of the elderly and people living in remote areas is necessary immediately. Minister, as far as the bill is concerned, the government's dear practice is concerned, a donation is being used to catch behind a large number of heterogeneous provisions relating to most of the extensions of contracts and the legalisation of costs due to pandemic. The result is the rain of the ministerial amendments. The government, unfortunately, still does not give up on the logic of management and is unable to deal with the health system's diseases and problems. You cannot constantly legislate temporary measures and emblematic solutions to meet the needs of the pandemic as you can. At some point there must be a mapping of needs and long-term planning. In connection with donations, they are no doubt crucial to meeting important needs of the health system. You, however, have so far refused to create a stable mechanism for their exploitation based on proper assessment of needs, sound and effective management and, of course, on transparency. The other provisions of the bill are purely management and handling. They do not solve problems which existed before and which have been reflected in the pandemic, such as the need for medical staff, equipment, building infrastructure and quality of service, the lack of organisation of primary health care, the inadequate treatment of the citizens' ever-increasing mental health. The problem of subsistence of the ERC shall not be solved by extensions of term of office or by moves from structure to structure. There is a need for permanent recruitment and a proper distribution of staff. You allow the legal work of the EEAS, such as draft notices and contracts, to be awarded to legal offices, and there is a legal department in the body which has the help of the Legal Board of State. Why should the EEA budget be charged in this way? As far as the provisions on clawback are concerned, we have noted many times that what is needed is rationalisation of pharmaceutical expenditure. The clawback is formed at very high levels in our country in relation to the countries of Europe. This is a great burden for Greek pharmaceutical companies, which thus puts brakes on their competitiveness. In the Ministry of Health we see a lack of coordination. The delays in hospitals have increased significantly. On 18-2021, the Ministry sent the second grant to hospitals earlier than last year, but without having taken care of the legalisation provision for the costs of hospitals, pending from 23 December 2020, which is necessary for their liquidation. This move therefore makes no sense. Minister, the mutation of the coron in combination with the relaxation of the measures and the full opening of the market and tourism make the coming of a fourth wave of the pandemic very likely. Something like that, of course, we all do. It is your duty to strengthen the National Health System, which has already been harnessed by previous phases of the pandemic, so that we can successfully deal with such a possibility. Finally, as tourist manager, I would like to point out to you once again that health structures in tourist destinations should also be fully prepared, which, unfortunately, we do not see today being in fact true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon Intellectual. Mr. Spiritual, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the ratification of amendments to two conventions of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation aimed at strengthening and upgrading the infrastructure of the public health system at the new General Hospital of the Komotini Foundation of "Stavros Niarchos", "Agia Sophia" and "Atticon". The contribution of the private sector through donations to the upgrading of health services and the modernisation of infrastructures is very important and welcome. But the health system must shape the conditions so that it does not depend on the generosity and good will of its benefactors. Most health structures in our country are now aged. Some hospitals have been renovated since their establishment. The same applies to their technological equipment. As I have said before, if we want all hospitals to be modern, to have the best medical equipment, to meet the needs of patients, but also to progress in science, we need a permanent system that can ensure that these interventions are financed. Otherwise, when the years are over, we'll be looking for new donors to sustain what we're building today. At the same time, with donations from the ESS, it can be self-financed and not only dependent on the state budget. This requires: Firstly, greater independence and self-government of hospitals with an autonomous budget and balance sheet, with revenue and expenditure on the basis of which the administration will be judged. This requires, of course, the correct payment of the services provided by the hospital to the insured. Secondly, the creation of a new health map, resulting from the recording of structures but, above all, from the recording of today's real needs. Thirdly, strengthening primary health care, with greater independence at local level, as well as in the immediate assistance system of the EMCDDA, so that all patients have rapid access to the necessary and urgent medical care. Fourthly, the reform of the system of remuneration for doctors and health staff in a way that responds not only to the enormous importance of their work but also to their productivity. Fifth, the adoption of a system of data-based treatments, evidence based media, and the creation of expertise centres, centers of excellence, which implement these therapies ensure the best possible medical practice with limited complications and resource savings. Sixth, the reform of the procurement system, with a demand for a flexible, functional, rapid hospital-level procedure and, most importantly, the best price. The resources that will be saved from such interventions can be reinvested in the public health system, thereby effectively ensuring its self-financing to a large extent. It is obvious that state funding is not enough. The continuous modernisation of health infrastructures and services on the basis of developments in medicine also requires the involvement of the private sector. There is no "good" private person, who gives us hospitals and machinery, and the "bad" who only wants to speculate, asking for remuneration for the services offered by the public system. We are not talking about health privatisation, but about exploiting synergies with the private sector, such as PPPs, to cover areas in which the state is lagging behind. In these partnerships, the state is not the weakest place, but the demanding customer, who sets the terms and conditions. So why should partnerships with the private sector be taboo? Are we not concerned about the fact that a large percentage of health expenditure is private and comes out of the patient's pocket? Why can't the public health system offer access to the most modern machine and pay for it in some formula without the patient being charged? The parallel operation of the public and private system at similar levels will create noble starch, will give the choice to the patient, which will be the greatest benefit. The private sector also belongs to the Greek pharmaceutical industry. The clawback together with the rebate and direct taxation account for 70% of the turnover of the pharmaceutical industries. These are resources that could return to the health system in the form of investments, research and innovation in cooperation with public health structures, by creating new jobs. I should like to make a reference here and say that it seems reasonable to me that the request made at the hearing of bodies for 2020 to be regulated in more instalments, as is the case for the other sectors. The aim is not to accumulate debts, but to pay them. Public and private sectors are not enemies. These are the ideological simplifications of the previous century. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy since the first moment of the unprecedented economic crisis has put human health as a priority. It has taken serious and organized measures to bring the pandemic to restart and strengthen the ESS, which, in accordance with this draft law, extends, in line with the needs and requirements of the pandemic. Along with the people of the ESS, doctors, nurses, other staff, not only kept the system up, but managed to restore people's confidence in it. Moving beyond the pandemic, the Government's reformist effort in the critical health sector must continue - and it will continue - even more forcefully by making use of the private sector's contribution, with the aim of always and first improving health services for the benefit of all patients and without any extra financial burden on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Spiritual. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because I see, if I understand correctly, that Mr Kontozamanis is in the cabinet, I would like to ask him whether he is concerned about both as a citizen and as a scientist about the insolence with which Mr Kelles reveals the secrets of the party, the MP who was just before the Stepma, saying - without of course incriminating his children - that he was asked to put an instrument for vaccination. Why did they ask him? Because there is obviously some crack and some 'window' as happened at the beginning of the vaccination. I say this because, after Mr Kella's 'zebels' as a model of compliance with the measures, I have sometimes been tired in this House of listening to two pretexts against any criticisms made, that anyone who makes the neo-liberals at the forum is miserable and petty and that anyone who dares to question the New Democracy's account is certainly doing something bad. It's not like that. I'm closing up with a question. Since you are so favoured by polls with the findings you want to interpret, why are you missing from the world? Why don't government ministers bother getting into a public hospital, getting on a bus, going to a school to talk to teachers, go to a big factory, of which, unfortunately, will there be the consequences of the Hatzidakis Labour Bill? Why are you only on television windows and nobody finds you in the world? Mr President, it is to the credit of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Kefalayannis, who stands out in the arrogance of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, who, by cutting off the amendment that I will now comment on the EEAS within the bill, admitted that it is not the best way to legislate, it is simply a tradition that continues. He asked for an understanding of the presentation of an amendment. There, however, is an important good, water. Other colleagues have referred to the EEAS issue. Where there is a contradiction between the New Democracy, while it fights everything public, every public good has it to its face, yet it considers that it defends human values and human prospects. I would like to make it clear that what is being attempted by this amendment at least on an issue, for the external employer system, will put at risk both quality but also the price of the most valuable good, the water, which is essential for our lives. And that is achieved by an amendment to the signature of Kostas Karamanlis on the Mitsotakis Government. Today, Mr President, and to respect the speaking time - because sometimes, you know, here at Webex is a bit of punishment to expect you to follow all the speeches - there is another element in topicality, a parliamentary vaterlo. It's about the preliminary interrogation for Nikos Pappa. What happened? Why doesn't anyone speak from New Democracy? Because the most recent, Mr. Ploris, who was one of the main enthusiasts of a political persecution, which has collapsed today with the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry, which gives rise to a breach of duty. And for those who have exercised ministerial duties, they understand very well what shame this means for a well-advertised parliamentary and judicial prosecution procedure against a former minister. Children's arguments I hear, as leaks, that there was evidence and not evidence. But you know that beforehand, there was no evidence. Still, you insisted on the prosecution. I shall say, Mr President, that the majority of the pre-reviewing majority, the majority of the Committee of Inquiry in New Democracy, is absolutely right. It's the definition of a breach of duty to defend the interests of public money. It is the definition of the duty violation for the New Democracy, with the values of Mr. Mitsotakis, of defending and bringing money to the public funds, as Nikos Pappas did. It's a violation of duty to stop the party with the pharmaceutical and medical dimension of supplies. It is really a breach of duty to stop feeding the sharks of the pharmaceutical and medical supplies of materials. It is really a violation of duty to think about the next generations, leaving the fruit, sweat and blood of the Greeks for the first time as a 37 billion billion stock. Yes, it is a violation of duty the way Nea Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis thinks. It's a violation of duty to abolish the sad underpaid wage, to upgrade it for young people and to defend collective agreements. It is, finally, a real violation of the duty to defend the public health system and public finances and public school. But there is something I would like to say in closing, because we must also gain immunity from nonsense. We invite every Greek and Greek woman to be vaccinated from the first moment. "Four - a paragraph," said a friend to you commentator. There is no one who creates a climate against vaccination. But there's one more thing. We have immunity to the inconvenience which is introduced into public life. The freedom of young children, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, has no price for 150 euros. And I assure you that the children will be vaccinated and turn their back on this pheasant and extractive operation. The call for vaccination is a national case, national conscience, national responsibility. And the children have shown far greater responsibility than many of those in this Chamber have shown. And I want to tell you that the education and culture, the responsibility of these children, who may not know us, do not know any of us, but have codes of dignity far higher than Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Kikilias, Mr Kontozamanis or anyone who, in any case, promoted this idea. I would like to close, Mr President, so that I do not abuse your time by saying that children know how to recognise the truth and the honesty, the honesty and the uprightness of it towards their interlocutors. And I want all of us to remember that in these children, the name Giannoulis, Mitsotakis, the name Plearis, the name Kilas, the name Kelles, but they are told something deep in their soul lyrics singed and experienced by the people. For these children to whom a Mitsotakis has been imprudently and unworthyly addressed are children who "just live it from their swing". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. Mr Bourhan Barran has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, any citizen who reads the text of this bill, which we are summoned at today's plenary session to ratify, would expect that he deals primarily with the two important public health donations of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. Instead, reality is completely different. One realizes that the government once again through the cloak of this bill is trying to incorporate various other provisions in a rough and pretextful manner. So what do we see again? We see that it seeks to meet needs and interests, which it knows very well to do. But it's not my intention to tire you long. So, I'm coming directly into this bill. The assistance of the Foundation to assist children's and adolescent health services through the funding of a five-year scientific programme is a step forward. However, this is still the case with the private sector's contribution. It is also known that you refused to sign up to the proposal of the Change Movement for the creation of a permanent donation management mechanism, improving it and making it a more transparent and reliable way. Why is that? But tell us what you have done or what you have done for the rest of the population of this land, who is depleted and outward limits of sanitary resentment bleeds mentally. The rapid change of daily habits caused by the fear of illness from the virus, the forced or voluntary locking, the economic pressure and insecurity for the future have led to the worsening of the mental health of the Greeks, which is robbing our country. I call it every day, and I have already said so many times, from the Stephen of the House, that there should be substantial awareness and action on the part of the government for greater investment in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no health without mental health. That is why it is essential to have a strategic planning for the psychological support of society and, above all, for people working in various areas of health, but also for patients experiencing unprecedented conditions. Nevertheless, the government is deaf and doing so in an anarchist manner. Continuing on this, I would like to stress something that I imagine did not only make me ask myself. The two words that dominate this bill are "extension" and "transfer". That's enough! The issue of permanent extensions must be brought to an end. It is not just the modern seeming hospitals that are on set-aside, but in order to get the machines the basic core is required, and he is the inspiring, he is the health staff, who has done his duty with self-determination and self-sacrifice, which you have bleeded and throw it right and left as a ball, filling false hopes and promises. The government, even now, after the unequal struggle of health care in public health structures against the virus, remains faithful to its obsessions and attempts with semi-metres and carelessness to cover the gaps in hospitals with temporary employment of private doctors instead of permanent staff. Will you finally tell us something about the substance, ladies and gentlemen of the government? There is no point in this bill to mention recruitment of permanent staff or the simulation of all these employees who have been hired with all these flexible forms of work and all kinds of contracts. Will subsidiary or contractors, as promised during the pandemic, be permanentised? Will you continue to share promises or will you make your word, integrating the health workers into heavy and unhealthy, as the Prime Minister was commanded with the Minister of Health? Here we are, and we will be to let us know. What each intelligent man perceives is that you like to waste your powers and the patience of the citizens of this country, bringing to the vote more important issues to major problems in a place that is seen and trying to stand on his feet. However, we are not going to give you a white cheque in this area either. So instead of bringing similar and scorpionic provisions to such legislation, I hope and hope you will bend your head to the core of a problem that we face as a society and take more essential care that the knife reaches the bone. Do this more so that drastic measures and outlets can be found for the citizens in need. We as a Change Movement expect you to produce real production rather than the policy series. In conclusion - and I would like to stress this - I call on my blonde fellow citizens, who have the lowest rates of vaccination, to go to the vaccination centres to be vaccinated. That doesn't suit us, it doesn't represent us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr Barran. The New Democracy MP, Mr. Friday Brysidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every time we discuss a health ministry bill, it is good to make an evaluation of the actions that have so far been taken, because this ministry has managed one of the biggest problems in recent decades and we should point out that it has managed the situation very well, as the result shows, as citizens and politicians from all over Europe say, but above all as the citizens with whom we are talking about in the streets, in hospitals - today I was at the Jordanian Bodosace Hospital - as they are talking about in factories, in general in all regions and in all parts of the world. And management was done in the best way and thanks to the reflexes of the government, the management of the Ministry, the cooperation of citizens, but also the very good effort of doctors and nurses. Today the bet is in another chapter called vaccination. It goes very well and it has been proven that our protection and the step in everyday life will pass through the step of vaccination. I think we should continue at the pace we are going to date to have the best possible results. And here I would like to praise the Prime Minister's initiative, who chose to reward the new generation with her choice of being vaccinated, and it is a message of support in the direction that all citizens must follow to protect human health, human life and enter everyday life. And, of course, I would like to point out that 99% of people who go with COVID to the hospital and the large proportion of those who lose the battle of life are the people who have not been vaccinated. And now we go to this bill, which refers to the ratification of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation donation agreement with equipment at the Komotini Hospital, which was ratified by previous law by the donation agreement. And it is important that this equipment, as it refers to a CT scanner, refers to a section of special mammography imaging, a full cardiovascular control carried out by machines, as well as rooms that will be properly organised for patient rehabilitation. This bill also refers to mental health care for children and adolescents, an important chapter relating to children, and here a special organisation takes place. Children will be helped, their parents will be helped with staff who will be transferred from structures, which operate on a corresponding subject and there is a five-year scientific programme, which will particularly train workers in the area to help children, not only in today, but also in their future. At the same time, the bill provides building structures at Attica University Hospital, where we will be able to have more beds during newspapers. All these are important steps, they are important interventions, they help the people, and we can only support them and vote for them, and we must praise them, because the health area is sensitive, it is about human dignity, human life and all care in that direction that must definitely be based and taken a step forward. We also have provision for two years longer than the age for assisted reproduction and allow doctors who have completed sixty - seven years to be extended until December 2021. And this provision makes it easier in some areas, if they also want doctors, not to leave the seats empty and so help patients and hospitals not to have any gaps. So, the extension of the age limit and the extensions given to various Ministries are important, because at the right time, it is considered that we need workers who work in the reception centres of refugees and migrants, the quarterly extensions for doctors, the workers working on cleanliness at the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Culture and Sport. It is important that proper functioning is ensured and, above all, proper functioning is ensured. Also, there are provisions for the Ministry of Justice, where, because of the coronary, some cases could not go ahead, and now the electronic declaration of the participation of lawyers is being made, as well as the Ministry of Rural Development provides for procedures for extending and operating the administrative boards of cooperatives that could not hold general meetings because of the coronary. All these forecasts and procedures deal with various areas, but they were necessary in order to facilitate and improve each individual function. We also have the possibility of providing for a better organisation of vaccination centres, which, as I said before, are crucial at this point in time. So they want the appropriate staff to be able to function in the best possible way. We also have the provision of a network of home care for nurses, who can in all parts of Greece and at the most distant point visit the helpless people, and even do COVID home-sampling checks. Finally, I would like to refer to the possibility that doctors, who have a place in health centres, who can understand an organic vacancy, any vacancy in the ERC, if and if they wish it within their own RU or in any other and in general there is a number of facilities and regulations, thereby proving that we support and recognize the offer of doctors and nurses, but not only with the words, but also with various measures, with various facilities. Because, of course, we must all be together in the fight for the best of our country, and we must recognise the offer of those who have taken the lead in these positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u201	And we thank Mrs. Brysidou. We are completing the list of fellow Members with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Panayia Capato.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a statement on the draft law concerning the environment, the data and the conditions under which coordination of the health system takes place. According to the daily epidemiological surveillance report by COVID -19, on Monday 28 June 2021 eight casualties were recorded by our fellow citizens, two hundred 15 permeated patients and three hundred sixty-two new confirmed cases. Referring to the respective daily report on 28 May, the losses amounted to forty, the intangible patients in the five hundred twenty-one and the new cases in a thousand five hundred and eighty-five. If, finally, we look at the data on 28 April, two months before the recent report, sixty losses are recorded, two thousand seven hundred eighty-one cases and eight hundred five patient invasions. At the same time, vaccination progresses steadily. With five million fellow citizens having achieved at least one dose of the vaccine, it is clear that the required immunity wall is shaped and freedom day after day is restored. This demonstrates the course of pandemic management, which allows us to optimise the next day, without ignoring the dangers that possible complacentness can bring about. So only we can hope that our losses of fellow citizens will be stopped, the health system will be decongested even further and the next day of the crisis will find us ready to take our lives back. I now come to the bill of the Ministry of Health concerning the donation contract between the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State, as well as the arrangements that address the challenges of COVID -19. I have chosen to focus on points of the draft law that I consider to be important, since the timeframe and multidimensional nature of this project calls on us to limit ourselves to the content of our report. The first point relates to the fourth article in Part Two concerning the regulations of the Ministry of Health. In particular, this provides for the possibility of setting up and operating primary health care service providers and public institutions in application of the provisions for private primary health care providers. In this way, it attempts to apply the provisions setting out the terms, conditions and operating standards of private primary health care providers, such as the doctorate or dentistry established by public institutions of L.4183/2013. The aim is to ensure the minimum conditions for the safe operation of these structures, as well as the protection of public health. Moreover, the provision of minimum square meters of space or the definition of a scientifically responsible doctor or dentist strengthens our argument. In any case, the Ministry of Finance continues to supervise public institutions, with the exception of providers of primary health care services of non-profit institutions. The second point concerns the 20th Article and the procedure for sending medicinal products to vulnerable groups and patients under restriction. Our intervention extends the scope of the arrangement until 30 September 2021. This is one of the most flagrant interventions of a social and health policy that respects the patient and recognises the objective difficulties in accessing the medicine, particularly under conditions of pandemic. The twenty-fifth article of this bill is another point worth mentioning. This is an extension of the possibility of recruiting medical, nursing and other auxiliary staff in the EGE. The 40th article extends until 30 September the possibility of granting donations of hospital equipment by the Minister of Health. Accordingly, the possibility of receiving funds for direct provision of hospital equipment, as well as the possibility of receiving donations from the EGE, is extended. Finally, in order to cope with the daily operational, organisational and service challenges, it is necessary to draw up organisational programmes enabling health operators to function uninterruptedly and effectively. This is under Articles 73 and 74 concerning the training and modification of hospitals and the management bodies of health regions and health services. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my introduction with a reference to an important regulation concerning society and the citizens of Kefalonia and Ithaca. Article 82 solves tax outstandings relating to the contract between the General Hospital of Kefalonia, the Greek State and the executors of the Georgios and Maris Vergotiou covenant. This is a donation of 1.2 million for the construction of a new wing, new department, emergency and two patient lifts. It is an intervention which the way opens up because of this regulation. Of course, the family’s donation of $10 million had taken precedence for the creation, with the consent of the Greek public, among others, of a METH wing at the Hospital of Kefalonia, a prefecture of some forty thousand inhabitants. Support for public health through benefits, private donations and initiatives by civil society must find us as lawmakers and present, especially in the context of the COVID crisis -19. After all, the aim of a draft law such as what we are talking about today is to introduce regulations that facilitate the implementation of projects to upgrade public health structures. In the case of the donation, Veronica, its content and the need that the health crisis bears do not allow for any reassurance. The intensive care unit, in which part of the donation is directed, must be completed not only for the formal reason that the contract provides for, but also because it is a serious need for the Kefalonia and Ithaca Prefecture. This is a contagious, necessary project, which, over the years of inertia preceded by'slashing'. I am using this expression with full knowledge of the situation and the prospects open up before us, which change the quality of health services in Kefalonia and Ithaca. A parameter that comes directly into contact with the tourist product produced by our country, with health services being taken seriously into account by international bodies and tourist agencies. The COVID health crisis -19 is clearly accelerating the need to resolve the outstandingity I have just described. This is what the conditions of the pandemic are, the needs of the citizens and visitors of our prefecture and the will of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This draft law is a good start. Let us move on to the next final step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u203	And we thank Mr. Cappato. Now, special speakers and rapporteurs will be given the floor for a period of three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but we can only speak for three minutes. We also have amendments. These are seven amendments. The amendments also have articles on the subject. Give us at least the time we're entitled to our dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u205	We'll see. Mrs. Maria Apajidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, will the Minister not present the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u207	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u208	The Minister is committed to presenting the two amendments of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u209	The Minister will speak last.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u210	But give an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u211	The Minister heard that. Mrs. Apajidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to highlight the extremely dangerous nature of the amendment on matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. It concerns the introduction of private individuals from now on to water management and in particular the external water system. We recall that the NSA service is concerned with the management of central water infrastructures such as sources, reservoirs, aqueducts, and is related to the safety of water quality. In other words, from now on the EEAS has been given the right to manage external water systems, but only for three years. After this operation of the NRA, he will take over a contractor following a tendering procedure. In short, the private. In other words, however, it even gets hand in the water of the citizens. In other words, the Council of State does not allow this scandalous development, i.e. a direct sale of the most basic good, the Memorandum Governments choose the route of the public-private partnership. This is a scheme in which the public pays, costs and guarantees loans. The private person simply collects, exponentially increasing prices. In other words, it is a reproach. The government has to get it back. You need to get that device back. But also in the four articles of the amendment concerning ERGOSE, we see similar risks. In particular, derogating from both the construction regulations and the environmental legislation of infrastructure projects. Once the commercial piece, the "TRAINOSE" is in the hands of the bankrupt Italian railways, as SYRIZA sold the Italian company for EUR 45 million, it will, in fact, be this: the public will build the infrastructure on which will be won by odd interests. This is, of course, a vicious combination that has arisen from the policies of all the Memorandum parties and has begun with SYRIZA, as with the amendment, where the toxic combination is fully consolidated. As regards the amendment to the arrangements for the company 'DENMARK', it is only by accident that it is not the choice of Timing, since the amendment is tabled at the time the submission of binding tenders for the sales of the 'DENMARK' which is scheduled for 15 July. The amendment includes contributions to the company's suitors, such as the increase in time and the possibility of extending licences, barriers, in other words, in the event of regions being disbursed and others, for which we will also vote against. As to the bill, a recast is needed. It is none of your business, Minister, but I think you can do something now. The reference ‘from 1 -7-2021’, which says for Article 85, ‘those applications for redefinition under Article 48’ of Law No.3869, ‘they have not been submitted within the time limits set out in Article 4D, may exceptionally be submitted from 1 -7-2021 to 15-7-2021’. If you can, check it out, please. There is no doubt that something needs to be said about digital, plastic debit cards for the young people eighteen to twenty-five years old. As MERA25, we want to stress that the great problem with the government that has chosen to use a tool that is extremely disgraceful for young people first and foremost, for the body of citizens and as usual ungodly and over-teaching. Of course the digital debit card tool itself could have been properly used. Mera25 had said since the pandemic, that is, a year and a half ago, fifteen, sixteen months ago, it asked for debit cards to be used for all vulnerable, so that the extreme crisis could be dealt with successfully from the outset. As in 2015, if you remember well, most of you were MPs at the time, to strengthen four hundred thousands of vulnerable families. But now what's going on? The Prime Minister is coming over a year and a half to give plastic cards only to young people, making them a lesson in teaching style. However, there is no need for a little shame, I say, ladies and gentlemen of the government? A Prime Minister, who last months together with the Minister, Mr Chrysochide, sent young people for a frontal collision, came with a disgraceful reason to express for the young - who have always had it - who are faced with a turbulence, also giving them a responsibility for closed universities, that they have closed down on account of other things too due to the policies that the government has conducted. He, as Prime Minister, has no right to move the finger on the new tutors, with obsolete and dull taste jokes. The whole symbolic movement, that is, is also problematic at the same time. It is as if young people needed education, education, that is, ultimately manipulation in relation to the issue of the coronary. Previously, the Prime Minister had spoken no more about the sprayed, dividing the Greek people. Today it says that, in order for young people to be vaccinated, they must take money to go to their cultural education. That's a lot of trouble. It is also a cheap takeover of the consciences of young people, but at the same time it is also an issue of health that is unfortunately linked to issues of education and culture, showing the new generation as a problem. In other words, this is the characteristic authoritarian paternalism of the right. In fact, the Prime Minister is trying to trap young people. If young people enter vaccination, they will appear as cheap redeemed for 150 euros and humiliated by the right of paternalistic repression, which is inappropriate, because the reason why they are being vaccinated is for their good, for the sake of health, social responsibility and for their solidarity with other fellow citizens. While, at the end of the day, young people do not come to vaccination massively, the result is that by direct or direct encouragement from the government they will turn to older ages than young people. Young people will be presented as disfellowshipped from the rest of society, as reluctant not only for vaccination but also for their cultural education. I don't know if the government is so disfellowshipped from reality that it thinks it can actually attract votes with similar cheap tricks. However, this measure is indeed humiliating for young people, as the government and other social groups, for example, women, are humiliating them with their anti-feminist policy. But even as a reward for young people to present this measure, it is an obsolete authoritarian paternalism, which reminds me - I said it before - other decades of the right. But, of course, young people are well aware of the fraudulentity of similar policies, similar methods and cannot be humiliated. Of course they will take their decisions unaffected by you, from the cheap, type of manager, the Prime Minister who came over this measure. It will reach consciences from another world, regardless of youths, that the present government seems to view youth as being supposedly influenced by cheap tricks. As MERA25, if you allow us to say, we also regret that the government is deceiving from a preamble and ultimately enchanting a measure such as providing prepaid cards from the public to the public as direct aid. A measure that could have been used in a prologue way rather than a splitting, only for specific groups and for specific companies. On the sanitary side, the Prime Minister told us in the House in February that he would be vaccinated by more than 70% by June. Eventually, only 35% have been vaccinated so far. In a spirit that does not suit the Prime Minister's institution, fragmentary measures are precisely a confession of failure. It's too little, too late. But to cover the fact that a network of mass tests and a network of mass vaccination centres has not been set up. But that is the spirit of the bill as a whole, when it fails the state to transfer its responsibility to either powerful individuals, such as the first two articles, or to wider social groups, rather than creating a network of mass tests and post-mortem vaccination, so that all of what we are talking about remains a reserve. Instead, we see self-diagnostic checks being carried out on citizens, and the state is taking away its responsibilities. As I said earlier that I am voting in favour of the bill, I am voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. Mrs Maria Athanasiou has the floor for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the amendment to the home-to-house vaccinations, Article 1, includes private doctors of every specialty of EUR 20, but I am not standing at the price. How do you act responsibly, embolising people apparently helpless, that is, older, and with the problems that these ages accompany? Have you considered the possible complications that, assuming they occur, should not the doctor at least be accompanied by a mobile step organised to deal with any side effect of the vaccine? Article 3: Molecular tests and rapid test. Should the State not take control of the country's gates at a state cost? Controls incoming tourists, whether or not, to control as far as possible the transmission of the virus and the mutations? It is very important to know that the tests must be carried out on everyone, whether they are vaccinated or not, since they are also ill and transmitted. We know that as doctors. As we have said in previous debates, we are not opposed to the complementary functioning of the private sector with the public sector. We are vertically against the degradation of the ESS, how much more so when this degradation can be avoided and healed with a little political will shown by your projects that you are solid. We are still opposed to maintaining the conditions for hospital subsistence, abandoning primary health care and the lack of a strategy and vision for public health of the 21st century. Reforms to revive the ESS have shifted to the unknown future, while problems are growing, as are the lack of organisation and targeted actions. The state needs to put in place a permanent, transparent and independent mechanism, which with reliable and clear rules will make best use of donations to protect public health and with the priority of modernising and renewing the equipment of public hospitals. Of course, all this on top of priority and with state care and support. Subsequently donations work as an alternative to the work of the state, which is the health benefit of Greek citizens. Public health services, their development and their absolutely universal exploitation by the people, we repeat, cannot depend on every three and little on charity. It is a constitutional right and a state responsibility for the state to take care of Greek taxpayers by reimbursing the taxes paid. It is generally obsolete that primary health and the National Health System in general does not belong to the priorities of your Government. On the other hand, the protection and enhancement of private health interests is now a strategic objective. For all you're cutting is how the economy moves, how tourism comes, how the market opens. And all that results? A sanitary stumbling in which the Greek citizen is lost. Finally, I will refer again to the divisive practices adopted by the Prime Minister on inducement of vaccination and the famous EUR 150 card. The digging slogan: "You are vaccinated, you are safe. You are invasive, you are in danger” reflects the failure of the vaccination movement and the government's Mitsotakis policy. A failure which, unfortunately, you refuse to admit. I am concerned about the Prime Minister's initiative as a doctor and as a mere thinking citizen. According to approved pharmacology professors, vaccines appear to be extremely dangerous in the long term and there are very important publications of investigations that the spike of the virus produced in the body due to vaccines, causing thromboses, damages endothelium, therefore cardiovascular problems are caused and has toxic activity in myocardial. You also know very well that the immunity of those who were first vaccinated will not last much longer. That's why a lot is heard of third-dose vaccination. In addition, recent studies conclude that vaccinated young people have seven times more chances of developing thrombosis. And then announcing a gift card. You are bribing - because this is what this is about - our young people of eighteen to twenty-five years old to 150 euros to be vaccinated with these emergency vaccines. Our young people who, if they get sick, will spend it with a few dozen. What does this spasmodic movement mean? What are you pursuing? The help of the banks? Is there anything you're afraid of? We're really trying to understand you. Did you not manage to convince the over sixty-seven and those belonging to vulnerable groups to be vaccinated, did you decide to work on our youth? Is it because the world cancels the dates scheduled for vaccination because they have been afraid and because, as thoughtful citizens, they realize that they are in a vicious circle and that the hopes of freedom you give them are finally proved to be fruitfruits, have you decided to find ways to attract our energy-filled young people? The Prime Minister and the government together owes our young people respect to their thirst for their lives, to their spontaneity. He owes them their self-respect, owes them the right conditions for a better future in their homeland and not prepaid cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u215	The floor is now given by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, the Vice-President of the Parliament, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, thank you. I will only take a few seconds to go back to the fact that the amendments, ministerial amendments from other ministries, regardless of the bill, are known. Mr President, we will obviously have the time to vote because the vote that will be taken on each amendment will be as a whole, but it will also be reflected in the specific articles of each amendment, which, if you wish, will alter the vote of each of the groups. In this regard, we are talking about our own. I shall now start with the first amendment. Minister, we ask you to withdraw it. Retire her. It's not yours, the Department of Health. It's the Ministry of Transport. However, it is an amendment that is inconceivable. It is a scandalous amendment, of course, concerning Article 6 of the ECHR and the tradition after three years of the capital network and the wider area in the mountainous mountainous, that is to say, in the great business interests. In other words, the network of EEAS is being privatised. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Ghikalaya, will obviously vote in light of the heart. You're loading the people with extra raisins. Once the private entrepreneur, infrastructure and networks built by the people of the capital and the wider region themselves, will enter, so that the private and business people who will be active in gaining gain will be given them. Because that's what it's all about. So you load the people with joy. We are also asking what services will be provided. This is not an accident with regard to the EEAS and the rest as well as the ‘TRAINOSE’. It is a part of the puzzle of your strategic choices and as a government and as a party. But also other urban parties and previous governments. Part - they moved the famous restructures into a number of areas, from water, energy, transport and goes by saying, privatising sectors, parts, all sectors, in order to strengthen business profitability, but burdening the burdens on the people and the people. That is why we are calling for this amendment to be withdrawn. In addition, the same amendment provides for interest subsidies on loans to the ATTIF and since 1992. Similarly, we have with Articles 2, 3 and 4 the facilitation of TRAINOSE with the facilities and infrastructures that the OSE is called upon to build in order to make use of the infrastructures that will be made with the Greek people's money. This is the strategy and implementation of this strategy with liberalisation and energy policy. Serve clearly business interests by charging the people burden the burdens and not much more by driving him to pay services that he should have free of charge. TRAINOSE reminded me of this. The bill provides, in addition to the facilities and networks to be created by the OSE, for TRAINOSE to be able to use them, that at the same time TRAINOSE will be financed. It is supported by five million but at the same time in Thessaly, in my area, it stops the Paleofarsala-Kalabaka line. Understand? These are the results of the privatisation and business operation of transport, water, energy and business groups that destroy forests, forest areas, and any provision that the company or companies will refresh land only as a bad joke can be heard. And it is indeed a pretext that is unscientific, because destruction is not a matter of scope but a more general environmental issue, which concerns all the environmental conditions that are made up of an ecosystem. So this amendment - we are not discussing it - we will vote against it. But we ask - I repeat - that it be withdrawn now, Minister. It seems that the Ministry of Transport envyed the glory of the Ministry of Labour, which a few days ago voted for the infamous monstrous scheme, namely the law on the adjustment of working hours for workers in our country. The second amendment we are voting against, in particular for the first two articles, if they were separate, is 958. In the third article we will say 'the present'. And the fact is that the Ottawas are assigned powers to the Ottawas, who will be called upon to pay for these responsibilities that you give them, even with the extension you give them. Amendment No 999, which is from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, we are voting against. This is the implementation of arrangements on the basis of choices made by business groups and by the State which serves them on the basis of their profitability, ignoring the risk involved by transporting the gas fuel, whether through the road network through the middle of residential areas, through storage tanks and others, by putting people's health and popular housing at risk. Moreover, the increasing transport of gas by road in recent years has already led to serious accidents. International experience has been imprinted for many years with tragic results for the world, for the inhabitants of the regions where extensive traffic accidents occurred. We propose a suspension of all relevant permits until the detailed plan provides for an appropriate placement of the facilities so that there is no risk to workers and residents. As far as Amendment No 960 is concerned, we are voting against it. Articles 1, 2 and 3 dominate our negative vote. It is the amendment concerning the Ministry of Culture concerning the Music and Educational Organisation of Greece. It is an organization founded after the contract of the club "Friends of music and music "Camerata". Since 2015 the Music and Educational Organisation of Greece (MEO) has remained headless. The problems were, of course, begun before 2015, when management appeared. No government ever since then has done nothing to have Camerrata. So it slowly began to slow down the orchestra to come to New Democracy's government today to put the final tombstone. Of course, the government with the articles can formally resolve the issue of liquidation, but it certainly leaves the gap in the existence of another orchestra which could offer a lot if it were purely and firmly oriented to meet the needs of the people for entertainment and music cultivation. In Article 5 we would vote in favour, but by dominating the other articles in our negative vote, we will go overall against this amendment. In Amendment 961 there are provisions which we could vote on, such as Articles 3, 4 and 5, which we are talking about to renew private contracts. If they were apart, we'd vote for them. However, the two negative votes in the first article, which introduces electronic voting in urban cooperatives, dominates a procedure which, in principle, - if you like - we have voted against as a means of expressing votes in a collective procedure and, of course, Article 2 where we actually have renewal of contractors' contracts. So we're going to the 'presents' as a whole in this amendment. We are voting against Amendment No 962 by the Ministry of Education. In the first article, in the third and fourth of the amendment we would vote'residents' if they were apart, but what is bored in the negative vote is Article 2. This is an article which promotes the implementation of the strategy in higher education, namely the conversion of universities into public limited companies, universities, that is, the market that you have, in any case, legislated for the previous period. And I come to Amendment No 963- is by the Ministry of Health - which has six articles, Mr President. We will vote against it. In the first article we would vote against whether they were separate. Why, first, are you entrusting health care professionals with vaccinations for a fee. Secondly, these entrepreneurs like private doctors if they want to contribute if they do not want to contribute. This means that those who need to be vaccinated at home do not guarantee them, since they will be given the opportunity of business people - private individuals, in particular the profit criterion. Thirdly, there is a question of vaccine safety from the point of view of the appropriate infrastructure available for their preservation and maintenance. Fourthly, there is a question of the involvement of individuals of every kind. With these vaccines it is not just enough to know its vaccination technique from the one who will do it, the doctor, but to receive the history, to monitor the post-vaccination vaccines. Do all private doctors, for example, have the knowledge and infrastructure to deal with any complications during vaccination? Fifthly, all of this results from your policy. One-and-a-half year now you've left the primary health care units completely naked and this shows up. They could organisedly carry out vaccinations throughout the population and in cases of home vaccination. And not only do these regulations help to solve the problem, but they are also a greenhouse for the reproduction of fear, for distrust to the people, also contribute to the feeding of unscientific and irrational views. The second article, if it were apart, would have voted against it. The famous 'Blue Freedom', as referred to in the article, includes the maintenance of demolished public primary care units and hospitals, and also includes the policy of the movement of personnel, in order to close certain holes by opening up others. The personnel to be moved, how will patients be replaced to have health services? And why does the government not go on recruiting permanent staff in summary procedures? We would also vote against Article 3 if it were apart. It involves every bitter person - so to speak - private, businessmen, other than public health establishments in carrying out the tests. Do the residents of Greece who travel on the basis of Article 3 for tourist reasons and are required to carry out a test, whether or not to pay the EUR 60 or 20 costume accordingly? And what is to ensure the safety of samples, when private workshops take molecular tests such as on an island, and the check must be carried out in Piraeus, and the ship has seas that say in the islands, that is, because of weather and cannot sail, what is going to happen? Will the samples stay there? In Article 4 we would vote'residences' as in Article 5 and, of course, in Article 6. In total, therefore, we would vote against. Finally, on the basis of Article 6 of the amendment, Mr President, the government left the public markets for self-diagnostic tests. He's staying to see that, too. I shall close with one final comment, Mr President. Both the committee and the protagonist at the beginning of the debate on the bill have raised the issues by tabling the two amendments relating to the legalisation of the four thousand OAED workers in the public health system, but also by extending until the end of the year, with the possibility of obviously being fired from the possibility of joining the unemployment fund of thirty-six thousand five-and-a-half employees in the municipalities, regions and other bodies in the wider public sector which have been recruited under fixed-term contracts. We expect the Minister, because he has told us in committee too, to tell us whether he is accepting them or not. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will deal with the amendment you have tabled on vaccinations. It is true that every time we say 'every last year and better'. I mean that this legislative practice cannot continue, to table last minute five - six - seven amendments. First of all, we cannot even study them to see what is happening. You bring them in, and we are being asked at the moment to take a position and have an opinion. So this parliamentary arbitrage must at some point be stopped. As far as the specific amendment you tabled on home vaccination is concerned, I should like to put some questions to you. Of course, I did not hear you supporting it and you did not give any more information. But I want you to tell us when these home-to-house vaccinations will begin. Is there a certain date? Of course, home vaccination will make it easier for many of our fellow citizens belonging to vulnerable groups who cannot move. Will these patients have the right to choose an vaccine, or will it be a type of vaccine that we will do to all our fellow citizens who are also in vulnerable groups? What are you going to do with the transport and storage of the vaccine, especially at this time with the high temperatures that we know very well that the vaccines are sensitive and the temperatures that are maintained are too low? Another issue that arises is the question of any side effects that may arise among our fellow citizens. How will a doctor deal with it if there is no group of people who can cope in a difficult situation, in an allergic shock, for example? It's not hard to get an allergic shock. It could happen. That's where you'll have the doctor settled? Will it have civil immunity? There are some issues that you should see and which you will not have adopted. Because if you institutionalise the civil immunity of doctors who will carry out the vaccinations, you should bring to the House a piece of legislation and to the civil immunity of doctors who serve in the ERC. These are issues that arise and day after day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u219	You're a doctor and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u220	Because I know, that's why I'm telling you. I'm telling you, so you can understand what's going on. However, I am very afraid that this experiment that you are going to do with home-occupied vaccinations with private doctors will not work. Our colleagues will not be invited to participate in the vaccination programme. Then - and it is not enough for me to remember the article - you give the governors and sub-governments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a holiday present with the pretext to move to the high-capacity vaccination centres in the island and in regional Greece. In fact, this is all an inclusive holiday. I have the same idea, because I know that people are leaving to island Greece to serve the vaccination centres. The fact that the governors and the sub-commanders are going to what you are bringing, and indeed the fact that they find themselves in a way which is not very clear, is strange. We're giving them a present. We told you from the outset that all this history should be mobile vaccination teams, which mobile vaccination teams include doctor and nurse and health visitors and would be a group of people. Let's go to the tests now. First of all, the prices you have set for carrying out the tests are too high. Right now to make a PCR costs 75 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u221	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u222	I wish I was wrong. The PCR makes 40 euros, 20 euros, and 24% VAT, is not 75 euros? No, let me know if it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u223	There's no VAT, and the test has been priced for months.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u224	That's it. You'll see that again. You say: 'The required number of vaccinations in order for a person to be considered fully vaccinated'. What do you mean? That we're going to have a third dose or two doses is someone fully vaccinated? What if he's had different vaccines? If, in other words, someone has been vaccinated with ‘ASTRA ZENECA’ and medical advice, is he considered fully vaccinated? These are a number of issues that you will have to answer. And the last issue concerning self-tests. What happened all of a sudden and you're going and giving it to the supermarkets and grocery stores? What's changed? In a short time, can we see both the blood sugar tests and the cholesterol movies and the pregnancy tests selling the supermarkets and grocery stores? Because they're medical technicians and everything. Are we gonna give them to the supermarkets and grocery stores? Let's see where we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u225	On the outside, it can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u226	Do you intend to put the unprescribed drugs in the grocery stores and supermarkets? You haven't made any progress, but you're probably working on it, and you're slow to bring it. To keep my time off, I want to tell you this. I think that you manage a pandemic, you manage vaccination, but what you see is sloppy. Things need to get together, get rules in and get into order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u227	Mr Andreas Xanthos has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to state our position on the amendments. The amendment by the Ministry of Health, which refers to rapid test by grade 1 organisations, will be in favour of it. We are voting against the other amendment from the Ministry of Health, and I will explain why. We are voting against the amendment by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, because as Mr Giannoulis has already said, but also by other colleagues in the opposition, it is a PPP vehicle in the sensitive area of water management in the ECHR. I think that this option is absolutely problematic. We are voting against the amendment by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Environment. We are against all these amendments. Now let me make a few final comments on the debate, which preceded it. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, told us that we are miserable, petty, that we are destroying and that we are confused. Generally he said that the management that has been done is excellent, recognised internationally, society welcomes it, etc. That doesn't come from anywhere. All quality measurements of public opinion show a loss of confidence in government operations especially after the second wave. And, of course, there are some hard indicators, which cannot be ignored, such as deaths in the country by confirmed cases, are 3% stable in the last time when the world average is at 2%, 2.1% plus 50% above the world average and when the country at the rolling rate from week to week in the last eighteen weeks is in the first place in Europe at the rate of death growth. Now it is 0.97% when the next country is England with 0.41%, which is the country that is deeply affected by the Delta mutation. So don't sit down with numbers. We have a hard net in our country of almost thirteen thousand deaths. We have excessive mortality now reflected in ELSTAT's figures, in 2020 8% more of which 45% are cases that do not concern pandemic, that is, non-COVID morbidity. This has been captured, presented by a research team of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and is not questioned by anyone. The disorganization of the health system, Minister, is very visible. Those who have elementary contact with the reality of the large, but also of the provincial hospitals at this time know it very well. The world is essentially excluded from having the necessary monitoring and regulation for serious chronic diseases. I've read to you the research that cancer patients have done. The crucial thing is the issue of vaccines. You can't go on a success story here either. We have said and I have also personally recognised others from our political area that there have been positive steps in the field of organising the vaccination campaign, in the establishment of vaccination centres, in digital vaccination support, but there are serious quality problems in the sensitive data relating to vaccinations. The first of these is the issue of the small rate of vaccination for the elderly. That was supposed to be the target population. One out of three, let's go 30 percent now, he's inconvenience. This is a confession of the failure of the state and therefore of the government responsible. Secondly, we have no picture of how many of the vulnerable groups, namely those of the population that have severe and life-threatening illnesses, cancer-diseased, immunosuppressed, rheumatoid, bleeding, etc., how many of them have been vaccinated. Do we know? We don't know. Do we have a picture of how many are vaccinated by what we call special vulnerability populations, Roma, drug addicted, homeless, immigrants, refugees, immigrants without paper, prisoners? Do we have a picture? We don't have one. Do we have a picture of how many people are vaccinated by high-priority professional groups, because they are people who, because of the nature of their profession, are in contact with citizens every day and are workers in the public and private sectors? Do we have this quality element? We don't have it. So, well, you can see that the thing goes too far. Of course it is a huge mistake - and this is a common sense throughout the whole health system - and it is unacceptable today that vaccination centres are still operating in hospitals. The hospitals don't have any more work to do with vaccination. Primary care, public structures in cooperation and social services in the municipalities, and this is the answer to home vaccination, which has been dramatically delayed and explains the large proportion of unvaccinated over-ages. Home immunization is a mistake to entrust freelance doctors. This is a matter of synergy between public primary structures, EGE mobile units and the "Help at Home" programmes that know these populations, they have been recorded, monitored and cared for by them and can well organise vaccinations. I think that this option is completely wrong. Of course, there is an article here, which really makes me very impressed, that is Article 5 of the second amendment by the Ministry of Health, Amendment 963/157. It says, therefore, that: "In a decision of the Minister for Health, following the opinion of the National Committee for Vaccines...", not "agreed" opinion, that is to say, in the article setting out what the number of doses required to consider a natural person as fully vaccinated, you say that the National Committee for Vaccines should at the most - very much - give an opinion. Really? Is that the great basis you give scientific opinion and documentation? Not even in agreement? And what exactly is he hiding behind this? I really think it is unacceptable. It is only a reason to vote against the amendment. I now move on to the other issue concerning the disposal of self-selfs from supermarkets and other stations and from grocery stores. This is a slippery path, and I think they are deceiving in any case a problematic diagnostic procedure that we have spoken about many times and we also know very well that its rate of positiveness is too low, ten times the equivalent of the other rapid test antigens. As I said in my first speech, there is a crisis of confidence. Really what it takes now is a serious effort. First of all, social research is needed to identify seriously, in a scientific way, because specific groups of the population, because certain age groups have a wide divergence from the average of vaccinations. This is the subject of serious research, and on the basis of this research, and its results must go to a redesign of the vaccination policy, if you really want that to work, rather than to those degrading choices that really create a problem. And there is another issue that we did not raise. There is also a question of health conditions. From where and until where with a single dose will the Freedom Pass get the vaccinated? So we're telling him that it's enough for him to make a dose of vaccine to have privileges to have a financial impact so that he can have easy and free access to certain activities? This is a wrong message, a double mistake, and it is healthly insecure. So I think you're really improvising this period. In no scientific committee - neither the Committee on Vaccines nor the large Committee on Experts - this option has been discussed. It was a political choice of the government, like self-tests, respectively. Nowhere has there been any suggestion of experts on this, and the government has chosen, in an effort to tell us that it is safely opening up the economy and society, to show it. I think that these create a problem, strengthen distrust and reservation, and we have said it all these days, stress that we will do so in fact and urge the world, yet despite all the moves that are disturbing and insulting, to be vaccinated globally, because it is indeed mass vaccination that is an act of responsibility and of social solidarity and only by such actions and by ensuring consensus - social and political - we can overcome a major public health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u229	And we are closing the deadlines with the new Republic's rapporteur, Mr Ghikalaya. Here, Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u230	In conclusion, the debate of the bill in the Greek Parliament plenary and just before Minister Kontozamanis talks and, of course, gives substantial answers to the issues raised by all the sides of the House, I would like in general to express my satisfaction and my delight in the climate that has prevailed all these days in the debate. In the first time, either at the March 2020 pandemic that started or all the months after we discussed when the vaccines would be, if we could have vaccines at the beginning of 2021, there were some waves of doubt. These waves sometimes became conspiracy tide. Fortunately, they have not been turned - despite the fact that a few moments of concern - into a tsunami of nonsense. And that is what the valid, approved, wise voices from all the wings of this House have made a decisive contribution, and that is what I feel the need to express in public. Generally, ladies and gentlemen, both in the House and in medicine - where we are most at the moment at which we are in here - Greece suffers from statistics, regardless of the last health crisis we have. While great studies are being done, work is being done in universities and in other institutions, we do not have reliable statistics. I know very well that in the district of hospitals, the files, the patient records are not kept properly. We know, when we are looking for a history of patients one, two, three, five years back, what problems we have. That is why it will play a decisive role and the electronic file that we are establishing, as will the patient's electronic file initiated by the previous government - were positive steps at that time - has been interrupted and I think it is time to continue. So the conclusion of today's debate by voting for the bill is that we must continue to think that pandemic will continue to be a problem. We have gone very well so far, but we have to do with the experiences we have best to have the next time as fewer losses in human lives. And, fortunately, we are convinced that vaccinations must continue. We're not talking about it. We are giving up doubts and no one should remain inconvenienced, even if it is a child of eighteen to twenty-five years old, and very rightly since yesterday the Prime Minister introduced this incentive to attract young children and young people who do not feel the threat of the disease. The young man has both physical impulse and spiritual well - being and does not feel threatened. It is not bad at all, as is the motives or differences that will exist in vaccinated and unvaccinated, in terms of entertainment and entertainment in the coming months. I think we are right to plan and legislate for vaccination at home. It has to be done. Don't miss us because we don't have complete data in Greece, how many of our fellow people are not in hospitals, they're not in the nursing homes. There is a spectrum there, some who have serious chronic problems, usually over-aged - but not necessarily - and are trapped in the beds of pain. So they must be vaccinated one way or another. Some people take care of them, some of their relatives, some of their neighbors. And to tell my colleague of the Change Movement who expressed some concerns about civil liability or the side effects that it is now clear and absolute as long as it is over that the best vaccine is what is done faster. The risks of vaccination are so small that no one deserves to talk to them. He said one in a debate on a panel that I had to see in England, where they had thirty-two million "ASTRA ZENECA" vaccinations, how many of these side effects, life losses, and that if we put thirty-two million people on cars, on trains or at some point, some of them would be lost and certainly a lot more than those who were lost by the side effects. Here in Greece, the loss of life is measured on the fingers at the top of the two hands, and, unfortunately, 12 and a half thousand of our people have been lost. Therefore, to move forward by saying a positive word, always faithful to the value that above all is man, it is life, it is health. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too, for the time economy. And we will close today's long debate on the draft law with the Minister's position. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are voting on today is indeed an important legislative initiative by the Government - and this is reflected in the first article and I will explain - but unfortunately, from today's debate, micro-group feasibility prevails. I am referring to the first article because it is the amendment of the donation contract of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation as regards the Komotini Hospital. And this is where there should be political convergence, because those who have seen the mattresses, the plans and the presentation of this hospital, I think they will agree that this is the health system that we want to have, and on the basis of this plan, there should be the necessary convergence. Unfortunately, the Civic Opposition appears to be the "king of the king" without making the slightest criticism. Yes, proceed to the contract. I would remind you, however, that last year when we voted to amend the donation contract, it also voted against the relevant article in this House and today you say that we were doing so at the "Norarch", and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u233	We voted to change the legal status of the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u234	You voted against the article, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Blonde, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u236	I said, unfortunately, that micro-participatory feasibility prevailed and you did not want to see how modern health systems are evolving. Fortunately, we had the opportunity to make changes both to this convention and to other projects that the government at the time had gone through the Niarchas Foundation. Because it is true that what was said by the Qualified Opposition that the Greek State made the proposal to the Niarch Foundation in order to finance these donations. This is not the time to go back to the old, but you remember the modification as to the donation with the circles, which elsewhere you put the PET CT and elsewhere the circles. Will you vote today on the article? Do you agree with the amendment of this convention? I'm sorry Mr. Marcus is missing from the Chamber. He referred to the fact that we dissolve the National Health System and we left only the "bombs". I'm sorry why he's not here. He'll read it in the Minutes. He was the one who wouldn't leave his office's knob on the Central Board of Health as President and MP at the same time. He said that the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation made this donation because he considered that SYRIZA's government did good administration in health finances. I imagine that Mr Marku, who I justify because he is a doctor, is not referring to the unpunished expenditure - a factor which the previous government inherited us when we took over the country's governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u237	Translated debts, why did they go up?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u238	They're falling, Mr. Xanthi. The issue of vaccination has been exhausted by the Minister, I would just like to refer to the amendment, both at home and at home, and to what both Mr Xanthos and Mr Poulas have said. You said to us: 'When will the home-to-house vaccination begin?' And it is indeed a project and they will immediately begin, as soon as the FEK of this law comes out, the law that we are going to vote on today, and once some formal procedures have been completed. We certainly know, Mr Poula, and how to get the vaccines on the house and how to move the vaccines under what conditions and how the doctor has to deal with an incident at home, if he has any side effect. As far as the other provisions of the amendment on vaccinations and the conduct of tests are concerned, I would remind you that tests were carried out last year as well throughout the country as well. And this year more because tourists who come to the country should return to their country with tests, either rapid test or molecular tests. The price is priced, as it already stands for the Greek market. And for those who come in the tourist season. Of course, in all this action plan that we had in order to protect the population and to circulate safely and smoothly in the tourist period, I would remind you of the case of self-tests, for which almost all the wings of the National Representation were accused, and finally it proved to be one of the most useful tools to limit the transmission and spread of the virus and to enable us to have data available to us in particular asymptomatic patients.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u239	Half of it was make.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Micopulus said we were closing everything in the three hundred cases, and we opened it in the five thousand cases. Others were the conditions when we closed and when we had a lockdown and under different conditions the country returns to normality. We have more tests, we have self-tests, we have vaccination, we have more "weapons" at our disposal, and surely the conditions are different. I am pleased that Mr Zachariadis starting his speech with emphasis that we should all do the vaccine and I imagine your colleague in SYRIZA, Mr Paulakis, listened to it. Because there has been mention before I say about self-tests, I shall refer, Mr Xanthi, to what you said about the ministerial decision on the fully vaccinated. We all know that in order to issue a vaccination certificate one should be fully vaccinated. The prescribed doses must have been given and a period of time must have elapsed after the first dose, if the single dose is present, or after the second dose, if the two-dose vaccine is present. We do not yet have the scientific data at our disposal to see what happens next year. Are we gonna have a third dose? Are we going to have a repetition of vaccination? It is therefore right to determine how the fully vaccinated person is to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u241	The voucher will take it with a dose?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Xanthi, please. You were the Minister. I have the impression that there shouldn't be a vacation. You said with comfort your opinions by first and second. Let the Minister say his own positions. This is the democratic process envisaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u243	I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u244	There are always disagreements. Everyone listens, judges, compares and draws their conclusions. Please warmly. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u245	I shall also refer to the self-self-test provision in supermarkets. You all know what's happened. There was and there was agreement with the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association for the free disposal to the citizens of these tests. There have been some clubs that did not want to continue, although they have now changed their minds. In fact, we have made a legislative improvement in this provision, you will see it. Because we'll be able to go to the supermarkets if there's a refusal from a local pharmaceutical association to distribute these tests. In fact, it was clearly set up in our meeting with the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association. The work of the state is to protect fellow citizens and to ensure the smooth disposal and distribution of these tests to citizens. That's what we do. And we said from the outset that we'd be looking for alternative distribution channels. Do not fall off the clouds. In all the countries of Europe this is done. Mr. Xanthi, you're telling us that we're heading a slippery street when your government voted for the disposal of the drugs, the GEDEFA, in the supermarkets.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u246	How much were the GENEFA at the rate...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u247	Are we going to talk with percentages or drugs? You're telling us we're putting them in the supermarkets.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Xanthi, please. Minister, if you can, don't use a brand name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u249	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u250	Apocalypse, we're going to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Blonde, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u252	With regard to the provision for the incompatibility between a member of a co-operative of pharmacists and a member of a board of pharmaceuticals, Mr Meikopoulou said - or another Member of Parliament - that five and a half thousand pharmacists are excluded from their participation in the management bodies. They're not five and a half thousand pharmacists. They are only members of the boards of Pharmaceutical Cooperatives, not all members, pharmacists, pharmacist cooperatives. And it's incompatible. And tell you why. Because addiction relationships are being created which are mainly related to commercial policy. A member of a cooperative association who goes down to the local pharmaceutical club - because it is done, do not close our eyes - in order to fish for votes imagine how he can try to influence a pharmacist. And in this provision, as you have read, there is a legislative improvement in the case where antiquities have already taken place and no new management board has yet been established. They have been told by various Members of Parliament about the extensions we are giving. We've got a pandemic. I wish we were done, you said it, and we said it. The pandemic's not over yet. I wish we had finished and returned to normality. The pandemic, however, is not over, and indeed there are the arrangements for the extensions we are giving, which must remain after the pandemic. For example, it is the case that medicines are sent to vulnerable groups that cannot be moved. That's not a pandemic thing. We started this because of the pandemic, it is now being extended and it will have to stay and then, like many other things that have happened during the pandemic. As far as nursing skills are concerned. It is a great reform in the field of nursing of nurses, and this provision provides for adding specialties to the already adopted programme. And doctors are specializing. Don't we want nurses, specialists? There are specialist nurses all over the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u253	Is there a training program?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u254	There is, Mr. Xanthi. And Article 4, on the establishment of primary health care providers by non-profit organisations and public-private organisations. You found the opportunity to attack and say that there is no primary health care and that we grant primary health care again to private sector bodies and other organisations. Do you know what we're doing? We're putting order. We're setting rules. We're setting terms and conditions. You can imagine a municipal office or a medical office operating under the aegis of a non-governmental organisation, in an immigrant centre. There are no terms and conditions in these medical establishments. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u255	Are you doing this for immigrants now? Are you kidding us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u256	No, Mr. Bright. There are other actions. There are other bodies. I've given one example. Get the fuck out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u257	That's not a mess. It's a question! You're not listening well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u258	But I'm telling you, the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, the Pan-Hellenic Dental, all those who do health activities. The primary doctors know that they don't have any terms and conditions of operation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u259	You're making fun of the world. That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u260	Don't interrupt, Mr. Bright. Please. You may disagree, but they don't need a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u261	They've got to get rules in here at last. Mr Poulas has been mentioned, and we have responded repeatedly to the issue of donations. We have said that since the first time that we will certainly bring the donations to the House. The pandemic is not over and donations are still on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u262	Tell us something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u263	Let me let you know. There'll be a full account. Don't worry. Of course, something has been said about funding health expenditure. At the moment we have exceeded EUR 900 million in excess of the health system for the needs of the coronary, and the estimate by the end of the year is that we will exceed EUR 1.3 billion. We were told to ensure access to treatments. From the first day of the pandemic there has been no treatment, to any of our fellow citizens in the National Health System who needed medical care, whether hospitalized or not, free of charge. Let me remind you that we are in all agreements, both for vaccines and for other medicines, such as the common European supply for remdecvir and the common European supply for monoclonal antibodies, for which there has been a great deal of talk, where we expect authorisation from the European Medicines Agency. You saw what's happening today in America. Some monoclonal due to mutations are withdrawn from the market. That is why we have said from the start that we must be careful and follow the decisions of the competent regulatory body, the European Medicines Agency. I am pleased, Mr Xanthi, because you do indeed have in your positions and explosions of realism that differentiate you from the rest of SYRIZA. I am not referring to Mr Polakis for the vaccines he has said, but to what you said that it is impossible for all contractors to simulate from one day to the next, and all contractors must take steps carefully and with design. That's what the government does. As we have committed ourselves to the proclamation of four thousand nursing staff, nine hundred extra staff posts, six hundred doctors about the next few days and, of course, two and a half thousand permanent posts of medical staff so far. And I say that for one more reason. Because it matters what Opposition says. Because opposition must also be constructive. Because yesterday Mr Triantafylides said in his position: 'It does not matter what the opposition says, it matters what the government says.' No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would like, Mr President, a few more minutes. I will not close because I still have something to say about what Mr Blonde said about the management of the pandemic. The government, the National Health System has endured and endured. It changed into the pandemic, changed, and created the deposit so that we could move on to the necessary changes needed by the health system. And he endured for certain reasons: Firstly, we supported the public health system, which is annoying you. Secondly, we did not calculate the political cost. We made tough decisions when the world had to see a serious government. When Mr. Tsiodras announced dead in interviews and increased cases and Mr. Chardalias strictly measures, the Greek people did. And he passed away for one more reason. Because we told the truth and we didn't hide anything. We have seen what happened in other states where the voices of populism prevailed, such as your friends, the Podemos, the co-operation government that took part in Spain and other states, in the management of the damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u264	Okay, are you serious? Rahoi's party called Sanchez a "killer"! The Spanish Prime Minister called him "killer"! Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u265	You spoke of quality and call on Mr Mossilos whenever it suits you, because you said about immunity walls which need to be built. Mr Mosialos had said at your own event about the health system that we should not only look at quantitative data in the health system but also quality data. Well, quality matters. You didn't vote for ODP, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u266	An anonymous company is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u267	You got stuck there again in the fact that he's a legal person under private law. Whatever suits you! That's why I'm talking about micro-party purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u268	What's he done?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u269	You have also referred to infamous public-private partnerships, which, as a caramel, are using it to privatise the system. I repeat: Public private partnerships are a financial instrument. Instead of getting a loan, you're making a partnership. When the citizen comes and receives a service or goes to a new hospital, which has been done with PPP and does not pay, is it a privatisation of the health system? What bothers you to get insurance companies into the health system? Do you like where they're going to the private sector, the private hospitals? Why not come to the public insurance companies of private insurance so that we can improve the income of staff in public hospitals?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u270	I will ask for the floor in the management.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u271	And, of course, because reference was made to the evaluation of both the governors, which of course goes ahead and we will be faithful to our commitment and to the assessment of structures, because the pandemic has given us the opportunity to see not only the weak points of the National Health System, as we like to speak only about the weak, but also to see the strong points of the health system and so to be able to build, because we have begun to see after the pandemic, the new National Health System. We were given the opportunity to strengthen it both in human resources and in financial resources and equipment and we will continue to support and strengthen it. The principles of the National Health System remain unchanged. However, there are structural and operational issues which must finally be resolved. We want the citizen to serve and meet the needs of each of them. We support and support the public health system. We're building the new National Health System. We know how to do it. It is the last chance that our country has and we will do so and we invite all the parties of the National Representation to join us in order to move forward together and build the new National Health System. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u274	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u275	Will the Minister accept the amendments? The committee has not been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u276	It has been placed on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u277	Today he didn't tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u278	What amendments are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u279	To go out and say he doesn't accept them. Let him come out and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u280	He said what he was accepting. When you're accepting something, it goes without saying that what you don't say is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u281	No, he doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u282	It is never possible, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u283	We're not on the kidnapping spot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u284	We have been serving the Chamber for years and from these benches down. Now we're both Vice Presidents. The Minister said what he was accepting. The rest, when he doesn't mention it, obviously he doesn't accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u285	So it doesn't accept them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is adjourned: "Follow it from 24.3.2021 an amendment from 3.2.20 individual donation contract for Project I [Annex 5 to the Act]. 4564/2018] and its amendment from 13.5.2021 of 6.9.2018 donation contract between Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation and the Hellenic State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure and its annexes, arrangements for the treatment of Coronary Pandemic COVID -19 and other provisions. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of 90 articles, of seven amendments, of the farewell article and of the entire bill. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u287	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u288	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u289	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Repeal it from 24.3.2021 to amend it from 3.2.20 individual donation contract for Project I [Annex 5 to the Law]. 4564/2018] and its amendment of 13.5.2021 from 6.9.2018 to the donation contract between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructures and its annexes, arrangements to deal with the CIVID pandemic -19 and other provisions" were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of the following, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u291	The House has given the mandate requested. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-29-S1-commons.u292	With the consent of this House at 19.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 30 June 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
