ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Environment, Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, the Ministries of State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development, Investment, Interior, and the Secretary of State for Civil Protection submitted on 12-7-2021 a draft law on the management of waste - Incorporation of the Directives 2018/851 and 2018/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste, the framework for the establishment of the Greek Recycling Agency, provisions on plastic products, emergency arrangements for the protection of the natural environment and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: (a) first subparagraph: (b) first subparagraph, (c) first subparagraph, (c) and (d) of Article 2(1), second subparagraph, first subparagraph, of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, second subparagraph, of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, second subparagraph, of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, third subparagraph, of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Fundamental Freedoms, third paragraph, of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Fundamental Freedoms, of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Fundamental Freedoms. The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting of 8 July 2021, to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform at the outset and on articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that rapporteurs, special speakers, Parliamentary Representatives, a first cycle, including one speaker from each Parliamentary Group and a twelve-way circle of speakers should participate with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. A teleconference service or physically present is also proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. He asks whether he agrees with this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Themistoklis Himaras, now has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u3	Good morning and thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement which comes to be ratified today is the culmination of an enormous effort of almost two years, so that the northern part of the E65 finally takes flesh and bone, following a series of delays, postponements and modifications to the original contract, which had not even come out of the map. This is another tangible result of the political and systematic work of the Government of New Democracy and, personally, of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who responds to our election promises to the Greek people for projects of an appropriate range of infrastructure, which can strengthen the Greek economy and drastically accelerate the definitive recovery of our country. The motorway of central Greece, with a total length of 181.5 km, is a work of key importance to our country. It connects the eastern and western Greece, contributes decisively to the development of the Greek region and forms part of the trans-European transport networks. It is fully constructed in new design and its design is based on the most modern international standards, with full respect for the environment. Today's contract is literally beginning this time the construction of the northern part of E65 from Trikala and Kalambaka to Egnatia, which will connect the two most important national roads, PATHE and Egnatia. This part, 70.5 km long, with a current budget of 442 million euros, has been classified as "blocked" by the amendment of the Convention in 2013, due to the inability to finance the project on the national side. Article 1 of this Legislation introduces the proposed agreement to amend the provisions of the concession in order to enable the State to initiate the work of the project. But let's start over. In total, E65 consists of 181.5 km of road network, extends from Antheli Fthiotidas, where it joins PATH, and runs the Falconic and Thessaic plain reaches the mountain range of the Chasia, which joins Pindos to finally connect to Ennatia. His story begins in 2007 with the signature of a year later - in 2008 - of the first contract for the construction of the grandest, at the time, of an axis - connecting link, which would actually unite eastern and western Greece and thus the country with Europe, since it is part of the trans-European road network. In 2011, in the heart of the economic crisis, the project freezes, to start in 2013 only the middle part, Trikala - Xyniada, which was considered the most mature, with the 570 out of the 825 million euro total being covered by European funds. In 2013, the then New Democracy Government renegotiates the concession agreement with the Commission in order to find a solution to the issue of funding. At the end of 2017, the eighty-kilometres of this section are released, while in October 2018 the European Commission approves EUR 306 million for the southern part, Xyniada-Lamia, which starts in 2019 and is expected to be completed in 2022. The northern part remains unfunded until last January. The persistent negotiations of the Greek Government and of the Prime Minister himself with the Commission, the successive contacts of the Minister of Infrastructure with the European Commissioner, yield fruit and thus the northern part takes the road to construction. The Recovery Fund will be the source of the valuable financial resources for its construction, since the project is inextricably linked to the energy transition of Western Macedonia. More detailed, the project - I said - is 70.5 km, a budget of 442 million euros, a three-year construction, with 2+2 strips and, of course, LEA. Specifically, they will be built: Two tunnels with a total length of sixty-five meters and four hundred meters. Two excavation and re-engagement tunnels with a total length of two hundred and sixty-four meters and an hundred and eighty meters per address. Thirty-one bridges and upper-readings. Six knots, while completing the Trikalon node. Two farm and maintenance centres. A frontal toll station and three side stations. All along the project, parking and rest areas will be built, as well as a new secondary road network for the service of, obviously, neighbouring areas. Today, all the environmental studies of the section have been completed, a significant part of the expropriations, and in particular from the one hundred and tenth to the thirteenth mile, technical studies have been carried out, expropriations, network movements and archaeological surveys have been completed. General construction progress, before postponing work, was 7%, while for the Trikala-Kalabaka part, this figure is 25%. Anti-military works, a network of ovaries, earthworks and small technical works have already been built. The new engraving from the 30th-sixth-sixth-sixth-kilometre to the end of the project at a lower altitude than the original planned engraving favours the safety and operational conditions, reducing construction costs and environmental impacts. I come to the benefits that will result from the construction and, of course, the tradition of E65 in full operation, which, as we all understand, is multitude and directly apparent. Firstly, transport safety and speed. The interconnection of central and northern Greece, through a modern highway, will drastically reduce the time to travel, increasing the level of road safety. It is actually the highway that will connect Athens to western Macedonia, but also Italy through the port of Igoumenitsa, as well as the Western Balkans and from there to Central and Northern Europe. For example, the distance from Athens - Grevena is covered in about four hours, Athens - Karpenisi and Athens - Trikala in three hours, the route Lamia - Ennatia at 1.5 hours is now about 2.5 hours, while the total journey from the port of Piraeus to the Western Balkans will be reduced by about 2 hours. Secondly, it is obvious that the absorption of Community funds contributes to the rapid and sustainable transition of Western Macedonia. As I said before, the project is financed by resources from the Recovery Fund. The region of western Macedonia, starting with a fundamental change of economic and social life through famine, is gaining accessibility. The area through the E65 comes out of isolation and is connected with the rest of Greece, easily, quickly, safely, but also with a positive environmental footprint, which will contribute catalyticly to the support of businesses and the attraction of new investment projects. Thirdly, the creation of new jobs and a contribution to regional development. Increasing the construction market, a neural sector of the economy, as well as employment in the area of project execution, is being achieved. The construction of the northern section is expected to contribute about 0.5% to the country's GDP while over a thousand jobs are expected to be created in the course of work. At the same time, the reduction of travel time will have a positive impact on tourist traffic, as destinations such as Karpenisi, Meteora, Metsovo and others will come "more close" to the large urban centers. Analogously positive will also be the impact on the use of public transport and, of course, on the transport of goods and products more easily and more quickly from the edges of mainland Greece, to and from the European markets. It is thus achieved to promote the development of the regions of Western Macedonia, Epirus, Thessaly and, of course, Central Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Greek Motorway literally unites the country. It takes out entire regions from isolation and creates the necessary conditions for the development of the Greek region. One such example is my place, Phthytida, Lamia. With the completion of the E65, in conjunction with the modern PATHE, which is a member of the E75 European Road, as well as the upgrading of the railway line and the ports of the region, it acquires the potential of a national strategic freight and transport centre. On this point, I could not omit a reference to another ambitious, complex project, but it can give a great boost to the trade relations between Central Greece and the Peloponnese and, of course, to the tourist movement. This is the 'Axis Lamia-Antirio', on which the debate on financing through Community funds has already begun. It is worthy of praise for the initiative of our good friend and Secretary-General of Parliament's Group, Mr Giannis Bouga, to which I have stated from the outset that I will be present. Dear Minister, this road axis will allow for a faster and safer transition from Central Greece and Thessaly to Western and South Greece and will connect PATHE to the Ionian Road. It is a major infrastructure and development project that can reduce the distance of Patras - Lamia by twenty-five kilometers, make safe the journey on a road, which is now characterised by its risk, open new commercial and travel routes, connecting the port of Patras to the port of Stylopi and Volos and upgrading the role of the bridge Rio - Antirios. It is the last piece of the puzzle - which is why I put it - so that every region of the country is fully accessible in the best, safe and fast way. Our government has proven sensitive reflexes. I am sure that we are using up all possible means to implement this project and possibly integrate it into resources from the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, after two years of difficulty, with the global health crisis shaping new data on economies and social relations, the New Democracy Government continues to walk on the path of consistency of words and works. Allow me here to comment, which is reflected in the historical regression towards the stages in the implementation of the project, the E65 which I mentioned earlier. It is clearly reflected in this historic regression, ladies and gentlemen, the government's time-consuming contribution to the realisation of major projects, such as the E65 road that we are discussing today. All the governments, all the ministers, work uninterruptedly, hand over to the next ones the battalion of supply to the public. This is why these projects are not "coloured", they do not belong to political groups, exclusively to Greek citizens. Allow me here to state my satisfaction as a new politician, because this opinion has often been expressed by a politician representing exactly the logic of our generation, the Minister present, Mr Karamanlis. The Minister of Infrastructure and his partners, not only, have not been inactive, not only have they not been disoriented, but with absolute targeting, methodicity, programming and hard work, without hasty and unreliable announcements, managed to give new impetus to public infrastructure projects. This means automatically, I repeat, the achievement of two top objectives of the Greek Government, which are completely interlinked with public infrastructure, work and development. For these reasons, I urge you to vote for the ratification of this amending agreement, for the construction and completion of the E65, of the vital for the rapid and safe movement of people and the movement of goods by road that is appropriate in a modern European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. We will now continue with Mr Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the present procedure will not be another repetition of parliamentary practice, where a contract will become the starting point for a storm of amendments. I put it as an inconvenience at the beginning of the procedure, and I hope I will be disproved. We were chosen to discuss the ratification of the E65 road contract today. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this road has started on SYRIZA. You ignored it, obviously, negligently. It has been delayed for two years and comes through the contract with an additional cost of EUR 38 million. This was the case in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights during the debate on the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u6	Have you ensured funding too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u7	The reservation is mainly about your weak spot. Your weak point, ladies and gentlemen, not only in infrastructure but in general, for two years now, is transparency in the financing of projects and actions and your attempt to highlight something you do not want to tell the citizens. Mr Karamanlis, however, made the point in the committee's debate that the agenda should be opened beyond the E65. He wanted to enlarge it. I can understand why. Under pressure from the real events - and not just from the ratification of the convention, which I wonder whether it will be the only reason why the Prime Minister Mitsotakis will honour us with his presence in the House at 12.00 p.m., I do not know whether this is the reason and reason or the explanation of what he said, that freedoms in this country are only entitled to those who are entitled to them or who are entitled to them only those who have to say so, I just want to understand - the Minister wanted to enlarge the agenda, perhaps because he has recently come to the people's real view of the Mitsotakis Government. This has happened at the Venizelos station. He considered at the committee's meeting that the Step of the House could be a step that would be relentlessly and irreversibly perverting reality, with only one argument, an outdated anti-SYRIZA rhetoric. I heard yesterday again some whispers from the same member of the government about 'SYRIZA-channel', about difficulties in some projects charged by SYRIZA and some such excuses. There is something very specific before that, though. Since there were no answers to specific questions, for example, about the 38 million ECU for E65, even more important to the metro, about how the Recovery Fund was designed, for the two years of inertia of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, a dilemma was raised, in my opinion, right: the sovereign criterion should be the comparison of governments with what has been done at each time. I think it is absolutely right. But this is also a rag for such a bad government as Mr Mitsotakis. Because it is not your mind, because of the addiction to self admiration, that there is another audience apart from the idiots and those who depend on the Petsa list, but also the Furtitites, who are always next to power. If not always, mostly in your days. So to compare what has happened these two years by the Mitsotakis Government and where there is inertia: the connections between ports, railways and roads - there is complete inertia - in ports, networks, large projects and transport. Here, we're stopping. I won't get too much on the means of transport. You know, it is now considered self-proof, even for the better poll on New Democracy, the discontent among the citizens on these issues. It is a trick, as was the recommendation of the Parliament's Scientific Committee on Labour. Since I am not used to following the logic of "flying feathers", let me take it in your library, a survey of the Institute of Consumers of Thessaloniki, where three out of four citizens put forward in a survey of the government their displeasure over what has been done over the last two years, while it was described as a great success for intervention in transport. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the field of transport and transport, the single sleeves, which were actually killed, are for photographs and retouched procures. That's why you'll never find a picture of the competent ministers in the world, in real conditions. You won't find anyone. There, they don't speak the press releases. There, it's not reality. Communication's talking. You will not find any photos on the subway, on the OSH, on one of the detonators - it is not the wrong word - buses of Leipzig in Thessaloniki, those flaming in the middle of the street to travel some meters and paid gold. Of course, I am absolutely certain - and I have Mr Bukouros before me - that dozens of self-confidential politicians and politicians in the New Democracy would not have been lured into the unprecedented trap, the crystallized phenomenon, for ten months to defend one's obsessedly and unequivocally that the virus is not particularly transmitted to the means of transport. You know what it took? It has had to occur directly, to see for the first time in a Legislative document of the Ministry of Infrastructure the assumption that the virus sticks to both buses and metro. This is a sample, indeed, of what irresponsibility and arrogantness means. When not accompanied by Powerpoint, captivity and usurpation of others' work are even worse. I can add more: inauguration, ribbons, ribbons, reproduction of the same script on the Northern Axis of Crete, the NSATH, which is at risk of becoming a "fillet" perhaps even opaque political process. I would remind you that the Civil Aviation Protection Authority has been institutionalised and, at the moment, airport controls are almost a joke. Let's go down, because there's the most important thing. The most important thing in this ministry, talking about an important project, such as E65, which relates to infrastructure and transport, apart from the question mark and the gap for 38 million, is - I am transporting it as a policy element, which bears the signature of barbarity and international conflict - the secondment of the ancient Venizelos. What did the Council of State decide? By a marginal majority of thirteen, twelve thirteen Judges shall consider the secondment to be legal, while twelve Judges shall consider the secondment to be non-legal. In a much simpler sense, of course, the thirteen majority judges. Dealer's decision. But what does this decision really say? It is not illegal to secondment, but it is not defined anywhere that it is the only solution. Only government officials claim this, because they still fear truth and civil society. You know, what's civil society? The citizens who have rightly observed - I said this yesterday and I say it with great respect and protection of the political standing and status of a minister - and they described you, Mr Karamanlis, as walking with a puffy head in Thessaloniki, unfortunately, are not graphical, they are not few, they are neither SYRIZA nor provocators. I am members of civil society, a worthy treaty, which respects and strengthens the European Union, the Europe that we want to become, not the banana that leads us to conclude. So these graphics have mobilised twenty thousand citizens, not only in Thessaloniki, but throughout the world. They mobilized academics and intellectuals from every corner of the earth. They have formulated, with a very thorough and precise reason, that what you are going to do is a global cultural crime. But do you know what you're hearing? You listen only to yourself. Satisfied mainly by the echo of yourself. I would take too many minutes to testify to you documents, interviews, testimony, protests. I will only be in two that are directly related to the country's break-up abroad. One is a publication of "FIGARO". I assure you, SYRIZA does not publish it, it is not a subsidiary of the newspaper “FIGARO”. I give you my word. And the "FRANKFORTER ALLGEINE", one of the largest German newspapers, says in this front page, is also not the document of the newspaper that supports SYRIZA. Title: "Scandalo in Thessaloniki. Greece gathers its ancients." For those who have German education, 'cooks' is'shows', 'cuts' in German. I'm filing both of them. Of course, Mr. Corres and Mrs. Mendoni agree. Third, I don't know if there is. In any case, you have reached the point outside the deliberately self-interpretation of the decision, also invoke the support of the Mayor of Thessaloniki, the regional director and other bodies. Unfortunately for you, as you are used to, you omit half the narrative that is half the truth, the one you describe as supporters when they asked for the vote of the citizens, for all that they did not say a word, acted 'Maria of silence'. Now, of course, that the political conditions are mature, they are clearly consistent with the crime of Mitsotakis with signatures of Karamanlis, Mendoni, and so on. The crime in Venizelos as much as you obviously do as an expert do not recognize as the Byzantine 'Popia' - they recognize it, of course, internationally renowned scientists, you have more know-how, you do not recognize it as a Byzantine 'Copia' - it gives us an answer to why all this is happening. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, that is what happens because, as long as the metro is closed and we have the triple of dates - 23, 24, 25, it is about 26 - the great 'partisan' in the transport, OSTH, which until the metro is completed has the monopoly on the transport of citizens. It's a party whose votes have a name. It's the bus leasing, it's the direct assignments, it's a series of opaque and authoritarian decisions. One of them is the judgment of this House. How does a driver in this country who sincerely indignantly leads a bus without a handbrake to be put on a ten-day holiday, why did he tell the truth? Does it look democratic to you? Does Voltaire seem to you in the spirit and the views he left in history? No, of course not. It seems absurd ten days' holiday, because he revealed that he had to drive a car without a brake! One example we conclude that you are so greedy and full of bulimia that you do not hold any pretexts. There is, of course, another challenging distortion of the truth that Mr Karamanlis personally owes. He usually bakes us or in a teacher's style, he says: 'Why don't you come to parliamentary control and say it all over there?' But, and when we come, you don't answer. It has happened recently with the question of concealing the OSH asset valuation report, which you did not answer and turned into a timely question. I am sure, however, that you have, Mr Karamanlis, the adequacy of the Greek language, when they simply ask you to come up with simple and brave answers. For example, for the 38 million to seven and a half miles, it is a very simple question. What did we collect? Listen. The answer was: 'Don't cause me, because I will tell you what you have been feeding'. I am quoting you: you obviously have it, it is a European technical term of dialogue. 'What you have fed to concessionaires', see what we have been feeding. There are other simple questions. When will the subway of Thessaloniki be delivered? Just talking. Why did the 12 stations that could work for the citizens for the pandemic not run or try to fill the gap in transport through the OSH? No answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two minutes, perhaps from my denology. I understand, therefore, that there is a tradition in the Ministry of Infrastructure, a tradition that is difficult to root despite four and a half years of complete transparency. It's the tradition that Michalis Liapis, Tasos Mandelis, inherited and goes by saying. You're haunted by two things. One explains your conjugative anti - SYRIZA obsessed with everything good or bad you have to say about the country. Because you were quite simply on the staff who took part in the bankruptcy of the country in 2009, you then manned Antonis Samaras' escape boat with Greece bankrupt and poor, then asked for the change to save us, deteriorated the situation and escape in 2014. When you escaped, you did not leave a single euro in the funds of this country, fully looted and exhausted. On the opposite: In the summer of 2019 you received a country from a government that did not follow your traditions and that is why you are obsessed with it. The most honest government that did not follow the traditions of Liappi - Mandeli. What can we do? That's the truth. You want to change the story? We should change it. This historical truth is perhaps the only one that will pass in history, beyond you, beyond me, beyond what is being discussed in this Chamber, and above all, I believe that you are even more afraid of four-dimensional 'austerism - lies - patriotism - trembling', which led you to power. Now that there is the serious possibility of all this being punished, because you have revealed your true face to those who have deceived, but also to those who have shown who are really in the pandemic, what you fear is the power of proposals, which touch both sides and the deceived Greeks, as well as those who were...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u8	Take time from your dentistry. You've already taken three minutes. I'm telling you this, so you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u9	I'll be done in a minute. So the minimum wage frightens you all that creates prospects, hope and optimism for Greek citizens. One last thing, Mr Karamanlis, because when you find it difficult, you resort to personal insults, or you think that poetry, vexation and arrogance, innate or acquired, is a political weapon, and so that you do not think your sorrow in parrots and trolls alters the truth or achieves blows to our political opponents. I want to assure you that I have not been infected with the majestic virus. I follow as much as I can advice from another Karamanlis, the former Prime Minister, who had advised the political staff "shortly and humblely", as far as I can, I do not say that I always manage. But I want to assure you, because this New Democracy is a long way from today, that I, Mr Karamanlis, have not inherited anything in politics, nor in the past, in my view, the carpet of election, nor inherited seats without expiry dates, that I have been working since my seventeen years in the private sector and in ERT3, which you have so often referred to as the same ensemble as in 2013 that you have shut it down, through the country across Europe. I hope you remember that because, as Mr Stamatis said, the former Minister, "he had gone too far. I was elected, Mr Karamanlis, in the furnace of the peak of darkness and patriocapelia, which you created in 2019 and I intend to serve my place, without mechanisms and tricks. Because you like stories, that's what I'm gonna close. You know, there was a time, not too far away - I am sure that Mr Scandalides as an elder in the Chamber might remember - when the newspapers had some remarkable announcements, they drew the attention of the world, they became part of history, unfortunately they were also confirmed over time. I cannot, therefore, at some point in Serres, Messinia, Crete, read such an announcement by the citizens, who would say: 'Birded male, it is intended to become a Member of Parliament, Minister, perhaps a Prime Minister'. Pick you who thinks you're superior to all the others, to whom it fits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleague, you understand that your time for dentistry has been closed. So you don't have any dentistry. We're continuing with Mr. Christo Goka from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the resolution of L.4219/2013 and the amendments of the original concession agreements between the Greek State and the concessionaires for the four major motorways of PATHE, Olympia Street, Ionian Road and Central Greece in E65, there was also the provision for the well-known deferred parts of E65, the southern part of Imitumbus PATHE - Xenia thirty-two kilometers, which, under the Convention of 2018, is about 70%, as well as for the northern section of thirty-two kilometers Trikala - Grevena and Grevena - Egnatia 30 km, which is currently set at thirty-eight kilometers. But after 2013 we then had the SYRIZA-ANEL government, which, with its unfortunate management and obsessions, caused delays both in the implementation of concessions and in the construction of the three deferred parts of the E65, so that we would go to ten years instead of three years of the original projection, if all is well developed, for the completion of the mainland motorway. Ladies and gentlemen, through this development of the major projects in particular, we must draw on experiences and lessons which will be useful for the following projects. We are talking about overtime projects involving different governments in different stages until they are implemented. However, they are works which, in any case, belong to the Greek people. I also mentioned to the committee and despite any objections, that the reality is that the current and then Civic Opposition - 2013 - which had a strong denouncing reason for the agreement to amend the conventions, but also for those who were positive at that time and voted against it, had no problem in launching, by fragmentation, each small part that had been completed on their own, without any invitation to anyone else and while those delays up to two years on all the axes caused an extra cost of around EUR 500 million, as additional compensation. During the period 2015-2019 no major projects were carried out, while roadworks were stagnated like BOAK or went backwards like the Patras to Tower after the adventure of his division into eight contractors, roads on which we constantly have accidents, and unfortunately, human lives are lost. However, we have the same picture in both years of the New Democracy Government with delays and stagnation in the execution of public works. We don't see new construction sites. In practice, no major project proceeded with construction until recently after the signing of a contract for the single contractor of the Ambrose-Aktius axis. The latest mobility resulting from the fundamentals of the Recovery Fund creates developments, in other cases such as the BOAK, in other cases such as the implementation and construction of the E65, but there are also issues to be discussed. We, ladies and gentlemen, understand the importance and value of large infrastructures. You are speaking, Minister, about the 13 billion-billion-dollar programme, which we too are positive when they came to the debate in Parliament. First of all, however, there has been no debate and dialogue on the programme of these projects. Go ahead with your own choices. Secondly, it does not concern an integrated plan for the whole of transport infrastructure, motorways, ports and rail networks. There has been no debate on the needs and opportunities available on the occasion of more than 90 billion resources available for the next programming period and the inclusion of value added actions. As you also know, there is always a wide range of programming, announcements and implementations. Therefore, here we are following developments. On the major national issues on our part, we are seeking the dialogue for each sector to support these issues, such as the original motorway conventions, a process that began in 2000 and which was to be ratified by Parliament in 2007. And then, as PASOK, we voted positively, despite our serious references to lion contracts with the model as designed, for weaknesses in relation to the timetables for authorisations and expropriations that were suffocating to the public. We voted in favour because of the great national importance of these projects, although previous major contracts such as the Rios-Antirios bridge, the Attiki road, the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport had only been passed by the PASOK party. The data in the economy were then changed after 2007, and there were expected long delays in preparing these projects for environmental or archaeological approvals or for expropriations. Thus, we arrived in 2013 and the amendment of the contracts, which also covered the financial gap that was created, avoiding the risk of the collapse of contracts that would have greater economic costs and, above all, would be at the expense of trying to return the country to a development orbit. Finally after the 2018 amendment that we also voted on the implementation of the southern part of E65, we now have the ratification of the new agreement with the amendment to the construction of the northern part. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, this project is financed by the public with its integration into the national recovery plan together with the BOAK. This is where the question arises as to the other motorways, which are still pending, why are they not financed - since we can integrate such projects - and those from the Recovery Fund, or why are there no plans for accession to other financial programmes such as the new NSRF in view of their national and strategic importance and the possibility of absorbing resources? Of course - I spoke beforehand about dialogue - you have made sure that the National Recovery Plan is not discussed in Parliament and that it goes ahead according to your own choices, where you proposed the rate of absorption, without ensuring long-term sustainable development, without a regional dimension, without a production dimension, without prior support for many, small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as EN65 is concerned, its integration will in fact make a decisive contribution to the development of the Greek region, the region of Thessaly in the region of western Macedonia and the region of Epirus, which is even more backward in growth, with high rates of unemployment and the impact of defoliation on western Macedonia. But there will also be a significant boost for local development and employment during the construction of this project, as well as the more permanent positive effects from parallel actions. With regard to the financial and technical aspects of the project, in your speech to the Committee, Minister, on the cost difference of the project - EUR 490 million in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, EUR 480 in the new AACC - you said that the cost is 442 million, while the recovery plan refers to EUR 452 million. You also mentioned that you will speak in plenary about the extra cost of 38m euros with your reference for a promise by the SYRIZA to the contract, while at another point you are talking about 38m euros for archaeology and expropriations. Minister, you have confused us a little, and I would ask you to explain them to us today in detail, so that we all know what is going on. 38 is a figure that we see in front of us all the time, as a magic number, since you also mention EUR 38 million in the operation of the motorway as a limit by 2038. Now, as far as all this is concerned, how this plan was designed for the performance of the project, for the compensation of the concessionaire but also for the level of tolls are concerned, we would like you to tell us what forecasts of the economic progress you have made. We also ask what the level of technical preparation of the project is in relation to all of the studies - environmental and technical studies, expropriations, network displacements, archaeological work, etc. - to enable the project to be carried out during the three years envisaged, without having compensation clauses this time due to delays on the part of the public authorities. In addition, will you give us information on the changes in the last section, Grevena - Egnatia, with the eight kilometres more and the consequences from a technical, environmental and economic point of view, resulting from changes in its construction? At the same time, it is important to resolve the problems created in local activities - agricultural, livestock, crafts and others - and in local traffic, as well as the completion of the construction of side roads. What is envisaged for this in this particular project? Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, E65 motorway is, in fact, a key road. It connects and integrates the major motorways through PATHE and Egnatia Road and is part of the trans-European transport networks. The impact on transport will be particularly important, by linking the three major ports - Piraeus, Volos, Igoumenitsa - and connecting to the rail network, establishing our country as a transit hub. It reduces the distance from the western Balkans to the port of Piraeus by two hours and connects the port of Igoumenitsa, which is the entrance gate of Greece to and from central Europe, with the port of Volos. In addition, road safety for citizens' traffic will be improved. However, ladies and gentlemen, the connection with the Balkans and hence with central and northern Europe remains incomplete, since you are not in agreement, Minister, anywhere and not even planned to be completed to the north of the Ionian Road by building the Ioannina section - Cakavia as a motorway, a project of particular social, development and national importance. On the contrary, you proceed to its degradation by planning for the construction of a digit and some parts of a three-eyed cross section. With your choice, however, our country of connection to the trans-European axes of central and northern Europe through the western Balkans that would reduce transport times and make use of all the infrastructures in the wider region: port of Igoumenitsa, airport of Ioannina and Acti, Egnatia Street, Ionia Street, E65 today. I would like to stress that no degradation of the work cannot be acceptable, as also to mention the disappointment of all the Continents and not just. This project Yannena - Cakavia must be reinstated to your priorities and programmed directly for construction as a normal highway. The resources available for the next few years do not justify the exclusion of this project, for which, before becoming a government, you were committed to its implementation, and of course, the vertical links that they expect, such as the ones of the Embassy with the Ionian and Egnatia Road, must also go ahead. In addition, the southern part of the western axis, the Ionian Road, must be completed today. In Article 5 of L.4219/2013 for the sections Patras - Tower - Chacona there are specific provisions for these sections. Seven years now and so far nothing has happened on both SYRIZA and the two years of governance of the New Democracy, which is, of course, changing the planning. Where exactly are developments on this axis? Are the approvals completed by the European Commission and how will this work ultimately be financed that can no longer be expected? What are the good news you are expecting - as you have told us in committee - that you listen, Minister? For the Pyrgos-Tsakona section, the provision for its completion and its connection with the other Corinth-Tripolis-Kalamata motorway concerned a similar process of construction from national and Community resources. This section has neither been done nor heard by anything. Is there, in the end, planning and planning by the government for this section? Also, with regard to the announcements for the BOAK and after two years without any development in the project, without construction sites, without any work, where everything has been stationary since 2011, I would like to say: This axis is also financed, as I said, by the Recovery Fund with EUR 427 million, and also by the State. It is a project in which you follow the logic of the previous government for a haircut project, a section east as a public project, a section - the central part - by PPP and a section by concession agreement, with different, i.e. financial tools and a non-complete project, since the Kissamos - Chania section is about a voluntary concession contract and the east to Sitia, after Agios Nikolaos, is in the air. The design and planning of the project with the unclear timetable - it is planned to start construction parts as a public project at the end of 2022 - but also with the haircut that you committed to change, creates reasonable concerns and doubts as to its completion, as well as about the timing of its construction. In addition, very high tolls and uniform tolls are provided for all sections, although the increased public participation with national and European resources does not justify this high price. The same applies, of course, to the E65 tolls that will be built with resources from the Recovery Fund. Toll policy is a long-standing issue which will concern us both with new axes and older ones. In any case, however, a fair charge should be restored and the application of a kilometre and proportional charge for motorway users should proceed as soon as possible by electronicising an appropriate application. We would like to hear about the actions of the Ministry and the developments that exist on this issue. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that it is very important to complete all the infrastructure relating to motorways, like the other infrastructure relating to the National Transport Network. The construction of the northern part of E65, of the Trikala - Egnatia section, which we are discussing today, completes the motorway of central Greece, connects eastern and western Greece and is, indeed, a project of great development and strategic importance, joining the trans-European transport networks. That is why we are voting positively for this ratification of this agreement, because we are interested in building the project as quickly as possible, reaffirming its importance and its contribution to the development of the region of Thessaly, neighbouring regions and our country, despite the absence from the government of a comprehensive development and productive reconstruction plan that insists on moving forward with the logic of "seeing and doing". It also denies institutional dialogue and consultation on a national plan to overcome the consequences of the health, economic and social crisis, in particular with regard to issues - such as what we are discussing today - of making use of the resources that we have before us, which are issues that go beyond the limits of a government term of office. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. As we have also placed in committee, this sanction is another one of the robbery conventions in the previous years and which, regardless of who was ruling - New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - the Change Movement - have at their centre the tradition of the country's national road corridors in the interests of business groups, which are reaping against people's incomes and the need to move, transport, imposing continuous and large increases in tolls, carpets which, together with the exorbitant cost of fuels, constantly add new burdens to the people by making the right to move very costly up to and away for workers, the populace layers. Here there is a complete match, a new Republic's understanding - SYRIZA - Change Movement. After all, it could not be different from when you accept, promote and implement alternately either from government positions or from the positions of the opposition the strategic choices of the European Union and capital and a development with a very clear class mark in favour of big capital, business groups, adding and constantly charging new burdens and suffering to the people. What do you all actually say to the people? "You will pay for the work to be constructed, but you will also pay the toll rafts to use it." Thus, for example, the project cost, the 490 million, as stated in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, will be covered by the State through the infamous Recovery Fund, which means, in practical terms, that this amount, as well as all the sums earmarked for our country from the Recovery Fund, will have to be paid and paid not only by the State tax on labour income which accounts for 90% and 95% of the revenue of government budgets, but also by new taxes on green, digital and not even the number that will be passed on to workers' backs. The contract we are discussing is a small example of how capital goes to load this capitalist crisis to the people too, of how capitalist recovery not only cannot meet the people's needs, but is conditional on their constant blow. So the notorious Recovery Fund is another memorandum that provides for money in queues for business groups with loans, grants and subsidies to be paid by our people, the people in the European Union, in a thousand ways, and in particular with new anti-grassroots, anti-grass reforms that are prerequisites for disbursements, as was the case with the previous memoranda you have all voted on. It is precisely what this convention shows, as does the experience of previous concessions, that major construction projects, like E65, are carried out on the basis of meeting and serving the objectives and planning of business groups and not on the basis of the well-being of the people. These are projects that bear the stamp of the European Union, form part of the recovery of the capitalist economy, which is why they are eligible, serving the strategic objectives of the European Union, business groups and all governments in our country over time for the conversion of Greece and the wider region into a hub of goods to the Balkans, Europe from Asia to Africa and elsewhere with the creation of road corridors linked to trans-European networks, transit centres, etc. Moreover, a glance at the map of the country is enough to find that these projects relate to the interconnection of domestic ports, airports, freight centres and their exit to the Balkans, central Europe, which serve the objectives set by the local bourgeoisie in order for Greece to become an international transit centre, but to be called upon to pay a heavy price both for the construction of roads and for the construction of the other infrastructures and networks. It is reaffirmed once again that it concerns another bill that capitalist growth, which has as its criterion the profits of capital, business groups, nowhere is cross-checked with the needs of the people, in this case the right to free, safe, modern transport, but that no urban government, any political force that bows and promotes the armoring of competitiveness, the profitability of monopolistic groups, cannot ensure that public works are carried out for the benefit of people's prosperity. There is no question about this, but there is a full match between all of you, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - Change Movement and other urban parties. In fact, in order to convince the people, the government propaganda, as happened and happened with all the previous contracts from all the previous governments, is invested with the same claim that the Greek public, namely the people, pay for these projects huge amounts for the purpose of modern infrastructure, regional development, strengthening the economy and much more. However, the result of so many years is that the working people see that their life has not improved. Poverty, tolerance and unemployment have grown, living conditions have deteriorated and it has proved that even his life is essentially unprotected against pandemic and natural phenomena, earthquakes, floods, fires and others, with government and regional and municipal authorities. So, for example, in Thessaly after so many projects that have been implemented for decades, with two motorways - PATHE, E65 - crossing it, unemployment is officially at 18%, while young people are at 30%. Partial and temporary work is breaking. Wages and pensions have been drastically reduced. Labour and insurance rights have been beaten and continue to be beaten ruthlessly. Thousands of farmers have been sieved and many more are suffocating, as are professionals, with the rural population in employment falling over the last twenty years by 9%, while agricultural production has declined at the same time. Many industries have been closed or transferred with subsidies abroad, while a number of social needs have become an extremely expensive commodity that many can no longer meet. However, at the same time that the people pay the roads to build and carved for their use with tolls, works related to anti-military protection in the place of Thessaly, which each one of them floods, as a few months ago in Carditsa in September with 'January', are not considered eligible, since they will not bring profits to the groups. Or like, for example, the necessary anti-Semitism works in the region - and not just in Thessaly - which the recent catastrophic Martian earthquake in March dramatically highlighted the enormous responsibilities of all the governments that leave the people of our region - and not just Thessaly - exposed to enormous risks. Instead of prioritising, you should have already drawn up a timely scientific plan for projects and infrastructures by ensuring funds and personnel for the flooding, anti-nuclear, earthquake protection of Thessaly, for works of land improvement, irrigation, rural roadworks or for protection against pollution, the government and the regions throughout the country, based on the European Union's directives and the needs of big capital, what are you doing? Promote major road projects in the context of the development of infrastructure, with assistance to the railway, the port of Volos via the PPP or privatisations, i.e. transport relating to the activities of the great capital that Thessaly and our country wants, in general, a transit centre for the movement of its products or other countries to and from Europe, Asia, Africa, and not for the safe and free movement of the people who pay expensive tolls, tickets, fuels and taxes. At the same time, however, with the Latvian concessions, like the E65, you have provided wealthy and insurance valves to the construction business groups, ensuring that no matter what happens, their profits will not be affected. Thus, for example, the risk of low performance by the operation of the projects is dealt with by the project’s planned subsidy from the public sector, while at the same time the risk of low return from the holding is also reduced by the provision of a contract for the prohibition of the public construction and operation of competitive projects, the operation of which may affect the traffic of the motorways. And we are talking about those projects and roads that the public can upgrade, modernise and improve. In fact, the concessionaire has the right to intervene and even ask for fees. Yes or no? We asked that in committee too. Is this on the basis of the contract or not? But you see, at the same time as giving all the privileges and creating all the preconditions by giving everything to the major construction groups, to the farmer of Thessaly - and not only - that his production is being destroyed does not compensate him for 100% of ELGA or the state for the income he loses. Accordingly, their business groups are guaranteed by all sides and decades in depth. So, on the basis of the above, as we have tabled to the committee, we ask those who hear us, to the people, a question: Public works and services, respectively, must be a commodity or, on the contrary, a social asset as supported by the JRC? Can anyone claim that in the context of this system, it can be ensured that the people are cheap, quick, qualitative and modernly producing public works covering all the needs of society, environmental protection and the safety of residents and workers? In the current socio-economic framework, capitalism, priority should be given to infrastructure projects, such as those mentioned earlier: anti-nuclear and anti-military protection, anti-Semitism, etc.Huh? Clearly it can't be. And it cannot be because the fulfilment of all the people's needs also requires the discharge of the system of production of public works by the iron laws of capitalist profit. The Communist Party of Greece opposes the capitalist system and the development promoted by the European Union, the current government, like all previous governments, but also other urban parties, because it has proven itself to serve the interests of great capital and prevents the modern needs of society at a time when it is produced by the workers of enormous wealth, which are huge productive, scientific and technological potential, but we have great unemployment, underemployment, poverty, commercialisation of all our needs, but also increasing the imperialist competitions and wars. And all this to ensure huge profits from a low social minority. Through the organized people's movement, we demand a series of direct requests for a line of confrontation with the policy of competitiveness and the profitability of capital in response to the modern needs of the working people's family on income, employment, labour, social, insurance and democratic rights, the survival of small and medium-sized farmers and self-employed, health, education, sport, culture, environmental protection, the privatisation and commercialisation of social goods and services, water, energy, waste collection and management, etc. With just the initiatives of the JRC and the class movement, our people need to strengthen their struggle to avoid paying for the new crisis of the capitalists, claiming that there should be a substantial relief for workers, people's families, self-employed in the face of both the enormous burdens and the consequences they have to pay for because of the pandemic and the crisis of which it is a catastrophic one. The fact that in front of the people's eyes the opposition of who pays and who gets fruited, who works and who eventually enjoys, the crucial conclusion for the working class is that it can live with prosperity, as long as it is able to get rid of the parasites, capitalists, these and their power, and to develop a radically different path of development, the socialisation of the concentrated means of production and their operation by centrally design and labour control, so that the production of the projects can be concentrated on a single state body that possesses the means of production, will distribute centrally, scientifically planned public funding and the workforce, cover all phases of public projects, undertakes the planning and implementation of projects according to the needs of the people. This is the only hopeful way to satisfy the popular needs and rights of workers, including in the construction industry, who pay dearly for competitiveness and capitalist development. We are voting against the draft law in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u14	We continue with Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, they said Pharaoh had ten wounds. Greece has much more. Since we are talking about public works, however, it is a very great wound and a deep wound, a very great wound. We're talking about a world record of smuggling public money when it comes to public works in Greece. We're talking about a million-dollar showcase. And of course we are talking about a huge burden on the Greek citizens, on the Greek taxpayers. We are talking about cost-effective works, works which each government, whatever it is - which you are usually the three of you, PASOK and once SYRIZA - promises that they will be implemented, very quickly, with dreams, with plans. Years are going on, decades, and we're still waiting to see them complete. What have we seen? Make a little picture, travel a little back: tunnels in the middle of nowhere - we have seen them - the road blind, without beginning, without end, roads and insects that after a while they fill holes and lacquers - we have seen them, these are Greek phenomena and those who have lived abroad have seen huge differences - the projects that have remained semi-finished or works that have never begun, the projects that have been abandoned, the costs of which have not only exceeded the original forecasts, but have also been unbearable. In any case, you remember very well, Minister, that the contracts were constantly changed, extended, postponed, and eventually nothing was planned, from what had been budgeted, was done as much as it should have been. This is the reality of Greek public works. I don't think there's a man in here or someone watching us who has a different view. And it seems that despite what each government described, it was presenting a project or inaugurating a project as a great success. You know, projects usually drag on so many years that, in the meantime, governments change and then you confuse each other with the project: 'No, I took it', 'not I did it', 'I took it up to there', 'yes, but if we weren't, you wouldn't do anything'. You're getting confused. It's amazing what you're doing. What are you doing? Failures, deferrals, extensions, fragmentation of public money, all of this was synonymous with success. So what I'm describing now happens and then every government comes - now you - and it says: Success, because we're finishing it. How you baptize failure, squatting success, that's all you really know. It's a typical case for the E65 motorway. It's a bad story! It's a highway that really looks like Arta's bridge. It's built, rebuilt, but never complete. You know, Minister, we're the Thessalonians with the Serres. We're too familiar with the subway too. I would remind Mr Zurari here - I will take it to the fan and not to the party because he has changed several parties, I do not know where he is - who said that the measure will end when PAOK took the championship, when PAOK was still poor relative, that is to say he had said it 'until the sun came out of the West'. That's what he said. You know, PAOK took the championship, Minister. Not only did he get a championship, he took a cup and a drum. We haven't seen the subway yet. I was the one who climbed Thessaloniki there to see Egnatia, the poor girl, in the works closed, unable to move anything forward. A drama normal. I won't tell about the buses you brought without air condition and without windows. Let's not go there right now, it's not the day. And, you know, it's and it's a pity because Antonio Bandera is in Thessaloniki, Minister. There's a play coming up now, biscuit. Could have a shot inside the subway if we had a subway. Unfortunately, however, we don't have a subway. And the worst - since I referred to the shooting and production - is that we are giving a lot of money to produce this project and that our town, our homeland, will have no projection. Sooner or later, to end up somewhere, because the project is going out in Miami, not Thessaloniki - we were caught with a bunch of guts. But the public works contractors also catch the governments, Minister. And this has been done for many years with E65. After all the governments failed to complete it, they failed to carry out this great work promised to our fellow citizens, they decided to break it into pieces. He tells you, since I can't do it, I'll break it, and I'll slowly start doing something. The N65 was designed to join the Thessaloniki-Athens motorway with the Ennatia Road. Maybe someone doesn't know that, not from you, but from the people watching us. It was therefore negotiated with a concession contract in 2007. Fourteen years have passed and we're still waiting for him. How long can we wait? All governments found and found excuses for any government failures and eventually in 2011 with the economic crisis it was decided to implement the intermediate section of the motorway. It is the piece Xyniada - Trikala, which was delivered for use in 2017, then on SYRIZA, with drum impacts, while the construction of the other two parts, north and south, went far behind. What, then, was the usefulness, functionality of this work? None. The motorway started operating on December 22, 2017, but from the south and north, there was no connection to the motorway. Awesome! A road that is inaccessible, a road completely unexploited. And of course those who were to use the road were in the middle of nowhere, they couldn't use it. Of course a little later the 'expensive toll' function also began! Another painful story. My exact toll! Alas, tolls don't get deferred! The completion of the project takes place. Tolls cannot be deferred, so many drivers can avoid this toll. As for the southern part of Lamia - Xyniada began construction in 2018 and we expect, you say, to be completed in 2022. So now you are bringing us to ratify the Convention on the Construction of the Northern Branch, a contract that you signed last month after having approved the work from the European Union several years and fourteen years later, as I said before, the concession agreement. Now concessionaire is the "Central Greece S.A. Street". In fact, we are talking about the "GEK TERNA" which has undertaken most of the major construction projects in our country. Lucky? Maybe. They can be very competent in the company and take all the works. We'll see. As for the cost of the project, things here are not very clear. You are proud that the project will be funded by the notorious Recovery Fund. We must not forget, however, that the recovery fund's money is not for sure. There are strict adherence to the timetables, which, if they are not respected, will be imposed on the state budget. I say that they will be observed and we hope that they will be kept and that everything will be well. According to the National Recovery Plan, the project costs some 452 million, half a billion. The General Accounting Office of the State says 490 million. I asked you to the committee the other day. We have therefore asked this question about the extra cost. Did we ask you "the extra cost is due to the fact that it is seven and a half miles more in the Grevenes-Enatia section?" because from 30.6 miles to that piece we go to 38 km. You said these 38 million are about archaeology and expropriations. Thirty-eight million archaeology and expropriations! It's raining money! Awesome! Where does this amount actually come from? We wonder how this is going to happen. Are there any studies in this regard? What are the 38 million for archaeological findings? I don't really know. Let's get something straight. We fully agree that we do not discuss it, otherwise we would be unreasonable, let alone that the Greek Solution is a party that supports and serves the logic, to make projects, to improve transport, to make citizens' movements safer, easier, faster. And here we go on some important issues. These are good, but the agreements in question must not have conditions and clauses from which the public must commit excessively, to be effectively trapped, because then there is no positive impact on society and on the citizens, Mr Karamanlis. But what is the positive impact when priorities of government policy and yours are now to increase tolls, increase the rafts of the Greeks who ultimately pay two, three and four times a motorway? The management of toll money is equally important. You get rid of the Greeks, at least the money goes somewhere. The money collected should be used to improve quality, road safety and so on. What is the benefit for citizens when public procurement ensures that contractors and construction companies do not lose a single euro when these companies do not generate toll revenues due to reduced traffic? That's how I'm being an investor. I mean, whatever it is, I get a win-win. And if my shop doesn't have a job, then I'm going to be compensated for by the state. These are the clauses you sign. However, the Greek taxpayers and traffic charges, as we have said before, also pay very expensive fuels. And while we are talking about contracts that should normally serve the public interest, the clauses for compensation payments by the State are dominated by us for insurance payments to the concessionaire, for recovery from the public of the ‘results of public liability events’, namely contractual provisions and obligations of the public for the payment of extra sums of money to large companies in particular interests. We have seen it recently at the 'FRAPORT'. We gave more than they wanted or gave more than they had lost. We did that, so you did. I mean, the state, Greece, us, you government. And point something else. You mentioned to the committee - to see that we are listening very carefully - Mr Karamanlis, that, among other things, you have unlocked the construction of this project in the European Commission with the argument of defoliation, right? It was a pretext and you said in Europe 'to unblock it, because in Greece we have liberation and the region must come to life'. So you claimed that you would practically support Western Macedonia in the critical period of liberation. But the abolition, Mr Karamanlis, of the exploitation of lignite deposits in the country is not a natural phenomenon that hit Greece. The removal of natural lignite deposits in the country is a political choice, government, it is your choice. You're driving that area to the turbulence. You remove lignite sharply, arbitraryly, at the same time as Germany - we have said it a hundred times - in 2035 and see, at the same time as lignite factories are being built around us, small Greece, we are rushing to global pollution, to abolish lignite. But deserting many areas of our country like western Macedonia there and losing hundreds of thousands of jobs, increasing unemployment abruptly - twenty thousand jobs will be lost there - is your choice and that is not, you know, a sustainable development. It is a cause of turbulence and it is a cause of desertification in this region. It is a negative incentive to leave the region even more young people. And because we are talking about billions of euros, about expensive infrastructure projects, how do you explain that the motorway was closed with bad weather 'Janus'? A lot of money was invested in this project and closed with the 'January'. How do you explain that new, modern infrastructure did not last and closed the road? Even the use of the upright rail tunnel was interrupted. For all these important things, our party has asked for explanations from the government and we have tabled too many questions. We're on hold. So the emblematic works, as each government presents, each Minister and you now, the E-65 emblematic project, you know, are not judged by the designations - because we have said it emblematic. No, they are judged in practice, they are judged in its application, where the other one goes to drive, for example, or a bad weather. That's where he'll tell us if it's emblematic or if it's Greek. That's the big difference. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will not speak again. I need one or two more minutes. Do I really need to remind you of the alalum created by the national roads that were closed in the first snow, with drivers being taken down? The police closed down the highway because the drivers had no anti-slip chains, as they had to, so it was no longer the company's responsibility to shut down the highway. Even though a regulation - see now - banning the closure of the operation with fines for the company, everything is overthrown if the state imposes the closure of the roads. So you imposed it, Chrysochoidis, so the company got away with it. So, free clauses we signed, so fine. So people can figure out what's going on a little bit. In other words, if the highway were to close, the company would pay off, but because Mr Chrysochidis woke up on that day and closed it for an hour, the company escaped the fine. These are just things to get down. So the roads are closed and the companies do not pay fines, but also ask for compensation from the State. They took the ox where they owed us. It's all right, it's all set. A total of 40 million was granted to motorway companies for the first lockdown for the non-recovery of tolls. It's awesome! I mean, if you don't get a client in my shop, the public will pay me back. That's a good job, guys! Let's do it, too. And because we are talking about public works, small and large, and I am ending, we are still waiting, as I said at the beginning, to see when this rhyme of Thessaloniki will work. We are still waiting for public transport to be strengthened with new, modern and secure buses and not steadfasts that you went and took without air conditioners and no bus windows. Is it possible to do such things? You are a young man, with open horizons and another political thought. What are these things? Our country has paid a very heavy price to asphalt. We have mourned too many human lives. It's a third cause of death, the traffic in Greece. The world is also dying of traffic, not just from the coroner. It's got a dead-and-run traffic. It's a third cause of death in our country. That is why we should prioritise such contracts to serve the public interest, to serve the citizens rather than the few, our own and the specific interests. In order to do this, it needs a real will on the part of the state to house the budgets, to monitor the implementation of public projects - step by step at every stage. Not personally, but you as government have no confidence in us. That is why we are not voting in favour of the bill today precisely because we do not trust you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u16	We continue with Mr. Georgios Logiadis from Mera25. Immediately after that, Mr Bukouros Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the current draft law of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure ratifys the agreement from 24-6-2021 between the Greek State and the concessionaire of the contractor "GEC TERNA" which for the fourth time amends the initial contract of concession of the project from 31-5/2007 to study, construction, financing, maintenance and operation of the mainland motorway, E-65. The original contract was ratified by Law 3597/2007 on Souflia and then three amendments were made by Law 4219/2013 on Samaras, Law 4354/2015 and Law 4586/2018 on Tsipras. The project presented scandalous delays from the start of the work and until they were interrupted due to unrealistic contractual provisions, expropriations, non-completion of archaeological research, etc. Consequently, the contractor will claim and achieve compensation of millions of euros against the Greek public. This is the joy of the public contractor concerned, i.e. that changes should be made to the initial study after the project took place. Having taken the project, giving huge and illegal discounts to the initial budget of the project, based on the up-to-date initial studies, costing multiples of the original estimated amount for the project due to these changes. In addition to these following the 2009 crisis, the data led to the inability to further finance the project on the basis of existing loan contracts and thus to the closure of construction work in 2011. In this context, the public and the contractor proceeded with the amendment agreement. In the 2013 contract, the State now undertakes the full financing of the project and further undertakes to grant its share of the revenues of the Ionian Road to the contractor of the central motorway of Greece, who is the same as the contractor of the Ionian Road and to cover the costs of the deferred project. The original contract in 2007 provided for the total public participation in the financing of the project with EUR 518 million. Today this amount is about EUR 1371 million. As regards the environmental aspect, the ecological aspect notes that the initial engraving of the deferred Section B had raised a number of reactions at that time due to the fact that it was wrong to predict crossing the motorway through the brown bear protection zone in Valia Calda. For this reason, initial engraving has changed from east to east with a clear reduction in the environmental impact of the project, but also with an escalation in its construction costs. This is precisely the happiness of the contractor that we described earlier and at the same time the misfortune of the Greek State with the fragmentation of huge sums and the time of the project. Acknowledging the positive role that the project will play in linking Eastern Greece and western Greece and the local communities are standing against the draft law, denouncing both the specific and the previous legislative arrangements that have taken place over the years since 2007 and so far an impressive deterioration in the position of the public as a contracting party for the benefit of the national contractor. Further, the Recovery Fund will be a gold mine for the oligarchy which will disembowel it. And here we have just one such case with the EUR 490 million for the cost of this project. So we see that the E-65 has become a modern bridge of Arta with the fragmentation of resources and time. The Chinese in twenty - nine hours built a ten - storey building. It is common secret over time that public works in Greece are like a bottomless barrel and are based on large development studies with initial MAMs. So don't wonder when over time the citizen has no confidence in the state, and for example, he is not going to be vaccinated today. You will allow me, Minister, to address a number of other issues quickly. First, you recently announced the construction of the 4 metro line in Athens. That's right, but you also told us that you hadn't predicted, studied parking spaces, parking at these metro stations. It will not have the success of the work it could have done if there are no parking areas in the stations. Therefore, it is greatly reduced by any benefit to the environment and to the quality of life of people. Secondly, as a MP from Heraklion Crete, I would like to stress the need for the new North Axis of Crete, the BOAK, announced by the Prime Minister, to run all over Crete from Kastelli Kissamos to Chania to Paleokastro in Sitia. Crete is one and one. On 26-6-2021 I filed a letter - a report mentioning the exception of a large part of Lassithi Law from this design, creating conditions of marginalisation and isolation in a part of Crete where the development deficit is already registered and confirmed. Further for BOAK, for the Naples-Hersonissos section, the Crete Regional Council, last week, calls for the necessary, necessary and appropriate anti-military protection projects to be studied so that the catastrophic floods that we had last November are not repeated. The Region of Crete reported that everything is done for us without us. From the minutes of the Regional Council of Crete, last week, 7 July, I read that "for the water management of water, we did not have the hydraulic study of the road section and environmental impact study". The Regional Council of Crete was therefore invited to deliver an opinion on the environmental impact study without having the environmental impact study. I also read that for the road section in mind, non-integrated ray management is a major problem, so that the recent major flood disasters in these areas are not repeated in November 2020. What studies you sent them are worthy of wonder. This is why after each project has been auctioned its cost to multiples. It is also necessary to consider the link from the Department of Hersonissos - Neapoli, with the port of Malion, which has not been provided for in this initial study, and the part of the old national road in the Municipality of Hersonissos, in the area of Kokkini Hani, which is a busy tourist area, must be restored immediately, because it has been extremely dangerous for years and is a great defamation for tourism. Finally, compensation should be given to property owners who have been exonerated for works by the BOAK, such as the nodes in Agia Pelagia Heraklion Crete and the people have not yet been paid. MERA 25 stresses that the BOAK must not have tolls and also highlight the total lack of means of fixed track, train or tram, for the airport of Kastelion from Heraklion and generally throughout Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos Kyriakos, has now asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start by expressing my surprise because I learned half an hour ago that the Prime Minister will be here shortly. It reminds me of some people who are waiting for the rest of us to be gone and come in secret. I don't know why. As was also absent when we talked about the medium term, which is a very important matter for our country because it was referring to the next three, four, five years. It is therefore lacking in the major issues. I am not talking about shreds, I am not saying that it is fugitive or fugitive, I am not concerned about that. But I'm talking about self-evident. You cannot be here as Prime Minister or his MPs slowly gather because they have learned that the Prime Minister of the country is coming to speak and deceive Parliament and democracy with their choices many times. Let us go to the N65, a road - a ferry of Arta since 2007 - because, Minister, we all come from Macedonia - a road that could be an outward street and not an introvert, a road, Minister, which if it really had vertical roads to Eastern Europe for about fifteen years - I am referring to Bulgaria, Romania - with connections, could be the gate of the Balkans, the real gate from many prefectures of the country. Neither the Prefecture Pellas has a real way out nor Florina has a real way out. Even in Serres County, recently, who had the obvious idea of putting tolls of fifty meters after customs, I didn't get it. The Minister's gone, I imagine he'll answer us soon. As far as this company is concerned, I'm not going to go into scandalology, I'm not one of those, I'm not one of those, I'm going to buckles, or to the friendships and services of people, who's next to a party or a government. However, I must say that this particular consortium, this company, at least, has taken the portion of the lion from the government symptomaticly - I hope it is not a symptom of suffocation, transaction and strife. Some EUR 3 billion, as I understand it, is the roads, what is being prepared, infrastructure and so on. This company also launches other kinds of projects. As a businessman, I have nothing with the company. The businessman is doing his job. The government must weigh on whether it is right and proper, and whether it is permanently serving certain people - it is in the interests of diversity, diversity and, above all, - I shall say it directly - transparency. Because it smells, the story smells. The same company will also get massive projects of 1,7 billion in renewable energy sources. We're the only country in the world that a man, a business can have fifteen different businesses with different objects. Don't let anything stand, son. Five, six, ten oligars in Greece, from the pin to the road, from the spacecraft - I say that now it's broadly - up to the last straw they want it, not to have the next ones or the previous ones, not to have anyone else. It's his logic that someone else dies so I can live. Wrong logic. It took 40 million of what I learned because of locking, of course, it receives firm compensation because we did not put a toll on Varube, Dionysus, New Road, of EUR 11 million. You know, in a very low way, you tell me that businessman who invests, when work goes wrong, has to be compensated well from the state. With the same reasoning in my business, I have to compensate for the mess and make a profit. It is a global prototype in a government that is against stateism or rather stateism better and it is in favour of the liberal perception that it is only for the rights of workers to be liberalised, only for the oppression of small businesses, but for large businesses and elite state aid is made simpler. That's what we disagree with. We are in favour of helping the small and medium-sized enterprises, the Greek worker, the Greek citizen, who is hungry. Stop sharing money to the rich, don't need it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] On the other hand, we are the most intelligent, resourceful people. But I don't know who invented this great idea, having on every street and toll. I mean, he's got to be a busy Ulysses. Odysseus had an engine to put a toll on. The only country that has so many tolls, we're paying so much money, it's us. Thirteen European countries have free use of motorways. In Germany - I have said it fifteen times - it is a different regime: depending on the milestones you are doing - and I say it so to understand it - you should also pay something. I understand that. But these golden tolls are not sown by the Greek people. Because even the roads we use do not have paradoxes, which are the contractor's contractual obligation to create corridors. I don't want to go anything from the big highway, I want to say from the little, next door. That doesn't exist either. It is a pan-European our first. Minister, may I ask you something? Only are we smart, only Greek ministers are smart and put tolls, are only Greek Prime Ministers inventing tolls to serve their friends and elite? What do we say? Tolls belong to the people. The Greek won't pay money to any big-worker to go through the street and go to his work as well. These are incredible things. And you know, I thought the New Democracy, at least in finance, would be better. Unfortunately, you don't even go through the base with the multiple mistakes. The Commission has forced you to amend your program for the Recovery Fund. But you're such good guys with the media, because you're giving so many millions of euros, they're not going to say anything. What has the European Union done? He asked you to change your schedule, set you a block in the government's plan. Because as I understand it - we understood it, the rest of the parties did not understand it, I do not know why - it attempted through the Recovery Fund to strengthen your own elites, their own few and chosen ones. And did you think that Europe will easily swallow this peculiar, peculiar, peculiar, elite, elite canals? Uh, she didn't swallow it. They therefore requested government guarantees to ensure that loans were granted with sound economic criteria. In other words, they will not be given to your chosen ones. For us the pandemic was a golden opportunity for the country. In fact, a golden opportunity to redesign our primary sector. To create the conditions because the Trailer Recovery Fund was coming and to get money to invest in the primary sector. And I am referring to the fourth and fifth degrees of rural development, not primary and secondary. So the COVID pandemic - and I am reading to you what the UN says - will have consequences for global food security. We have an increase in the number of people who have been hunger-treated and the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation warns! That's what we told you from the start here. The only thing he was saying was the Greek Solution because everyone else was saying it. We told you this was an opportunity to design the primary sector. It is an opportunity to make a ten-year plan so that we can have sufficient or self-sufficiency as much as we can in goods. It was a golden opportunity and you murdered her. You lost her to put wind turbines, make roads and cement, which are necessary, but they are of secondary importance to the economy and to what comes from now on. Members of the New Democracy, two months ago, the Prime Minister himself - I imagine he will be coming in a little while - said 'BILD', 'we will have a regular summer with twice as many tourists'. The result? Zakynthos, Kefalonia minus 60%, Cyclades minus 50%, Crete minus 40%, Mykonos minus 40%. Well, there too, the applause, from the ridiculousness of a state that has not understood that in the diamonds of tourism - Santorini, Mykonos, Corfu, Halkidiki - take care of the infrastructure. Is that a state? You've made a rotten state. Tourist industry without infrastructure and sewer system? Where have you seen this? One - then, the countries of the European Union put us red and the Prime Minister told us other things. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, and governor of good sometimes sails. It's an ancient Greek expression. And he's a great man, he's unlucky. But you, and you sail and get miserable, unfortunately with your choices. Uh, until when will the Greek people tolerate these choices? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] On my last trip to Crete I was saddened, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know how many of you are from Crete. I went to Heraklion airport. Heraklion State Airport not having air condition, with forty degrees of temperature and sweating? I asked the airport manager and he told me that this had been the case for ten days. Really? Not having air condition in the summer and talking to me about infrastructure and tourism? Is that possible? For self-evident? I'm not telling you about the sewer I told you about before, but about the air condition! We were with my good colleague Mr Mylonakis and the rest of us and the sweat was running. The tourists yelled at us, yelled at the Greeks of Heraklion. But I'll tell you why you're doing it. You do, unfortunately, to despise the state airport and when the private one is ready - to say 'we are all relieved'. Hey, shit! Irrespectively Savages! That's not reasonable, unfortunately. I will also say it directly and it will be heard rawly, there was no health paper in the toilets to wipe people out. Tourists have come to me, Germans, and I've been denounced. Where are you going with tourism, huh? I'm just telling you things. How can you still talk about tourist industry, traveling with planes from Thessaloniki, from Crete, do you not see that buses transporting the world have no air condition? Where are you going? Where are we finally going? Leave the government, where are we all going together? Bus, with fifty degrees of temperature inside, have no air condition. Don't you see that? Aren't you being taken by bus to the airport? Are we all right? I'm telling you the simple things. Mr Karamanlis cannot raise the phone and say to the "FRAPORT" or "Eleftherios Venizelos", "hey children, take five even buses and get air conditioned in, because people will shut up like mice". I'm telling you to self-evidently. What kind of tourism are you talking about? Seaweeds for silk ribbons for sale. That's the accident. "OLYMPIAKI" is in a hurry, the state learned the story - whichever state - and sells it. OSE shuts down, the state learns it, sells it. They shut up the airports, the state found out, he sells them. PPC shuts down, the state learns it, sells it. ELVO shuts down, the state learns it, sells it. H.D., ELPE, H.S.S., we sell these too. Hey, where's good administration? Where is the plan for some things, which are also monopolistic, and which give superprofit, such as water, electricity? Water will not be a product of multiple conflicts in the years to come. You're not entitled to sell the water. Do you understand? You don't sell the water, understand it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] External debt, 341 billion in 205% of GDP. A deficit of 16.1 billion, or 9% of GDP. You're telling me more than double the loan than expected, and you're telling me about successes? Provision for an indication of GDP by 6% in Greece and 3% in Cyprus, says the websites of New Democracy and the well-known media, which you control anyway and have fainted us. Honestly, how do you, the people of New Democracy, enjoy seeing the other parties faint - not all - and not all - and not call them? Tell me how you're happy? What kind of democratic sensitivity there is MPs and representatives of the Greek people, when they see the other parties never being called for for two years in a peculiar style - I will say this directly - fascist, authoritarian pity of the Greek Solution and the rest of the parties. Tell me how you tolerate it and how do you democrats accept it? And don't tell me you don't control the channels? Let it go! Heavy the story of the country's interlocutory. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We had a recession for two years, 11%. We have lost a huge GDP, but we will also have growth. In other words, I had 10 euros in my pocket, I lost 11, I was borrowed, and I will have a half-euro growth after that. No numbers. We asked PPC President in committee if he would make pre-market contracts - the futures we are saying - for oil, to ensure lower prices. The simplest of all we ever told the president of PPC. The man, the president of PPC, had no idea! Where are your great technocrats when PPC President doesn't know how the system works? Isn't that right, Mr. Villardo? The President of PPC did not know, ladies and gentlemen! Is that the expert? I don't know. And his answer you know what it was? He'll laugh every bitter man. He doesn't want to play the Greek people's money on the stock market. Out of place. Out of time. But you're telling him, that's what he says. The next day, Mr. Hatzidakis says that subsidiary players will be played on the stock exchange by someone else who has the impunity. Take conclusions on a government, which goes from here and there, because it has no plan. And we don't want to criticize anyone. We try to show you the right way every time. A hundred and fifty are confronted with bankruptcy. They're not my words, Chamber of Commerce. This will start after the end of the 41 billion-dollar support meter because of the pandemic. This is going to end. And that's a loan. With empty funds and debts, it really seems the Prime Minister realized that something is wrong. He's been told by his advisors, and that's why opposition is escalating. I have heard Mr Tsipras and I am saddened by what he has to say, with insults and mud, to some extent, in things that have to do with the moral status of the New Democracy. We have to be very careful. All to written votes? No, it's the wrong tactic. Only with arguments and suggestions can you compare. And it must be careful that the Qualified Opposition when it comes to ethical issues and - I will say it directly - is generalized by the specialist. It's a principle of fascism. And that applies to us and you. The Prime Minister first did so by dividing the Greeks into sprayed and unscrupulous, and now Mr. Tsipras does so, which seems to smell elections and he wants to escalate. No, we won't fall into the gutter of slander, of water, of mud as Greek Solution. We will go ahead with arguments and suggestions. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And let that all stop. I understand that many New Democracy Members have not heard what Mr Tsipras said. Look it up to you to understand. However, the truth is that Memorandums are being prepared. I ask the good colleagues from New Democracy: what reform do you talk about when from 2014 to 2020 civil servants went from six hundred thousand to seven hundred? While in the medium term, the New Democracy itself, which was absent by the Prime Minister and was not here, speaks of thirty-five thousand more recruitments until 2024-2025. But hires are made to put your own children in order to have voters. But you are provoking the already increased debt and overcoming the next generation, the next Greeks coming. I will say it, for some to understand: they bring apples from Italy, ready, packed with 0.60 and from Poland. Skopje put thousands of acres of wine. Yeah, as you hear. Because the cherries began to thrive in the Pella Prefecture, where I come from, with new varieties. The Skopjes took it, and with special programmes from the European Union, they put thousands of acres of cherries. And there's no reaction, a resistance, something to do. Maize price on July 10, 2021: 0,30 pounds. And all of this Bulgarian origin, because Greece doesn't have corn. We don't produce corn and we don't have corn storage. I say all this because for us - I will say it directly - the primary sector, the agricultural, livestock and fisheries economy is the compass which will show real growth in our country for the next ten years. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The ladder of success must be consistently supported before you climb it. Because if you try to climb the ladder of success without stabilizing it, you'll fall, and the people will fall, who supported hope on a guy who doesn't know what ladder means, work, work, success. In conclusion, I would also like to say a few things about national issues. We are very happy that the New Democracy constantly copys what we say to it, and distorts many times. A year ago, I told Mr. Dendia to find India, which is an enemy of Pakistan. A friend of Turkey is Pakistan. Yesterday, he announced it. We also welcome him for this choice, as we will welcome every positive one. However, we will be disapproved of statements Nots, that the New Democracy will respect the Ambassadors' agreement, regardless of whether it is treacherous. We deplore it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I welcome and welcome the Greek Prime Minister who has listened to the Greek Solution and has tried to finally make a National Security Council. Go for him! This is a choice, which we have been pushing for, a choice that we were shouting about, and we were screaming that it must be implemented. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But I wonder: Will the ELIAMEP be in front again? Mr. Dokos again? Is that how we're going to make a National Security Council? Let's call Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsouba, Mr. Varoufakis, us. The National Security Council is not a ELIAMEP Board. So here we deplore and reject Mr Doku's choice to design the National Security Council. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We again welcome the New Democracy's choice of drones. Well done, to Mr. Panayotopoulos. Even if he heard us late. A year and a half I've given him plans. And in Kilkis there's a company in Crete as well. To make PPPs, organize properly, because what's coming is much harder than we imagine. Well done, to Mr. Panayotopoulos. But we reject the choice of not to look at these drones having rocket systems up. We don't want any thoughts. We don't just want to see what the enemy does. We want to gain power, power of fire, to prevent any enemy. That's what the Greek Solution wants, and that's what we're going to impose. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, I wonder about SYRIZA and the Change Movement. Two of his MPs went on a course in Thrace. It's their right to do whatever they want. On this course they shouted: “We are Turks. We are Turks". And that is their right to feel Turks. It is not the right of any party of the Greek Parliament to have, however, within the people, their choices, but above all their actions, the country is at risk of mutilation in Thrace. They both had to be deleted from the first moment. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm sure if it was another party, he would. What are they afraid of and do not? But I am glad that the Muslim brothers are about a hundred and twenty thousand. Four hundred, five hundred cowards. The remaining nineteen thousand five hundred Muslim brothers did not even go, neither did they even care, nor even reasoned them. And that gives me great pleasure. I am convinced that with the good policy to be taken seriously by the Greek Parliament, the Muslim brothers Greek citizens are above all Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Closed up, I'd like the Prime Minister to be here, but he's not. Yesterday, the Prime Minister's statement personally shocked me. 'I will give freedom to those who deserve it'. The freedom, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, is not the right to a few, elite, or fewer or people who listen to us. The freedom, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, was conquered by blood of innocent and not only Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do not threaten with deprivation of freedom. The action brings a reaction. To be persuasive, you must be believers, gentlemen of the New Democracy. To be trustworthy, you must be reliable, gentlemen of the New Democracy. And you as a government are neither believed nor trustworthy. How many mistakes are you still going to make in the management of the pandemic? We were telling you about primary care and medication to understand that you're making mistakes. Is it possible, even now, for the Prime Minister to talk about shutting down hospitals? It's a mistake, a long time, off-site statement. We fought as a country to create a democracy. When you do not have the consent of the Greek people, the whole of the people, and the acceptance, then you are attempting by violence, contagiousness or the invasion to be imposed. Then you've run away from the boundaries of democracy. The government's choice has passed to the limits of authoritarianism. The mandatory vaccine is the worst thing for democracy. That is why the Greek Solution is fighting for freedom, democracy and non-compulsoryity. Understood. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Anyone who wants to do it will. I have not forced anyone - ask my party, my MPs and my party members to do or not to do the vaccine. That's what we say. We didn't stop anyone from doing it. We barely told anyone to do it. Understand it, only by persuading her, only by persuading the Greeks that you are right - if we are wrong - you will be able to give a solution. Not with violence. Not with the anti-democratic option. No, with authoritarianism. No, with the horror. You're creating another kind of reflective. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] In conclusion, I should like to say that I regret that the Church of Greece, the Archbishop, do not feel the need for priests to think and in the Holy Spirit to speak for comfort - as I say - of support and hope in the flock and in the Orthodox. Does the Shepherd Hierarchy not find that the crew should give answers about specific things? We as a Greek Solution say that the clergy must speak, the hierarchs must speak, but not become a hen of any government. The other is one, the other is the other. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, the world wants dignity. The Greek people want respect, they want goods and food. He doesn't want money. He wants a good standard of living. Respect for the Greek Solution to Man is the highest good of our own political perception. All the movements, all the reactions, all the revolutions, and not because the state did not respect the citizen, did not respect the citizen, because the state did not respect them, but the state did say to them by election and others did after-elections. For us, respect for the Greek is the compass, which will lead to the real change of place. We need four years. We'll change Greece. We will move forward because it deserves Greek and Greek a better Greece. Greece first, then, and the Greeks first. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u20	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Boukokos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom really wants to be enjoyable and bold, it does not blossom either with smallness or with inferior initiatives or with protagonisms of party interest in the face of major issues that should unite the entire Greek people. We have heard many references, I understand the difficulties of the opposition to speak about the substance of today's bill, which is coming to complete a very large development project, which was essentially referred to the Greek bells. And the current government comes, with the Prime Minister's own involvement, with the drunken work of eighteen months of the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, to unlock it, to secure the funding and to launch the implementation of this project, which completes the country's main road networks. We have heard about the Thessaloniki metro, the Athens metro, the national issues, but what debate do we have on national issues, ladies and gentlemen? Has the attitude and capacity of this government not been demonstrated in national matters? Didn't it turn out from dealing with the hybrid attack on Evros? Didn't we have proof of the country's reaction to the challenges of the Eastern Mediterranean? Isn't Erdogan, who from Greek diplomacy isolated and forced to withdraw? Is it not the government that, for the first time, after more than ten years, implements a huge multi-billion euro arms programme, increasing the country's defence power, increasing the deterrent capacity of the country's Armed Forces? Isn't the government, which faces the manipulation of the immigration-refugee problem by Turkey, reducing the streams by 95%? Do you want to speak easily with words and majestics or on the basis of the results achieved by the previous government, compared to the results achieved by the current government in all areas? To come to the public works, which we are discussing today, public works belong to the Greek people, whether they are made from national resources or from European resources. This has been said by both the Prime Minister and Mr Karamanlis, the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure. But the difference lies in the fact that who reliably and efficiently goes ahead with the implementation of these projects and who leads them to inappropriateness and uncertainty, thus reducing their added value for the economy, development and society itself. So what happened? What has the current government entered into large public works? About four billion euros in two years. What was the previous government compromised in public works? Just 500 million. We are implementing a programme, our election programme approved by the Greek people of EUR 13 billion, things that we are committed to and which we aspire will have been met by the end of the four-year period as a whole. So is there any comparison? Is there any comparison for the effectiveness and credibility of the current government with the previous one? And what's E65? Is this a trivial road? First of all, it belongs to the group of major road projects, which was selected for the first time in 2007 for the innovative concession system for our country. A method which was used immediately after the second major war, both in Europe and in Asia and, above all, Japan, and which resulted in projects being carried out technically well within the timescales, without escalating construction costs. These are all three requests to benefit the work for society. So what happened in the past few years? Since the concession system was selected in 2007, the crisis came to another New Democracy government to start unlocking these works again, we spent four and a half years in Patras - Tower, and the E65 and the northern road of Crete. I am referring to these projects because they are the three remaining projects to complete the country's major road projects. And the current government is coming to unblock all three within two years, with the involvement of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, in just two years' time, and we have to face the great challenge towards our national interests and the global challenge of pandemic, in a completely unstable environment. This means that the government's reform work has not given back one minute with the pandemic, but also with the major infrastructure projects have been promoted and the funding of the EUR 442 million for the E65 is now being provided, which will provide new development opportunities for western Macedonia in order to meet the challenges of transition from the lignite era to the era of ligninisation. Because Greece is an environment. I have heard some objections because Greece is obliged to meet the objectives set by Green Deal and to be the first to defend the environment. Because it is the Greek environment that makes us special, ladies and gentlemen. This work, therefore, first of all takes away from isolation from western Macedonia and gives new development opportunities. But it takes off solitary and western Thessaly, Trikala and Karditsa. I have been listening for decades, as a result of Volos, for the development of Volos - Larissa, which is unfair and depriving Western Thessaly, Trikala and Karditsa of development opportunities. So now this motorway passes through the heart of the Carditsa and Trikalon Prefectures and gives growth opportunities in this part of Thessaly, joins the north with the south, is within the trans-European combined transport networks, because in addition to the road connection, it brings the ports of Piraeus, Igoumenitsa and Volos closer together. We are therefore talking about a great development project which, as I said before, is entering the tracks of implementation, with the intervention of the Prime Minister himself and with the uneasy effort of the Minister for Transport. But, Minister, we must also look at this in conjunction with another project, which also with the efforts of the government after seven years is unblocking and is the project of the Volos-Larisa electromagnetic power, which brings the region of Magnesia back, the main rail network and the port of Volos to the European rail network. As soon as the decision was taken yesterday by the SYPTOS, the last loose end is over, you have auctioned the project of electricity mobilisation of EUR 68 million, which the previous government managed to do with the modification of a study and to inherit us huge loose ends. Therefore, and in this project too, the railway project that we need to see in conjunction with PATHE, with the ports I mentioned, with the E65, the difference in the effectiveness of our predecessors in relation to the effectiveness of the current government has no comparison. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that now that we have come to the clearing and after dealing with the pandemic, all the work that has been covered by the needs of addressing the pandemic and our national issues will be seen. Because reforms have not stopped, the preparation and preparation of public works and public infrastructures have been completed, and the next two years of the governance of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and of the New Democracy will bring to an end the results and growth rates which we all want, so that at last our country, Greece, can conquer its position between the European countries and among the peoples of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too, Mr. Bukkoro. The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is now being called to Stepma for his own speech on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, such days in 1881 Thessaly celebrated its entrance to the young and still small Greek state. Today, forty years after the same region has known another kind of integration into the national body, peaceful, creative and developmental. Because by ratifying the Convention on the study, construction and operation of the northern part of the motorway of central Greece known to all of us as E65, this great region is now part of modern national road planning. And when this project is completed, it will connect the two most important arteries of the country, the Patras axis - Thessaloniki and the Ennatia Road. In other words, it is an option that is dynamically uniting the country. In fact, the ratification of this important project also coincides with another very important event, which also means much for the future of Greece, the formal approval of the National Recovery Plan "Greece 2.0" by ECOFIN. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This development comes not only to dismantle the lame arguments made by some who allegedly put forward the project's weaknesses, but above all to testify that it fully responds to the country's development needs, because the E65 also belongs to the actions of the "Greece 2.0" programme and as it bridges the national regions, so that it bridges the national present and the national future by breaking up isolation and defining new horizons. Parliament's vote today marks the end of a fourteen-year pending vote, to which the rapporteur and the speakers, who have also spoken, referred. Because I want to remind the House that E65 was one of the five motorways that were auctioned in 2007 by the New Democracy Government at that time. But precursor work tripped into the economic crisis and stopped in 2011. To start again two years after the renegotiation was chosen to proceed with the most mature section in terms of expropriation, which connects Xenia to the Trikala. It is what was delivered on Christmas 2017, while at the beginning of 2019 it followed the southern part, which unites Lamia with Xyniada and Trikala there. It was this thirty - three - mile - long construction that I had the pleasure of visiting with the Minister and the Secretary-General a few months ago. I follow closely the course of the work. It has already been completed, if I am not mistaken, almost 75% and will soon be delivered into circulation and the first fourteen kilometres. However, it remained the most difficult and complex northern sector. One branch that had and has special geomorphological and technical requirements and has a length of seventy miles. But his greatest problem, what we inherited as government, was the absolute gap in funding in this work too. But the work we all recognised was crucial. And so on December 20, 2019, I pledged that despite the major obstacles we inherited, this project would proceed at all costs, which is confirmed today, confirming our motto "we said, we did it"! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, by personally intervening with the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission, together with the officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have been able to get the green light for funding last January at last. And in less than six months, we have completed the conditions for granting, drawing up and signing the contract, which we are currently dominating in the House. So a work that has been going on for 15 years now is now unleashed into one tenth of this time, disgusting once again those who had been inclined to describe this development as almost impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, the northern end of the motorway of central Greece now has the two necessary elements for its immediate start. On the one hand, almost 450 million with which the Recovery Fund is financed and, on the other, full planning for the project to be ready in three years. We're talking about seventy miles, four tunnels, thirty one bridge, six knots. It will be a technical challenge. But I have no doubt that the contractor will respond and be consistent with the timescales that have been committed. At the same time, however, it is very important to stress that as a source of employment for Thessaly it will create about a thousand jobs in its construction and almost a hundred and fifty jobs in the running phase. However, the benefits of completing the E65 are spread farther. As a national artery it essentially follows the country's vertebral column, serving three regions in Thessaly, western Macedonia and Epirus. And one look on the map shows that this important road will serve faster and safer large areas of the country. For example, the route from Lamia to the Egnatia node in relation to the road network before E85 will be shorter by almost one-and-a-half hour, while the two strips per direction will provide maximum safety by replacing today's unsubstantiated and in many respects dangerous engraving. Very important to stress also that the new artery will also connect Volos with Igoumenitsa, that is the two most important transit ports of central Greece and Epirus. It will thus facilitate transport and trade on the country's horizontal arrow. At the same time, however, it will unite all western Thessaly with Thessaloniki and Athens, opening important tourist prospects such as Plastira Lake, the beautiful mountain villages of Trikala, Meteora, Pindos and the sights of western Macedonia. There will obviously also be benefits for agricultural and livestock production, but also for processing, as the transport of products will be much easier and cheaper. Finally, E65 is a "green" road that leads to the future and leads western Macedonia to the "just transition", because it will bridge the urban and transit centres of the country through the western Macedonia of defoliation through Enanatia. And in the communications I personally had with Mrs Westager, I stressed this important element in order to ensure the approval of the European Commission, that it is also a project that will contribute to the further development of Western Macedonia, thereby rewarding the bold decision taken by Greece to proceed with rapid degreasing, while at the same time offering Western Macedonia an important financial package of almost 5 billion in order to enable this region to plan the next day of its development, creating - why not? - even more good and quality jobs. It is very important that, through this project, this region of the country is fleeing from one-dimensional and polluting production and that the new businesses that will be set up there will operate in much better conditions. Western Macedonia will now become part of the international supply chains and, of course, closer to the heart of all economic developments. In short, E65 is part of a new production model which is built on a methodological plan, but also on a programme basis. Ladies and gentlemen, the dismantling of the northern part of E65 from the many bureaucratic obstacles and its place in a realisation orbit testifies to the Government's will to turn infrastructure into a headline for development. They at the same time confirm its effectiveness, since, with the same determination, we are moving towards the liberation of outstanding public works that come from the past and to the promotion of new ones. I would remind you of another Ghost Project, the North Road of Crete, who has escaped the stagnation of decades and now, at last, is moving on. Here too, it took hard work to secure funding of EUR 427 million, which finally puts the largest motorway in Europe under construction. There is another vital part of the national network, the Patras Department - Tower of Olympia Road. And here, of course, the disastrous choice of the previous government, the fragmentation of eight legs to give the four you know very well who, it was abandoned and the project was now integrated into the Olympian road contract. It thus ensured the possibility of funding beyond 2023. There is now the assent of the European Commission's Internal Market Directorate. And with the approval of the Competition Directorate - we are in constant negotiations with it, and we think it will come very soon - we are waiting for the machinery to work to eliminate this black hole in the rest of the network of the Peloponnese motorways. I would like to stress, however, that on the secondary provincial network the interventions are multiple. From the Recovery Fund of EUR 450 million - that is to say, the funds we are going to go to complete the E65 - will be directed at restoring, repairing, upgrading roads to seven thousand different parts of the provincial network, which we now know from the study we have done, that there are very serious risks to road safety. At the same time, construction sites are growing on the Aktio-Ambracia axis after the signing of the relevant contract eight months ago. I would remind you that a forty-eight-kilometre road with two lanes per direction and seven unequal nodes will connect Ionian Road to Vonica, Aktio, Lefkada and Preveza. At the same time, it goes ahead with the Kalamata - Rizzomylos section with a budget of just over 250 million, which we estimate will have a contractor in the year, as well as the new regional of Thessaloniki, the well-known Flyover, and two road connections for which I personally committed Thessaloniki - Edessa and Drama - Amphipolis road, three arteries with a total cost close to 1 billion, which respond to the great loose ends that come from yesterday. In conclusion, a public investment programme of EUR 13 billion is currently unfolding in the country with works that are finally moving, but also with the start of construction and the design of many young people. I would remind you of the fourteen regional airports that have literally changed their faces - were delivered three months earlier than the timetable despite the obstacles to pandemic - the launching of the new airport in Kastelli in Heraklion. As far as transport infrastructure is concerned, I will only mention the finalisation of the Convention on Line 4 of the City metro, the first after decades completely new, the largest public project to be done in the country - thirteen kilometres, fifteen stations - which will connect densely populated neighbourhoods of the capital to the rest of the network. In the final straight we are now for the subway of Thessaloniki. Following the decision of the Council of State, the road to the completion of the project finally opens up with full respect for the cultural heritage of the city.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u24	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u25	Dear colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u26	Think about it, Mr President. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u27	...we'll invite you to the actual operation of the project, not the mustaches. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u28	Call the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u29	Please! You had the floor before and no one interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u30	There is, ladies and gentlemen, an undeniable truth with time-consuming power. Development in our country has always been associated with investment in infrastructure. Just this time infrastructure projects may change character, although the completion of the major roads, as I have said to you, is an outstanding one from the past, which will be completed by this government. These infrastructure projects have given rise to many new jobs, have boosted the primary sector, industry, commerce and services. And this is the conclusion from the end of the 19th century with the grand vision of Charila Trikoupi until the first four years of the first fortification of Eleftherios Venizelos, from the creative eight-year period of Constantine Karamanlis to the works of all the governments of Postpopulation made by national and European resources. The contribution of the manipulations of our own government lies in the documented and painful legal effort to remove dozens of paper contracts. I want to thank the Secretary-General for the very systematic work that has been done in this portfolio. Participation of our Government is also in the knowledge of European data, in order finally to ensure Community participation in funding, but above all in the proper planning and organisation, so that the country's infrastructures fulfil their real role, that is to say, to serve the citizens and the development of the country for all, with jobs for all. At the same time, I will repeat - I have said many times from this Step forward - that major projects do not belong to governments, but to the Greek people, as their start-up, their completion, their completion can - usually so - coincide with different parties in power, so we have never hesitated to recognise any positive ones that have been ahead of us. In particular, it is not possible for E65 to mention that it has been auctioned in a government of Samaras, but that part of it has been completed in SYRIZA. What our government wants to be proud of is something different, that it is working to turn the negative into a positive one, and it triggers what has been stirred and does the best where it can achieve this. However, it is not the time for explanations today, but it is the time for optimistic programming. Today, Parliament puts the foundation stone on a development and progress project, and even on the same day of the formal adoption of the national recovery plan "Greece 2.0" by ECOFIN, disputing again those who miserably questioned it, a plan which includes a great many of its actions and the work that we are discussing today. I therefore call on the whole of the National Representation, all parties, to vote on it, because E65 is a new road that opens new paths for our country and especially for Thessaly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u31	If the E65, Mr President, ends the same in time as your speech, then success will be over. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Christos Spirtzis, has asked for the floor, which comes to the Stepma for his speech. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. You've made me wish for E65 too. Before going to the subject of today's debate, I would like to make a reference to what has shocked us all, on the issue of eighteen-year-old Ilioupoli. We ask for public explanations, obviously not from the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, but from the government. We say this because it is the third day that the matter is public, and the name of the policeman and his photo have not been given, and we ask about complaints that have been brought to us by two things. The first: When exactly was made available, because the complaint we have was that there was a marching leaf on March 26, 2021, so when did it get to be made available, as the government and the Greek police say? The second is whether he is a member of the New Democracy. We are asking this because the Greek police and the New Democracy and the government are also required to tell us about the oligories that exist in the public interest in this case and, of course, about the complaints that have been made and to reply very specifically. I should like to close this subject and turn to the subject of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are not drunk, and I can say personally - I think all of SYRIZA - very happy that a major infrastructure project is continuing to complete it. I also heard the Prime Minister, and I heard the Minister for Infrastructure. The Minister for Infrastructure has adopted it for a long time now, but it has adopted half our position. We, and before being opposition and then not just us, but many parties in the progressive world, said that the projects do not belong to any government, to any minister, to any regional or mayor. They belong to the Greek people who pay them. That's half. The other half we have said and have not adopted - the first part you have adopted - is that we are controlled and judged by the Greek people for transparency, efficiency and respect for every euro of Greek citizens. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] These, ladies and gentlemen, will be explained by both the E65 and the other infrastructure projects which have been heard in the debate that will take place. Kyriakos Mitsotakis before celebrated the ECOFIN project "Greece 2.0", but what he describes is not the country's development needs. They are the development needs of the major companies. There is no development need for the country to disappear from small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no development need for the country to support zero support in productive structures. It is not a country's development need to support only large companies, that is what you have as a plan. He also said the Prime Minister that they have knowledge of European data. However, if you were aware of the European data on all the projects you mentioned before, Mr Mitsotakis, you would not go to political negotiation. We have never had Alexis Tsipras as Prime Minister to negotiate with Commissioners by way of derogation from European regulations to obtain approval, to beg for approval in projects, that is, what you are doing. I'm going to be very specific. Don't you know that road projects in the Recovery Fund score with 00? You know that very well. Do you not know that there was no chance of road projects being approved in the Recovery Fund and that you were going with alchemys supposedly on liberation and saying 'Look at the E65 and the BOAK' there? You continue with the works of trade in hope and you will disappoint the Greek people and you will target the projects and you have a great responsibility for that. Says the Prime Minister: “I am following the course of the work of the E65. The fourteen kilometers will be delivered.’ Mr Karamanlis, you had to inform the Prime Minister that the contract that existed provided that the whole project would be delivered on 31 December. You brought an amendment not to surrender the entire project and surrender the first fourteen kilometers. Why? Will you inform Parliament why? Because the southern part of the E65 is inextricably linked to the northern part of the E65. So why don't you hand it over and run for the first fourteen kilometers? You're comin' well. Let's actually go. On December 31st, will you deliver all the southern part of the E65? Have work started in the rest of the way, in the hard part, in Domos, on the turns, where the danger is, as the Prime Minister said? Oh, no. Whose responsibility hasn't they started? What are you hiding? And how much will you get out of the work of other things that you're in trouble and where are you responsible? And because you don't say it, we'll see you. Instead of rushing to communication show and hope trading for the southern part of the E65, you say it won't be ready on December 31st, 2021. Say it. This work came to Parliament from the SYRIZA government in 2018. It started in 2019. You visited it with the Prime Minister. That's not exactly what you visited. The universe's broken. Half the work won't be done. And we ask: is the southern part of the ETUC intrused because his timetable has been diverted? Has the ELH lifted a yellow card and raised serious doubts about its completion in the short term? Of course, what is the problem that you fell off schedule for the remaining sixteen kilometers and not for the fourteen? Give clear answers. We know that the concessionaire asks for compensation for a change of character, while the contract says otherwise. But say you solve this. How long will you do again, second time after 2013, to modify engraving to the specific point where there is a problem? How long? How long to make the modification, how long to approve the environmental study, how long to make the expropriations, to tell when the project will end, the southern part? Again trade of hope. It is the fate of your resignation that you do not finish works. And there's another tradition of your resignation. I'll see you in a minute. There goes the southern part of the E65. That's it. Let's go to the north of E65. You're two years of government. What have you done with the expropriations? Nothing. It is not enough that you have done nothing, that this work will be financed at 100% of public money - it is not a concession to the south and the north, it is a public project on the substance - but you have nine months to complete the expropriations. Why? Why do you not want to overcome the tradition of the governments of the New Democracy and Mr. Souffla who had put 12 months in the original contracts, not making expropriation in twelve months, not for your home, nor for building on a plot? And you've been putting nine months now. And you know the courts in July and August don't work. So from September, that's seven months, that's again indemnity. In other words, the tradition of the New Democracy is contracts along with the whole framework and the institutional framework and the conventions for there to be indemnification. Why do you have nine months, Mr. Karamanlis? Why do you bring ratification today and do not expect you to complete the expropriations, to declare expropriations, to bring the contract? Who's gonna pay for this money? Let's take a look at the institutional part because I see engineers in the Chamber. In Law 4412/2016, it was provided for as a precondition for the opening of the public procurement procedure, i.e. for the tendering procedure to have preceded the declaration of the expropriations required. You have changed this at institutional level, and you have started the procedure for the award of a public works contract or for the award of a works contract to be prerequisite for a provisional or final statement of compensation before the competent court. That's right. You don't even have that in today's contract. Why do you have nine months? Your name is not Kostas Souflias, Kostas Karamanlis. Another trade of hope, therefore, with the northern part of E65 and, of course, very much responsibilities for future compensation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a bit of your tolerance because more has been heard. I don't like talking about the past. What have we cut off from the compensation requested by concessionaires from the four motorways? Over 900m euros. Why do you do it again? The same was the case with E65 in 2013. Again you had amended a specific section of the project, namely the Lamia node and the twenty-five kilometre. And I can see Mr. Kalogannis here telling us about the committees - I heard you - that the mark for the bear has changed. No, Mr. Kalogannis. Engraving changed from SYRIZA because it costs several hundred million less. And it's not for the bear. You did it for the old-fashioned Metsov, because it was 20 kilometers away from Epirus. You are addicted - and I wonder why Kostas Karamanlis continues this tradition of Souflia - in old-fashionedism, as you did on the old highway in '50s, in '60s, on the edge of the land of 'Barba-Mitsos'. And I conclude, Mr President, with this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u33	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u34	I've never interrupted you, Mr. Kalogannis. I love you, too. You know that. You're also a colleague, you're a friend, but politics will be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u35	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u36	How much? Give us some clues. Give me a number. I challenge you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u37	The evidence is here. The evidence is that the northern part of E65 was submitted to the European Commission in March 2019 by the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u38	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u39	Will you stop to finish and I will or will they not suit you? In March 2019, it was submitted to the European Commission. You have done two years because you know the European data very well, to get the approval you took on 18 January 2021, and it has been seven months to bring it from the Ministry to the House. You wouldn't bring a donkey. And you're a Ministry of Transport except for infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u40	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u41	And I come now - and I close with it - in the good investment, development climate that I have heard from the Prime Minister, that all Greece, a construction site, is being built in Greece. The government's been still for two years. I have a request, Mr Karamanlis. Put the road to Descate in the north of E65. It doesn't have to be a highway, but put it in order for people to have a road not to be killed. It's next door after we got the engraving not of Metsovus, but the normal thing we had to get. Let's go to the rest. The "project-symbol", the "large regeneration", the "aggressive work for the country, Athens and Europe", the Greek, which has not entered nor carved in, became a major renovation, a real estate agency. Such a development government! The first week you'd solve everything! A competition you couldn't complete for the casino. And I wonder - and we will say this then - what is the reason why the 'LAMDA' signed without the casino when it was beating down through the institutions and the Samara government and the government of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, that 'if the casino contest is not done, we will not sign'. Tell us about it. Where's Mr. Samaras telling us? Awesome, emblematic work! Real estate office "We sell apartments with sea view"! This is the flagship work. Let's go to the rest of the trade of hope you're making, lying to the Greek people. Thessaloniki - Edessa. Never. I hear various Members of the New Democracy. You haven't been able to do the expropriations for four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u42	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u43	Tell your district manager that. We made you money. Four years. You'll never do it. Regional Thessaloniki. It reminds me of something else. Your government will resolve this, because your party has created it. Thessaloniki - Underwater Thessaloniki. These are your plays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u44	80 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u45	140 is here. These are your works - The Thessaloniki Undersea - and your country account. Thessaloniki Metro. Leave these Syrians, respect for cultural heritage, the international scientific community and all the rest that those here on the left say, let's go. You take the ancient - common sense is - of the Byzantine and Roman period, underneath the Hellenistics, what are you going to do? Ten more years later? Two years you haven't put a meter of wire and you've got a face and you're talking! Of course you have brought the buses of Leipzig to Thessaloniki and the city doesn't have a problem, but that's what we'll talk about later. Other work, Line 4. With you. Make your self-criticism, because when we took off the contest, you told us that Line 4 and the design were the boxes. Would you like to enter the website of the New Democracy - Mr Karamanlis, were you, the next Secretary-General and Mr Mitsotakis, the current Prime Minister - to see what you say about what you are celebrating today, to do your self-criticism? And where have you been? Say it. And I hope that's not what happened to E65. You've been to the three stations of the Piraeus metro line - ready to find them - in Kastelli to put on the starting plate - it's been two years since you went for the joke, but the previous up to the contract SYRIZA has done it. How did you get out of this after you found them ready, I really don't get it! - and now on the E65, you've been stuck and the southern part that had begun. It's amazing! And we go to the Sea of Salamis - the "run" at a rapid rate - in the bypass of Chalkida - at a faster rate - in Patras - Tower. Tell Mr. Mitsotakis that the "famous" who says he didn't get anyone and let him know that you won't finish it. Another government, progressive government will finish these works, Mr Karamanlis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Don't trade hope. You can't or won't, you won't finish it. You're loyal to the tradition of your resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Spirtzi, finish. You've come to take the time of your tritology as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u47	I'm finishing up with a "crime" yet. Because it's not enough that you've stuck it all and canceled it, you're also making "crimes" for the country. Attica Street. What happened, Mr Karamanlis, with the one you committed yourself to after the elections? Didn't the check take place? Is the contract over or not over? And finally, why did you give it to the HICP? Why did you make a framework illegal, outside European law, to be a contracting authority? Why didn't the Ministry make it possible to put on the rest of the 3 billion-dollar extension projects and give it for the "hole" of the black debt? Why are you putting the extension of Kyme as a public task to give it a gift to anyone who wins the competition on the existing Attica Road? I'm closing up saying this. We are truly loyal to what we were saying before as a government, which we were saying before as an opposition, which we are saying today as a Qualified Opposition, and we will say so tomorrow, together with others, as a progressive government: Projects do not belong to any government, to any minister, regional director or mayor. They belong to the Greek people who pay them. But we will check you until the last minute for transparency and for your ineffectiveness and, of course, for each euro of Greek citizens spent in the way it is spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have asked for an intervention. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u49	Mr Minister, I have asked for the floor for a very short speech because I would not like to take the time of colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Mr Spirtzi, I really do not want to deny what has happened in the years of your government, and like the Prime Minister and we have told you, where we could continue to do some work. But let's see the numbers, 'cause the numbers are talking. In the four-and-a-half years of your government you have settled projects totalling less than 800 million, and so far, in two years of our government, we have settled projects of 3,2 billion euros. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let me say this again to SYRIZA's fellow Members. Under 800 million euros in four and a half years,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u50	The Castlei, don't you put it in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u51	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u52	...then when you played the country's European course in dice and then you turned around with your head in the back and signed memos. That's who you are. And this line is the one which guarantees the European perspective of the country and with the money of Europe it makes the projects that you cannot do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u53	We continue with the first circle of speakers with a natural presence and invite the first speaker Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy to Step. Mrs Perka, Mr Constantopoulos and Mrs Apatzides will be followed. Here, Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, big projects, as the Prime Minister said earlier, belong to the Greek people and not to a government, as they are usually not completed within the life of a government. It is often wrong for those who carry them out in relation to those who have envisioned them. A characteristic example of Plastira Lake, a project that was arrested by "Bavros Kavalaris" in 1925, but was implemented by Constantine Karamanlis. Both the lake and the hydroelectric plant were founded by Karamanlis in 1955 and were inaugurated by Karamanlis in 1960. The continuity of the state is being tested in large projects. And if in Plastira Lake, the later Karamanlis government did not do the same thing with another emblematic project for Thessaly, Acheloos, the prevention of the desertification of the Thessaly camp and the production of green hydroelectric, environmentally friendly energy. The previous government of SYRIZA reviewed the water management plans of Thessaly, removing the possibility of transporting water from Acheloos, thus stopping the projects. Today it is necessary to revise the management plans, with the possibility of relocating water from Acheloos, in order to continue incomplete projects. Given the government's expressed will, I am convinced that the obstacles will be removed which will enable the completion of the multitude to be completed. Ladies and gentlemen, E65 is the last of the roads to development that were studied and licensed by Kostas Karamanlis' governments over the period 2004-2007 thanks to the insistence of the then Minister of IPHOTO, my compatriot George Souflia. With E65 and connecting PATHE with Egnatia they open up development prospects not only for Thessaly, Macedonia and Epirus, but overall for the country as it acquires a modern artery that was really missing. Greece's geographical position makes it crossroads between Europe, Asia and Africa and a transport hub in the eastern Mediterranean. As long as it has the appropriate port infrastructure and modern road network. The upgrading of our country as a gateway to the European market, which has been taking place in recent years, undoubtedly has many beneficial effects on the economy which the Prime Minister listed in detail earlier. However, transport infrastructure does not only serve this objective. Modern safe motorways reduce the risk of road accidents. The provincial network, you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, is full of iconostasis in the memory of those who lost their lives. Unfortunately, particularly in younger ages, the first cause of death is traffic. This negative record is also due to the bad road network. But equally important if not more important is the cultivation of road behaviour. And I would like to take this step in congratulating the Mitsotakis Government on introducing the road safety course into education. Ladies and gentlemen, E65 went through forty waves until it was completed. Insurmountable problems were initially brought about by actions against the Greek State, causing changes in permits and resettlements, actions which eventually came but then a holiday after having brought unjustified delays. Mr Stavros Kalogannis mentioned in detail the Committee on Production and Trade, which, due to the portfolios he had with the Governments of Karamanlis and Samaras, has a very deep knowledge of the issue. And, of course, the work has not remained unaffected by the economic crisis that hit the country. Fortunately the funding and the central part of the project, Trikala - Xenias, was built. However, it was evident that the northern and most difficult part of the project, Trikala - Egnatia, without the completion of which the work would be collision and would not perform its role by connecting PATHE to Egnatia. Thanks to the personal interest of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the systematic work of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Kostas Karamanlis and his associates, Trikala and Egnatia overcome the obstacles and the northern part of Trikala - Egnatia joined the Recovery Fund. But let me say, Minister, that following the completion of the major roads, important regional and local projects need to be arranged. I am thinking primarily of the link between East Thessaly and Western Macedonia through the Larissa-Kosani road corridor. Since the larisa-Farsalon road, which has also passed through the waves, is now being implemented by the region of Thessaly, the link between Larissa and Kozani through Elassona, is a project that will provide both regions with traditional communication, an additional development perspective. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, we must draw useful conclusions from the history of this road and avoid mistakes. As Larissa - Kozani cannot be financed by the European Union - I will need to have a little tolerance, Mr President - as another path with PATH default specifications, he will have to submit his characteristics with a reduction in cross-sections and rationalisations. It will be surreal to continue a study on a project that cannot be financed and not to be reviewed on a more realistic basis. Minister, I believe that your genuine interest in projects that are designed on a rational basis, with specifications guaranteeing safety in the movement of people and goods, will also give this project, which has been pending for years, a clearer implementation horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u55	We will give the floor now to Mrs. Perka Theophist from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that after my country's Prime Minister's place and presence I come to say other things and say first of all that the concern of the lignite regions, local communities and our own has increased greatly since this speech. The solution to liberation and development is the northern part of the E65, which will link Grevena to Ptolemais, which will link Kozani and Kastoria, which have vertical axes to Egnatia - Florina, of course, has no vertical axis to Egnatia - and will solve the problem of liberation. And they constantly ask questions, and we should be ashamed of all the fact that a region that is devastated in the Recovery Fund is not able to find any resources for this change in the productive profile of a region that has given Greece light so many years and we hear that a road with the mystery and shovel, as it used to be, will come the development of western Macedonia. Minister, please at least for the vertical axis, the irrigation works must proceed. He wants backup, and he wants other things. It is disgraceful at the moment that we have a Recovery Fund that we have only seen, we have not seen any lines of action, in which areas of 12 billion loans, to have nothing to apologise, but only rehabilitations. Use to shut holes where there is investment interest in some contractors. That's what's going on. And the country's Prime Minister himself comes and instead of saying "all right is a piece, a project. It's okay, it's coming, and what does it say? That's what Suffle used to say. 'I will go backwards', 'The paths of development'. Of course, the Coalition then voted against the concession contracts in 2007, and unfortunately we were confirmed with the adverse effects due to the initial choices, immature works without preparation. I'll remind you of some time-conventional provisions. Funny things, and you should all be ashamed of that. Twelve months, he says, delivery of space to make the works without any expropriation. Anyone who knows from public works knows that expropriations take a lot of time. It hadn't happened. And, of course, for archaeology four months. In Greece, work and a clause for the Greek state unless it delivers the space in four months from archaeology. The transport of the public utilities networks will be carried out at their own expense and at their own expense. Even PPC had appealed to S.T.E. The wider public with the public was confronted. Those were the contracts! Of course, the unbelievable clauses and the constant pressure on concessionaires and construction companies for the revision in their interest of the contracts of the already linguists. In 2010, then, and 2011 began to stop work, they stopped because they, he says, had a reduction in revenue from tolls. However, they continued to collect them despite the interruption and followed by the previously EUR 353 million compensation agreement to construction companies - take care - not to the concessionaires, because it was considered that the delays were entirely borne by the Greek State. Regardless of whether manufacturers had not submitted any studies for approval. This was ignored. And there is also a EUR 50 million extract because, he says, the work was interrupted due to a lack of funding had to be compensated. Yes, but the contract itself said that in order to ensure the financing, the concessionaire was responsible for the manufacturers, not the Greek State. That money was given. In April 2013 there were some figurines - whoever remembers - and the relaunching of projects was announced. In fact, the signing of agreements with concessionaires and construction consortia was announced as a result of delays, while the compensation paid to a minimum of EUR 400 million. At that time, we had shown with parliamentary scrutiny that the amounts collected by the concessionaires up until that time were much greater than the costs of the parts of the works which had been built up until then. But here we also had other contractors, which were the banks. These banks therefore had no reason to seek to relaunch projects. Why? Because they were collected by the Greek public, blackmailing, threatening otherwise the concession contracts, the financial obligations of the concessionaires, the swaps, and at that time the banks won around 1 billion. When there was a recapitalisation of no government went to tell them "You will, however, have the obligation to finance the concessions." That's what's happened. Are we proud? So the paths of growth went down. This was what was said, with complacency, 'tracks of development'. Because this continuous creation of deadlocks led to a default one-way. Fortunately, of course, the SYRIZA Government has been relaunched, so that the pre-depreciation of all these works is not continued. They couldn't stay that way. In any case, this must not be repeated, but I am very afraid, after what I have heard today, that this will be repeated and the crisis in the country's economy and collapse will be repeated if we continue to do so. We're talking about the northern part of E65. Even to complete this has a hat of 38m euros and a natural object less than seven and a half kilometers. In the southern part, which the SYRIZA government went through, at least we had escaped that. We're giving again. It's okay. But now we're going a little bit further. Not even talk about strategic planning. And when we say 'plan', we do not mean a set-up of the construction, business and so forth, but rather a policy which results in public regulation and intervention. This tendency to abandon political planning is seen by the connection of the northern part with liberation. We said, you have a list of projects on the Recovery Fund, a summary and a list of projects. What investor? Me, Mr. Skokakis responded with great honesty the other day and said to me, "We don't have the Recovery Fund planning and what we want". Because strategic planning means political views, where the country goes, economic and environmental, and so on, and so on, and so on. No, whatever brings us investors, we'll see the investment interest and so we'll move on. Inert capital, lost money. That's not how it works. Anyway, for the frustration, what to tell you is tragic. But look at you now, we said, mysterious and silver shovel, what you do, so you do, disaster. But I'm going to say one more thing about this particular ministry. If this government characterizes it as a sewing ruptured everywhere, the ministry is the epitome of this policy. I'll stay on the railroad a little. You told us, Minister, about the works and the absorptions. What exactly about the railroad? Three Community Support Frameworks and two NRPs were eaten from the country, with financial corrections continuously from Europe. Why didn't we make a railroad? We made streets, streets, streets, streets. Soon we'll start connecting neighbouring towns with a highway. Where did you see these?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u57	And finish this, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u58	So to get to the railroad, then. ERGOSE's president and CEO announced the launch, says, of a competitive dialogue for railway projects worth 3.3 billion euros. We have told you that with a competitive dialogue in railway projects you will only waste time and it is not appropriate. But let's see some of them and absorb them. Over the four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance was absorbed around 970m euros, an average of 215m euros a year. So in 2020, my Minister, EUR 45 million. It's a negative record since the establishment of the ERGOSE. There's never been before. For the subway of Thessaloniki, I think you've heard it from many both inside Ethoussis and outside the country. It's a shame to see this stubborn work. And, of course, about the tower of Patras? But I like being optimistic, because you're optimistic too. You have not yet received approval from the Commission, but since you are optimistic, we can only wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u59	Next speaker Mr Constantopoulos Dimitrios from the Change Movement and warm request that time be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the central Greek motorway is a project of special importance to our country, an axis that connects eastern Greece and, of course, a project that is part of the trans-European transport networks. The design of the project is part of the process that we have started since 2000 with the preparation of motorway projects. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the construction was ratified by Law 3597/2007, while in 2013 the contract was amended and the three deferred parts of the E65 were foreseen. Of these, today's agreement to amend the convention to be ratified, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers. This penalty is for the northern part of EN65 and the deferred sections of Trikala-Grevennes, which are thirty and a half kilometers, as well as Grevena-Egnatia, thirty-nine kilometers long. Ladies and gentlemen, the project is financed by the State, with its integration into the recovery and resilience plan "Greece 2.0" and indeed with an estimated budget of 452 million euros, where I would say that along with the BOAK, the Northern Road of Crete, are the two roads to be financed by the Recovery Fund. So once there is funding, there will also be completion of these projects. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the PASOK, the Change Movement have left indelible, I would say, our mark in the construction of major projects. We are the party that did the great work in the country. We are the party that put the country in a developmental orbit and this position we served as both a government and an opposition. Let me remind you in 2006-2007 of the ratification of the agreements on motorways, but in particular of the E65. We, as PASOK, have put our labels on LODs and weaknesses in the approval and expropriation schedules, which were, of course, suffocating for the public at that time. However, ladies and gentlemen, we supported the national effort, recognising the great national importance of these projects. We are in favour of a fruitful and constructive opposition, not voices, not screams. However, Ministers, today the ratification of the amendment agreement on the E65 would expect it to be part of a comprehensive strategy on the part of the government. Of course, this is also true of the implementation of the country's major road corridors. Besides, the Recovery Fund is a golden opportunity for the country and its resources could also be used for more axes, which of course have been pending for decades. Minister, with my successive questions, but also with a recent time-consuming question I have brought to your attention, I have repeatedly put to you the need to build the Platygiali Road - Ionias Street - Agrini - Karpenisi - Lamia E65, a road axis, I would say, which has been part of the well-known trans-European road routes since 1985, which, of course, has been confirmed in 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be stressed here that the importance of the axis is enormous, since it will link the port of Platygialio with Ionian Road and PATHE with E65, the western one, that is to say, the eastern axis and there will be a modern road network that will offer security and speed of travel, a road that will give new impetus to trade, tourism and economic development. However, ladies and gentlemen, the construction and operation of this road line also serves other national and European interests. But there has been a mere promise for decades, without the Ministry giving concrete answers, despite the fact that it is a part of, I would say, a great road for a country that, as I said, will change our country's image. Studies should therefore be carried out immediately in order to prepare the projects. Minister, when discussing my topical question on this axis, you referred to the need for new studies so that the connection between Agrinio and the Ionian road can finally be advanced, and you recently described it as a'special, important national project'. You also referred to the additional studies in the Ionian Road - Guria - Platygiali - Astakos, as well as the need for studies on the Agrini - Karpenisi - Lamia section, so that these projects can then be financed through the use of European funds. The essence, Minister, what is it? It's not to waste any more time on the back. Especially for the connection of Agrinio and Ionian Road. Let me remind you of the great commitments from the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, where we actually had no results. Today, Mr Ministers, you and your government are judged because you decide. Because it is an important task that the up-to-date studies will have to go ahead immediately and run. It is not possible that the largest urban center of Itolokarnania and Western Greece stays outside the work of the Ionian Road. It is not possible to undermine the prospect of developing the port of Platygialio, due to its lack of connection to a modern road. A road network that naturally does not honor any of us. It concerns the Agrinio-Carpenes road network. Please, Minister, visit it in particular, to see its tragic risk and fading image. It's time for actions, Minister. This work could be directly integrated into the Recovery Fund and be a priority, as could other roads. I will also refer to the diagonal road axis of Lamia - Itea - Antirio, which will link the regions of Thessaly, Central Greece and Western Greece. A project referred to in the Pissaridis report which can be a lever for development for the wider region. For this project, we expect the Ministry's operations to finance and build it by making use of money and funds from the Recovery Fund. Finally, I cannot help thinking about the positive outcome of the Ambros road, namely the motorway linking Ionia to the Airport of the Coast and the Actios - Preveza Sea Tunnel and the island of Lefkada. A project that had been pending for a decade. Through the relapses we have experienced with the four contractors, the works freeze the contest and the legal disputes, we have now, in any case, been implemented and very important. We are, of course, awaiting its completion, because we must not forget and no one forgets the tragic accidents that have occurred on the Amphichia - Vonicas road network and the blood tax paid by Greek citizens and Greek taxpayers. With respect, therefore, in the memory of all of this we believe and expect the project to be completed. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, construction of the northern part of E65 is a great project for central Greece that will improve the lives of the citizens and promote development in the region. We are voting in favour and expect the government to implement its commitments and for the other roads to which I have referred. Finally, I have heard a colleague refer again to the Acheloos Committee. I have one word to say. It is an issue that has been judged in the S.H.E., it has been judged in the European Court of Justice, so it is again a matter of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u61	Next speaker, Mrs. Apajidis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u62	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the E65 motorway looks like a today's bridge of Arta because of the many adventures in its construction that would deserve a modern popular fatalism. Deficiencies, inhibitions, scandalous delays, often holidays. And what doesn't have this story? Only the haunted victim in this modern age is the Greek people and the public who are again called upon to put back to gain from private individuals. This is a story that keeps from the far 2007 with sanctions and modifications from all the Memorandum governments. Today, fourteen years later, the motorway is still incomplete and the connection between Eastern Greece and western Greece is still pending. The big problem, however, is that delays in work have been paid by the haunted public over the years, as the licensed company has successfully claimed compensation of EUR 10 million to the detriment of the Greek people. A lot of characteristic is the amendment that took place in 2013 during the acute phase of the financial crisis. The State undertook the full financing of the project, but also undertook to grant its share of the revenues of Ionia Road to the concessional company of the Central Greece motorway to cover the costs of the deferred section. This happened precisely because the concessionaire in central Greece is the same as the one on the Ionian Road. That is why we can also talk about a national contractor in this case. Then the two main Memorandum governments of SYRIZA and the New Democracy had a good cooperation between them. SYRIZA validated a contract concerning the southern part from the memorial of Athens-Thessaloniki to Xyniada in 2018, while New Democracy recently amended the contract to complete the northern part from the Trikala to the Egnatia Road. When we talk about cooperation between the two Memorandum parties, we are not exaggerating at all. In fact, the wording of the two drafts, namely the 2018 version on SYRIZA and the New Democracy's proposed one, are impressively similar. They give the impression that they come from the legal part of the concessionaire of the company, being cut and sewn to its measures. But there is a very great price for the delays in this modern bridge of Arta. While in the original contract in 2007, the State only participated with EUR 518 million, today we have reached EUR 1.371 million, ladies and gentlemen. Why? In the last two Memorandum Governments, which our country has known, the public has taken full responsibility for funding the two deferred sections, namely the South on SYRIZA and the North on New Democracy. So, what if there were mistakes, postponements, vacations, after the end of the day paying the public? If the private investor, in this case the national contractor GEK TERNA, faces a low-performance risk in the operation of the projects, the State comes to subsidise the mess, and there is even more provision for a ban on the construction of competitive projects that could adversely affect traffic on the motorway. Estimates are also made for compensation to the concessionaire for the alleged performance of the project, as well as for toll levels. These estimates ignore the general course of the Greek economy and its growth or stagnation, which is why it is dangerous. Of course, one will step up the contribution of the Recovery Fund, but this is exactly the problem, and it is the reason why Mera25 is voting against the bill. Noms such as the proposed one show how the domestic oligarchy faces the Recovery Fund. As a chicken with gold eggs, which will be used exclusively by it, without channelling resources into activities that will benefit the Greek people directly. And of course, as MERA25, we may have criticised the Recovery Fund as negligible from a macroeconomic point of view for the domestic oligarchy, but it is still a source of direct and easy enrichment, and this is the main object of our criticism, as all the amendments tabled since 2007 have been permanently harmful to the public and beneficial to the national contractor GEK TERNA. In any case, as MARA25, we fully recognise the need to develop the regions of central and western Greece and in a period of defoliation, and defoliation is ecologically important. As MERA25 we support it for the sake of renewable energy sources, focusing mainly on the use of floating wind turbines. In such an environment, then, it is important that central and western Greece is a hub for the best possible interconnection of ports, such as Igoumenitsa with Volos and Piraeus. Airports such as the one in Ioannina and other major airports in the country, so that we have a full network of motorways. The risk is, of course, the interconnection of ports and airports with the Western Balkans, as well as with Central and Northern Europe. However, precisely because these issues are the challenge for the future, it is of great importance how we deal with them. Unfortunately, in the debt-growth of Greece which the country has become, we have the sad phenomenon of sacrificing everything, in this case, public funds, in order to build the modern bridges of Arta, on terms that are always in favour of the national contractor, in a demonstration of sensitivity to the State guaranteeing the profitability of individuals who do not show anything else by this government. Only business groups, such as contractors, are assured over decades in their interest, while the people are not compensated when they become a prey to their fate because of the economic policies of the rulings. This is a model where the economy and the people are absolutely dependent on Greece's debt colony. Only money is given for public projects, which will ensure a certain way of development and interconnectivity. This money is being dismantled by the oligarchy, in this case with the contractors, while the public is always called upon to pay and compensate for the broken and the mistakes due, whether in specific government policies or in adverse circumstances. For all these reasons, because we believe that this course of derailment and public burden cannot continue, we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u63	Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, after Mr Stamenitis, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u65	All right, Mr. Comrade. So, after Mr Stamenitis, Mr Scandalidis, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, will speak. We will continue with Mr Zachariadis, Mrs Skondra, Mr Pana and Mr Ljupi. Mr. Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate concerns the ratification by the Greek Parliament of the Agreement, which was signed last June between the Greek State and the company under the name 'Central Greek Automotive Company of Concession'. The purpose of the agreement is to amend the provisions on the concession contract for the design, construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the motorway of central Greece E65, with a view to the construction of the northern part of the E65, i.e. the Trikala section, Kalambaka, Egnatia Road. It is a flagship project for the road infrastructure sector, not only for our country that will make the connection between western and southern Greece and will make a significant contribution to the regional development of the region of western Macedonia. In other words, the highway from Lamia to Egnatia will be connected to Central Greece with Thessaly, western Macedonia and Epirus. As has been said and known, E65 was one of the five motorways that were auctioned under a concession contract by the then government of New Democracy in 2007. It is a work that has been afflicted very much until we get to today and ratify the northern and last part of the House, as the economic problems that followed in the coming years and specific political decisions - I will add - have delayed very much the completion, not only of this, but of all these five major motorways. I would remind you that by 2011, we had thirty increases and taxes on movements that eventually led to the reduction of movements and the stop of roads, as in 2015 we had the big decision to renegotiate all these conventions. So what happened? They cost Greek citizens money, as the Greek State should also contribute to continuing the projects and, of course, lost valuable time. I would remind you of the project: one thousand fourteen thousand kilometres of modern motorways, the paths of development with the participation of the private sector, which really now are changing the country. I do not think we need to say much about the great effort and systematic work of the current government, of the Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis himself, but also of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, so that the northern part of the motorway can be completed and the project can finally be completed. Besides, the result proves the work done. Both historical and data have, of course, been analysed in the committee's meeting and today by the majority rapporteur. It became clear that the will of the current government was from the very beginning to overcome all obstacles and to unleash a professedly troubled work. It is now more than certain that the northern part of E64 will be completed on the basis of the timetables given by the Ministry of Infrastructure. And because something has been said about the timetable for expropriations, that eight months is a very short period of time, when it was twelve, I think I remember that there were seven months in SYRIZA. Did the former minister mention it here? However, what is of value is to stress that what is shown today is that the New Democracy Government is governed by the culture of efficiency, which is based on and applied systematically by stepping on the triad: aim, design, implementation. The infrastructure sector is one of the most characteristic examples of this position. Ladies and gentlemen, these two years have been completed by the New Democracy election victory in the elections on 7 July 2019 and the balance sheet is undoubtedly positive. The New Democracy national plan for the infrastructure presented by election in March 2019 takes a step forward, showing a balanced development in all subsections that form this sector in our country. I am referring to the projects that have taken their way, in terms of road networks, rail lines, metro and, finally, energy infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, the developments and the positive results, the evidence of consistency and effectiveness for the current government, another presumption of inconsistencies and inefficiency is for the previous SYRIZA government. And because we have heard from time to time criticism that we have no programme, that we are choosing dubious methods such as the PPPs, which you yourself used when you were government - we have also heard criticism, because we have not put projects into the Recovery Fund, which were not allowed to enter road projects, while your parliamentarians in the region blame the government for not having put any road network projects in the area of recovery - I am going to go into the process to look at another example, apart from the excellent work that E65 is, in an important project that the former Minister mentioned. It is an important work for the Prefecture of Pella and for the whole of central Macedonia. Obviously, I am referring to the upgrading project, construction of the road axis Thessaloniki - Giannitsa - Edessa, where the former Minister said it has become zero. This is a great thing, which is another example, one more case of the many unblocked and took the road thanks to the organized and coordinated work of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. Fortunately, for the citizens of Pella, the Mitsotakis Government and the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport did all the necessary to have studying maturity throughout the project, as they proceeded with the signing of three contracts with the contractor for the preparation of the road study in Edessa, which money from 2014 existed in the Ministry and no one was involved in them. They then described the 'national importance' project as making use of Article 7a to proceed quickly with expropriations. Four and a half years with SYRIZA government turned zero in this piece. Finally, modalities of funding were also ensured through the selection of PPPs. Indeed, taking the opportunity, Minister, I would like to state that we can consider upgrading the work of the existing roads, namely Halkidona, Paralimia and Melissa, Montenegro, so that the whole project can have a single cross section, that is, two lanes per direction. I believe that this is possible, it does not create problems or delays, and it will enable us to take a long road to European standards as a whole. And I return to my thoughts by saying that I am sure you know very well and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, that we can refer to dozens of such cases where the previous government has done nothing to move on or where something has made them more involved. In the committee, the Minister, but also now, gave an important element reflecting the huge gap between the two governments, that of SYRIZA from the New Democracy. And I am referring to the fact that in two years' time the New Democracy Government has almost compromised 4 billion projects, and the previous government has, in four and a half years, reached 800 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my position, I too would like to stress that ratification of this agreement puts the tracks of the completion of the E65 and must be voted on by all the wings of this House. And that, because such projects cannot be a field of political controversy. They belong to Greek citizens and contribute to the development of the country. There is no doubt that this is a project that will substantially contribute to growth, central and regional, create jobs, break the transport isolation of important areas of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u67	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u68	At the same time, it will play a key role in environmental protection and climate change policies, clearly through its contribution to the major project of liberationism in western Macedonia, since it will provide substantial support for the transition to the new period. Construction of the northern part of E65 is another proof that the current government has a vision and specific plan for how our country will step up speed and move forward. I call on all of you to vote in favour of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u69	We shall now give the floor to the KINAL Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that when I came to this House today, I thought I would be in a debate where there would be nothing but great, if you would like, a party confrontation, because, as everyone points out by all parties, the projects belong to the people and not to the governments that implement it, since most of them are in successive governments, because they do not end within four years and, finally, I have attended a meeting that suddenly acquired a very important character. I am amazed to hear the Prime Minister make a serious speech on the northern part of E65, that it is, in fact, the fifth incorporation of Thessaly into the national body. So let us welcome the national integration of Thessaly. It does not matter that some important and perhaps more important projects were prioritised in these areas, during many decades, by many governments and by different natures and origins, to remind only of the urban structure of the area or the resurrect of earlier in the early century and others that have been through the hundreds of forty years since Thessaly was finally incorporated into the national body. Of course, I have to say that the degradation of the importance of the implementation of E65's overall project is still far from me, since the initial design, along with PATH, Ennatia, the Ionian Road and its extension to the western Peloponnese and the northern axis of Crete, is a national project very important for the country's infrastructure and for its intra-regional and interregional development. In fact, the completion of the project contributes to the development of the Greek region, it unites regions such as Thessaly, Western Macedonia and Epirus, which are regions with great backwardness in growth, with high unemployment rates and obviously benefit, as well as residents who can move freely and quickly serve the transport sector needs for our country and its establishment as a transit hub by linking roads, ports and rail networks. And our rapporteur has asked a number of questions about the cost of the project, calculations and estimates of the performance of the project, the participation and compensation of the concessionaire, but also the level of tolls, the level of the technical preparation of the project, whether there is evidence of changing the length of the last section, etc. They're very specific questions. They have not responded, from what I have seen, to the committee. We expect the government to answer them in detail today in the adoption of the law. You will allow me to say in this light that we vote positively and want to make a criticism of the government, because we believe that there is no comprehensive development and productive reconstruction plan, but neither will there be any provision for dialogue and consultation on a national plan. And I come to what I consider to be very important. I want to make a macroscopic position. The country's development plan, following the decision on the convergence programme and the great increase in the pie at the beginning of the 1990s, due to European aid and, if you like, to the large number of European funds, has been designed for the integrated infrastructure in the 1990s. There was the time of the major projects that changed the country's form in the period 1993-2003 and led to Greece in 2004. And I want to remind you of the admission of today's Prime Minister that the country has come to the edge of its modern history with Greece of the Olympic Games. The works that were designed and started at that time were long-term works, not enough one or two terms to complete. I will bring in an example of a negative and a positive one. The positive example is the Rio-Antirio Bridge and a number of other positive projects, such as Egnatia, and the negative example is the Land register, a much more complex project, which, unfortunately, all governments, are supposed to be able to implement quickly, either through their wrong designs or through their practices, have not succeeded in implementing it after too many years. So, not taking such an absolute position in terms of a public works policy and every government claiming for itself infallibility - there is not this infallibility - and at the same time all of us claim that the projects are for the Greeks and not for the governments. At the time, therefore, the long-term projects were designed and clearly entered another era, because many years followed by the crisis and the Memorandums, and all the necessary resources were not needed to continue a public investment programme with budgetary constraints, to the extent that it could implement this long-term planning. But we are now entering the 2020-2030s after the pandemic and the economic crisis. And it comes for the second time, I would say for the third time - because the Marshall Plan was the first time in the 1950s, the second was the convergence programmes in the 1990s - which are increasing again the pie, that is to say, the total resources available to the place through the Recovery Fund and all the decisions taken by the European Union and which are given the opportunity to design a global development for the country. We therefore claim that your Government does not have a development plan for the country, that it follows the stalked one. He tries to finish works or continue projects and I would say selective, picking and which are what he decides to continue every time, and should be planned from the beginning. There should be two axes: one is the completion of the major ongoing projects which have not been completed, in order to complete the infrastructure in the country, and the second is the turn to productive reconstruction, which a huge part of the resources must go to development, not any more of the infrastructure projects, but to change the development model and competitiveness, to increase the national product through another type of development. You have appeared here with a series of seventy, seven hundred, I do not know how many, hundreds of projects, in any case - by quoting a plan that you triumphantly say that it was approved by Ecofin, as if it were not going to be approved by Ecofin, a plan that sets out the green development that we all agree, the digitisation of the state that we all agree, all that you say and we say it is said by SYRIZA. In the objectives, no one disagrees with the structure and the ability to change the model. And here you have a huge responsibility. Because so far you have been making a policy on the hustle. There is a vision missing to implement the objectives that we all agree on. With what state? With the state you voted on? With what priorities will these be? What's gonna happen first and what's next? I will give you an example. This decade should be the decade of the railroad. There should be an integrated intervention on the railway network of the country for transport, which is what will solve the major problem following the roads and there should be a special reference to the programme which says that "we have so many resources on the rail network, with this logic, with this coverage, in this direction, with these instruments". There's no plan. And then what's your plan for every district? Just connect with the streets the regions? Where will the production structure be based? Should it not be in every region around development poles? Have you identified them? Have you made a joint decision with the regions? Is self-government and bodies involved in this, in what decisions will resources go and how and with what priority? There isn't. And there's no planning to put society in the game of development. You just call the businessmen to take the initiative. That's not our problem today. Our problem is society and productive forces to be inspired by this work, to get into the game, to give their opinions, to set up their institutions, to have an institutional reconstruction of democracy and society so that there can be development of a different type. This is unfortunately not the case, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that is the main criticism of the government's policy, not only in day-to-day and management. There are these. It's hard. Many of them are dark, many of them are selective. Interest is served. All of this through a framework, through a framework of vision, how the symphony of politics and economy in the country is going so far can be interpreted and, depending on its position as a progressive, conservative, prosperous social classes, say its opinion and make its controversy. But other development for the country of prosperity, the increase in national product, wealth does not exist with this rotten logic. And that's what we disagree on. And while we are the ones who have actually built both national plans and infrastructures for the next phase of our country - we do not claim infallibility or caress them - we want to discuss them with you, decide something different, take another way from the one we take now. If we all understand that, it's good. If not, we're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u71	Mr Zachariadis Konstantinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Giannoulis, do we not vote here? He wants attention, because by voting 'yes' we can be accused of sabotage of the country's road infrastructure. We have also seen this happen in the last year on a systematic basis in the field of pandemic management. I say this because yesterday we had important announcements from the Prime Minister. We all realised that the last mile has been crossed a little, became the last chapter, and there really are questions of management and of fact. How did we get from the interview in the newspaper 'BILD', which said that in July and August, things will remind us of a normal summer in today's statements by Mr Arkoumanias for three thousand cases? We really have a crisis in Greece, in Europe, in the world. Are you preparing as government for the good and the bad scenario? Do you do anything but communication? You called April and May for 70% immunity by June. We're at 40 percent. There's a 30% distance. Now you're talking about the end of summer. Evidently the vaccination of health workers and nurses in nursing homes is a one-way pathway to protecting patients. But it is necessary when such overturns exist, and a self-criticism process. I saw the Dutch Prime Minister, Mr Rute, who made self-criticism because the measures relaxed prematurely in the country and brought the cases up. I remember the German Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, who has often apologized to the German people for failures in the management of the pandemic. Here in Greece, Mr. Mitsotakis is always the fault of someone else, ever self-criticizing! And he comes last week with an interview with "KATHMERINA" to talk to us about sanitary sabotage from the opposition from all over the region. So I am mad at this, I am deeply offended, and I think it undermines the effort we have been making in the country for eighteen months. And I want to remind you of a few things in the National Representation and the Government to come up with some understanding, because we seem to have a long way ahead. So when we campaigned as a SYRIZA for "We live Home", did we make health sabotage? When we agreed on traffic restriction measures, did we make sanitary sabotage? When we got vaccinated first, did we make sanitary sabotage? When we made proposals to strengthen the ESS, did we make sanitary sabotage? When we asked for 2020 tight testing at the country's entrance gates, did we make sabotage sanitary? When we were talking with President Biden to break vaccine patents to get all people in the world vaccinated faster so that we could all be safe, did we sanitary sabotage? When we had an event with the party president, Mr. Mosillo and Mr. Geraghiafa, were we sanitary sabotage? When we agreed at the Conference of Presidents to operate in a low composition, did we make sabotage sanitary? When we made a proposal for a mutual acceptance minister, did we make sanitary sabotage? When we sent the sanitary officers of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to the ESS, were we sabotage sanitary? When with the money from the SYRIZA fund, we donated to the Kastoria Hospital of a furnace and a portable radiological machine, did we sanitary sabotage? When we even agreed to irrational and inefficient measures such as the curfew at 18.00 hours on Saturdays and on Sundays that increased the crowd before 18.00, did we make a sanitary sabotage? When everyone's phones were open for whatever it takes, did we make sanitary sabotage? When from this step, the Chief of Officer's Representation, Alexis Tsipras, recognized the completeness of the vaccination process, did we make sanitary sabotage? Why am I saying all this? To show and prove that Mr. Mitsotakis is a politician who feeds and pursues the division, a politician who even has no division invents him. Mr. Mitsotakis did not want consensual opposition in the pandemic. He had this from us and other parties. He wanted an Opposition buzz. He wanted buffalo Opposition for the Pecha list, wanted buffalo Opposition for the failure of the EVA algorithm last summer. He wanted a buckle of unpopulation when he opened the schools and said what fifteen or twenty-five. Let me see how the schools open in about one and a half or two months from now. He wanted buffalo Opposition for crowding in public transport and for means that were purchased without air - condition. He wanted a buckle of biliberalism when the sanitarians fainted out of tiredness. He wanted buffalo Antipopulation when northern Greece arrived to fill all the ICUs and patients to be invaded in the corridors. He wanted a buffalo Opposition when he violated health measures in Parnitha. He wanted a buffalo Opposition when he made receptions to Ikaria. He wanted buffalo Opposition when they beat the youth in the squares. He wanted buffalo Antipopulation when undoubtedly banned his right to meet at the Polytechnic University, even though the parties had said they would not make marches, but demonstrations of symbolic character. He wanted buffalo Antipolitics when half of the cabinet was vaccinated with several Dapids, taking the line from cancer patients, prosperous and diabetic. He wanted a bucket of antipopulation when four vaccines are available throughout Europe, and here for some age groups, to which I belong, there was only one option. He wanted a buffalo Antipopulation when he made the dishonoring campaign of 150 euros for youth, instead of seeing France's nice and smart example. He wanted buffalo Opposition on direct assignments that used pandemic as an excuse and not as a need. He wanted buffalo Opposition when he left the world of focus without support and the Minister of Development came out and said "Get me the keys". It wants buffalo Antipolitics when 15% increases occur in PPC current +10% increase in August 2019. He wanted buffalo Antipolitics when he made a monothematical ESS and the non-COVID patients were sorely inconvenienced. He wanted buffalo Opposition when we told him to coordinate the private sector, the public sector and the military sector, and he did not do so for obvious reasons. He wanted to buckle Opposition so he could act like Moses. He wanted buffalo Antipoliticism - and I close, Mr President - to tell us in May 2020 that he defeated the coronary, to state undisturbedly that we have more regional hospitals than should, in order to further privatise health infrastructures, in order to pass the miserable and unacceptable anti-educational, anti-educational, anti-institutional bills without social reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u73	Good. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u74	Buffet Opposition doesn't have. We're not doing Mr. Mitsotakis a favor. We have an institutional duty, we have a democratic obligation, we have a historic responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u75	Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Zachariadis, the truth is, for the moment I'm confused. I didn't understand if we were talking about the pandemic, or if our subject today is the E65...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u77	It's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u78	...because eight minutes you spoke and you didn't talk about this particular subject of the bill we're discussing. So we are talking about one of the most contagious projects involving Greece, Thessaly and Karditsa, the highway E65, an eighty-kilometre road that is part of the Trans-European Road Network and extends from PATHE to the height of Antheli Fthiotidos, runs the Thessaic Campos and ends in Ennatia. As early as 2007, when the first contract was announced for the construction of this great project, the axis that would unite Eastern Greece with northern and western Greece and thus the country with the whole of Europe, the Cardinals and Cardinals were resuscitated, because we were finally going out of the road isolation, with what this implies for the development of our region and our local economy. However, the total cost of construction of EUR 1.6 billion has been lagging behind as a result of funding. In 2013, it was relaunched in its middle part, from Xyniada to Trikala, the most mature part, with the 570 out of the total EUR 825 million coming from European resources and the Government of New Democracy to renegotiate the concession agreement with the Commission, in order to find a solution to the issue of funding. At the end of 2017, when the eighty-kilometres of this section were released, with my placement to the local media, I had spoken about the communication bubble that the SYRIZA - ANEL government set up at the time to inaugurate the part of E65 that was already ready, a figure to distort reality and give the feeling to the citizens of the country that a major motorway, with the seal of the Tsipras government, is delivered to circulation. But I will not dwell on your communication policy, ladies and gentlemen. Like then, today your political and management failure is trying to cover it with communal artifacts. In addition to communication, however, there is the substance. We must not forget that. In 2013, the then government of Samaras, which you cursed and mocked, made titanic efforts to overcome the insurmountable obstacles to the construction of the major road corridors, including the E65. You forgot in SYRIZA that at the time, as a opposition, you were standing up against reacting, shooting and devoting the New Democracy, speaking about facilitating the plumbish and serving friends and dissidents. You have forgotten that in the House you have voted against it by a celebrity. The opening, of course, did. But that's for the prestige too. Mr. Tsipras went and inaugurated a small and “blind” road division of Cardiotiko Kampos, which he had fought for some time earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am very pleased, so I will not continue with the SYRIZA propaganda. First of all, I am pleased that, with the completion of the E65, a major problem is solved in my region and in western Thessaly in general and a long-term expectation of the Cardiffs takes flesh and bone. And I am twofold pleased that this work, like the largest strategic projects for the country, has been launched and implemented by the great historical party of the New Democracy. E65 on Costas Karamanlis began, on Antonis Samaras, and on Kyriakos Mitsotakis it was completed. Ladies and gentlemen, the course of this work was not with rose petals. At some point, he was in danger of being cancelled. In 2013, some MPs, whose regions were affected, started a race. With persistent and painful efforts we have managed to include itself among major road projects and to move forward. Today, that insistence and our painful efforts are rewarded and we are coming to the completion of the motorway. We are closer to getting out of the roads and giving development opportunities to the rural economy, to trade, to entrepreneurship and to tourist development, while creating jobs in an area that keeps the sceptres of unemployment. In October 2018, the European Commission approved the EUR 306 million for the southern part of Xyniada - Lamia, which is expected to be completed in 2022. Until a few months ago, the North Department was still living without funding. Following persistent negotiations by the Minister for Infrastructure and Prime Minister personally with the Commission and the successive contacts of Mr Karamanlis with the European Commissioner, we now come to ratification of the amendment of the original concession agreement on the project and the northern part now takes the road to construction. The benefits of the E65 do not need to be explained. We all realise that it is multiple and directly visible. Safe and fast transport of materials and products, important among local economies, thousands of jobs. At the same time, it provides substantial incentives for regional development, both at the time of project construction and beyond. Minister, as a member of the Carditsa Prefecture, I would like to congratulate you on all your efforts that have finally fruited and promised the revival of our local economies. At the same time, we hope that Karditsa will now enter both equally and dynamically on the country's tourist map. Now, gentlemen of the Ministry's leadership, it remains the completion of Acheloos' works, which I believe, with the determination that you can see, you will also put in this seal. Also, to congratulate the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who, with determination and morality, finally puts central Greece and Karditsa on the European road map. In difficult and great, eventually, the country needs the New Democracy and Prime Ministers like Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u79	Next speaker Mr Panas Apostolis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u80	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the convention we are debating today on the central Greek motorway E65 and the construction of the North Trikala - Egnatia is about a great and special development and strategic work for our country. In particular, the motorway from central Greece, which connects eastern and western Greece, is part of the trans-European transport networks and is indeed a key road. So let me make a historical regression in the development of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, the original motorway contracts are a process that began in 2000 and came to be ratified in Parliament in 2006 and 2007. Then, as PASOK, we voted positively, despite our serious points on the LODs and weaknesses in relation to the timetables for authorisations and expropriations that were suffocating to the public. We have, however, voted positively because of the great national importance of these projects. Then in 2013, with the resolution of Law 4219 the original contracts were ratified, and then the three deferred sections were predicted and this was because in the period 2015 to 2019 there was no major project from the government at the time and no one was proclaimed, while some that were routed, such as the BOAK or the Patra - Tower axis, remained stagnant. For E65 we arrived in 2018 where there was the amendment of a contract that was found at 70% of its implementation to continue this work and, as it seems, we will be going in decades instead of three years to complete it. But today, with the mobility provided by the resources of the Recovery Fund, we have ratified a new agreement on the northern part of the axis of the southern part of the E65. As I have already said, this project financed by the State with its integration into the recovery and resilience plan "Greece 2.0" with an extended budget of 452 million is one of the two roads along with the BOAK financed by the Recovery Fund. We are well aware, therefore, that the completion of the E65 will make a decisive contribution to the development of the Greek region, the region of Thessaly, the region of western Macedonia and the region of Epirus, regions with great backwardness in growth and with high unemployment rates. Although it is a task which must finally be delivered and circulated to the citizens and the needs of the transport sector for our country, we are concerned that roads such as the Ioannina-Cacavia section are not financed and degraded, so that Ionian roads are not completed and our country is not connected to trans-European routes through the western Balkans which would undoubtedly reduce transport times and make use of all transport infrastructure in the wider region. Our concerns and objections do not stop here. Initially, the National Recovery Plan did not discuss it in the House and beyond the information was not placed in public consultation. At the moment, we are talking about projects which have already been decided out of hand. Furthermore, the very high uniform tolls envisaged for all sections and the E65 and the BOAK, despite increased public participation, do not justify this high price, and in the retreat of Egnatia road it is planned to have a toll of EUR 0,063 per kilometre in the future. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have also asked the Committee on Production and Trade the following questions, firstly on the cost of the project, secondly on the calculations and estimates of the performance of the project, the participation and compensation of the licensee, but also on the level of tolls. We also asked how public funding would result in the operation of the motorway with EUR 38 million by 2038. Also, what is the level of technical preparation of the project in relation to environmental and technical expropriations, displacements of public utility networks and archaeological work. I will not tire you anymore, despite all the specific questions that have remained unanswered. Upon completion of the E65, all major motorways will be connected and integrated through PATHE and Egnatia Road with a particularly positive impact on all transport. It is one of the projects that will establish our country as a transit hub by connecting the road network, the ports and the railway network. However, we realise that there is no comprehensive development and productive reconstruction plan, but neither the mood for dialogue and consultation on a national plan. The question, therefore, is yes, that major projects should be carried out, but that they should be implemented by design and by means of a structured view on major projects, as far as our country is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much for Mr Pana and for the consistency in time. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the convention now being ratified allows for the completion of a work of breath for western Macedonia, Western Thessaly and not just of a project of crucial importance for facilitating transport and developing economic activity. We are in a step before the E65 motorway becomes a reality after years of planning. His story began fourteen years ago, in 2007, when his construction was auctioned. Since then, and because of the financial crisis that has taken place, delays and difficulties have been followed. The northern Trikala - Egnatia had been temporarily deferred due to the inability of the Greek State to fulfil its obligations. So far, the E65 has been described as the blind axis of the country. At the moment, there is a 80 - mile [80 km] section from Xyniada to Trikala. In its final form, the motorway will have a total length of eighty and eighty-one kilometres from Anthis Fthiotidos in connection with PATH Patras - Athens - Thessaloniki to Grevena in connection with Egnatia, running the western part of Thessaly. The southern part of the motorway from Lamia to Xyniada is to be completed and delivered in 2022. Following methodical efforts by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister for Transport, the remaining section of the Recovery Fund was approved. The Recovery and Resilience Fund is a golden opportunity for the Greek economy that the government intends to make the most of with draft and proposals that were immediately accepted by the European Union. Projects of central importance for the economic life of the country which lay the foundations for a healthy and productive Greek economy both directly and over time have been included in the plan. The EUR 30.5 billion that our country will receive from the fund is also channelled into infrastructure. Eighteen irrigation networks are to be built and supported in the primary sector with a view to increasing productivity. The Northern Road Axis of Crete is a work of breath and substance to interconnect the four major cities of the island, achieving security and speed in the movement of residents, visitors and goods. Metro Line 4 is a necessary extension of Athens Metro which has been stagnated for many years and now there is the possibility of realization. One of the projects financed by the Recovery Fund is the northern part of the central Greece motorway E65, a total of seventy kilometers and five hundred meters and a budget of 442 million euros. Its completion is placed in a 3-year depth, and it includes two tunnels, thirty two bridges, six nodes and the Trikala node. This part of the motorway will have two plus two lanes of traffic and of course an emergency lane. All environmental studies have already been completed with respect for the particular environment of the area and biodiversity, while technical studies, expropriations and archaeological research have been carried out for part of the motorway. The construction piece will therefore be put into effect immediately and hundreds of jobs will be created according to some estimates during this period. In its final form, the motorway will bring revolutionary times of travel. Athens - Metsovo in four hours, Lamia - "Egnatia Street" in an hour and a half less than the distance of Athens - Kosani in four and a half hours. Important to the economic activity of the whole region is the fact that the ports of Igoumenitsa and Volos will now be connected by creating a new development perspective for Magnesia as well as for combined transport projects - port, electricity - starting in our region. A road axis is created that connects with eastern, central, northern and western Greece. It is part of the trans-European road network. Its role is crucial for the trunk of mainland Greece to acquire a modern road network based on European standards, making it easy for the first time to connect with Italy through the port of Igoumenitsa, but also the western Balkans and the rest of Europe. A modern highway offers safe and fast travel and transport by absorbing important European resources. Its construction is breathtaking in an area that is in a difficult transition period in the process of liberation. In western Macedonia, it is based in practice on attracting firms for investments that have so far found it difficult to access the region. With a glance at more environmentally friendly policies, the period of lignite mining has been completed, but creating a real and significant gap for the economic life of western Macedonia. The government has firmly filled it with incentives and actions, but also with funding, so that the region, Kosani, Ptolemais and the whole region can find new economic outlets. Briefly, the government continues to implement the vision of a Greece with more opportunities, closer to sustainable forms of development, with economic activity competitive and modern. In just two years and under adverse international and national conditions due to the pandemic, the government has demonstrated and continues to prove that commitment and determination to the goals bear and yield the best results for Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Mr Paul Paulakis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a very brief reference to the pandemic and yesterday's lecture by Mr Mitsotakis, because in the short term the Chief of Officer's Vice-President, Alexis Tsipras, will make statements. Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, freedom, after the urban revolutions of the 18th and 19th century and the socialist revolutions of the 20th, is an arbitrary post of human existence and has thus been recorded in the constitutions of the countries of the world. It is not a privilege whose application and range you as Prime Minister, as a merciful monarch of the Middle Ages. Yesterday's lecture was a split message that promotes social automation and cannibalism, hurts the vaccination effort and is your hopeless attempt to cover the catastrophic management of the pandemic with the nearly thirteen thousand, unfortunately dead so far, the eight and a half thousand died outside the ICU, and at least six thousand could have been saved if you had brought the treatments we have been calling you since November. This is '1-0'. Secondly, Minister and patriot Mr Kefaliannis, you are two years government, you are not two months, you are not six months, you are not a year. I would like you to tell me - and I ask the Members of the New Democracy - a project, not much - small or large, huge or medium-sized which is currently happening in the country - you are two years of government - and which is what you have planned, financed and compromised. If you find one for me, I'll play tumbles! Whatever work is being done in the country at the moment, from Chania to Evros, was either financed, whether it was settled, or its competition was planned in the government of SYRIZA, Christos Spirtzi, Minister of Infrastructure, Alexis Haritsis, Minister of the Interior and Skourletis, on Alexis Tsipras Prime Minister. Not to talk about the work you go to hospitals and inaugurate them, which we, Dourou, etc. I'm not gonna get that. I'm talking about other projects. One thing I'll tell you, Mr. Kefaliannis, to prove it. You know very well about the Sfakia Altar. How long has Christos commissioned Spirtzis finished his study? It's been over fourteen months. Fourteen months you stress that you will provide additional money. Have you given it to me? Can't Adonis give them because I'm from the Sfakia? What's going on? Why don't you give them to start the project? It's ready, studied. I am talking about a small project in the range of 1,200,000 euros that we financed with 800,000 euros because so much they said it would cost then "Ocean" in February 2019. We have been in 2021, the study has been finished for fourteen months and the additional money still has not been provided. Is that a lie? Bring in E65 and move! Mitsotakis came to speak today. In March 2019, the envelope. For seven months you have been given 'ok'. Why did you do a year and a half to approve the file? Do you understand - was Spirjis before here - that during the period 2015-2019 works that were killing 15 and twenty years with PASOK and New Democracy governments ended? The Patra - Corinth - I was young and old! - Who finished it? Forty years, right and right, you were making it. Spirji's finished it. SYRIZA's done it. The road up to Arta and Preveza, who finished him? Spirji and SYRIZA have finished him. And you come here and move! He's compromised three billion euros, he says. Oh, no, no, The 1 billion of Castle's where does he charge it? If we hadn't passed the contract from the House, you would have done the same thing you did to the BOAK. What did you do to BOAK? You remember a joke by Harry Clinn saying, I'm hurting here. Don't be a kidney? Don't be liver? Don't be spleen? Don't be intestine? He's a kidney. The joke of the old. You're doing the same with BOAK. Spirjis brought it ready with the first phase of the competition, with the pre-selection of the two companies, planning for the three sections that are the only way to do it. You started to say: we'll give it all from the EDP, we'll get it all from Europe, we'll get the ANFAs, the mushrooms, the mushrooms and the barbecues! And what are you doing to BOAK? What SYRIZA and Spirtzis had planned with tolls we didn't have. That's what you did to BOAK. And let one tell me I'm lying. This is for '2-0'. Thirdly, give me one more minute, Mr President - I expected Mr Mitsotakis to have the elementary equilibrium today to answer, say a word about this huge issue - he is the Prime Minister of the country - which has emerged after the specific revelations made by the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO' since yesterday. And extremity of the tomb is silence on the grounds reigning! And I'm saying it in a few words, and I'm filing the evidence. Mr. Mitsotakis has been making a false statement "where you've been" since 2017. He then declared that the company, a foreigner, an offshore French, owned by Voltaire's house, gave it a donation, transferred the shares, and disappeared from the years 2017, 2018, 2019, from his assets. It proved, however, - here are the papers and I am tabling them - that on 20 December 2020 his wife, Mrs Grabovski, transfers the shares. It transfers the shares of the company that it supposedly donated - so it held them - to a Greek company, to the Greek company GEMI, "MGPG Investment Consulting Private Capital Company", a company that was built two days ago on December 18, 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Polakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u86	I shall conclude, Mr President. What does that mean? It means he was lying for four years in the "subjects" he testified. And these two acts, that is to say to be a relative in offshore and to make false "from time to time", carry imprisonment sentences of up to two years, deprivation of civil rights, three hundred thousand fines, and so on. Is that what you're going to answer? Leave it to Vaxevan, etc.. It's data these, evidence, here they are. Are you going to answer? We will also intervene in the Commission of the Member States as well as in justice, because justice has moved with Stournara's oral testimony to order a preliminary inquiry into my own legal loan that I pay back. Not like the loans from the "KERYKA" and the New Democracy. And now here, with evidence, he doesn't see, he doesn't hear! Mugamara!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u87	Good. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u88	I am sorry, Mr Chrysochide, because it is a moral matter. There's a question with Shef Valyrakis. Listen, colleagues. Shefis Valyrakis seems to have been murdered. It wasn't an accident. There are testimonies, they have been testified and even by people who were afraid and went and testified here in Athens that "they..." - they are named - "we saw them hitting him with a pussy in the head rather than falling." This has been done for three and a half months. It's a brand-named complaint. The Chalkida Prosecutor, the Port in Evia, what's he doing? Who does it cover and doesn't go any further? Will justice at last be dealt with by a politician who has honoured his presence in the Greek Parliament and, at the moment, six and a half months, he has not been "gained" while these things have been filed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u89	Mr Kefaloyannis has asked for the floor for a small intervention in relation to what has been said. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u90	At first I did not intend to speak, but while listening to my fellow Member, Mr Polakis, speaking about Crete, I have to answer some things. Mr Colleague, let me tell you this. For four and a half years, starting with the BOAK, which I think is the most flagrant task, I should like to remind you very soon what your government has done. Minister of Finance Mr Varoufakis visiting Crete in 2015: "BOAK does not need to, because he will spoil the natural environment". It's registered. For four and a half years, all you have done - to be fair - is a traffic study. It's over. No premeditation, no study of the project, unlike our own government, which did at least sixteen studies and pre-studies, so we submitted the environmental impact study a month and a half ago, so that consultation could begin. You had not guaranteed funding, you had not guaranteed any timetable for the project. I remind you this too. You will deliver according to the design a colossal project: Chania to Agios Nikolaos. There wasn't either the option for Kissamos to Chania...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u91	Lies again? Tsipras announced it in the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u92	Also, there was nothing to connect the airport of Chania and the port of Souda to the BOAK and there was no studying maturity for the issue of Lassithi. Do you know what your government did? It was the only government to endure works, Panormos - Exodus 65 million. In fact, I had tabled very many questions for Parliament and other colleagues, of course, from the Change Movement. And you managed and replied a project involving BOAK. So I think it's hypocritical at least to come to the Greek Parliament today. But let me remind you of something else. You were also personally against the privatisation of 'FRAPORT' with regard to airports.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u93	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u94	I would even remind you of our election show on TV CY 2014, which you said "when the airports are privatised, I will resign from the congressman". And yet you're still a congressman! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u95	Mr Pinheiro has the floor now from New Democracy. Then Mrs. Kefala from New Democracy and Mrs. Tyloridou from SYRIZA, with which the second cycle of speakers will be completed. You have the floor, Mr Prussakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law sets out a timely infrastructure project of national importance. Following the negotiations of the current government with the European Commission, it ensured ‘green light’ in order to complete the northern part of the E65 motorway by guaranteeing its funding from the newly created Recovery Fund. It is a long road project of over seventy kilometers from Trikala and Calabaka to Nea Egnatia west of Kosani. It is expected to bring multiple benefits at national and local level. The interconnection of central Greece with the north through a highway, the design of which is based on the most modern international standards, will reduce the time to travel, increasing the level of road safety. Moreover, it will strengthen the Greek economy as it is expected to increase about 0.5% in the country's GDP, while creating over a thousand new jobs. There will be temporary parking spaces, which are unfortunately missing in New Egnatia, but also rest for travellers, when required, thus strengthening our country's international position as a node of infrastructure in the wider area of south-eastern Europe. The new motorway favours connections with Italy through the port of Igoumenitsa, the western Balkans and through them in central and northern Europe, and towards the east through the Gardens of Evros. This will positively influence the tourist movement as the country's tourist destinations come closer to the large urban centers, while at the same time achieving the faster and easier transport of goods and persons from the edges of mainland Greece, to and from the European countries. This is therefore an infrastructure project which will give a new impetus to the region and to its development and expansion. The region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace and, in particular, Evros will benefit even more, because the northern axis will ensure traffic along the entire length of Nea Egnatia. Mr. Secretary, with the political decisions of your Ministry, you and the Minister have proved you are in agreement with the Prefecture of Evros. I visited you on 12 March and also on 27 May, with a rich agenda on infrastructure projects in our county. Consequently, cooperation and diligence are gradually resolved and conceived projects in our region, such as the Great Dereio dam, the works at Alexandroupolis airport and the launch of the work of the East Regional Road of Alexandroupolis, which will end up in the local port. Projects that have been ignored for decades for the region are now under way with the Government of New Democracy. Thank you very much. But the great work of the N65 gives us satisfaction, but also expectations. Its benefits will be dispersed throughout northern and central Greece. As well as for the multitude of vertical roads in Evros, which began with great expectations decades ago of creating a modern rapid circulation road for European standards. Unfortunately, the result is an improved version of the old national road and even this has not been completed. The expropriation procedures in the southern part of the axis in the villages Tavris, Komvos, Ennatia, Evatonas, Cornoflia, Soufli, etc. are pending. The completion of the above procedures is absolutely essential in order to proceed to the re-publishment or revivation of the dissolution of the contract as long as the legal conditions are of course met. The need to complete the project is self-proof. In line with the design of the new highway that includes section two plus two lanes I suggest, like all vertical axes, that they have two lanes per direction. Consider the corresponding relapse and on the vertical road line mentioned above in line with the railway line, which you have decided to modernise, secondly, align and, thirdly, elect it. The geostrategic position of the extreme prefecture makes it a transit and transport hub. Increased traffic loads must be managed in order to avoid delays in time and suffering. In addition, the active customs offices in the region are under-operating as they fall short of infrastructure and staffing capacity. The customs office of the Gardens, the gate of Greece and Europe, could ensure traffic, passengers and goods in the complained and costly Nea Egnatia. We need new modern infrastructure through PPPs, capable of staffing and transferring competences to the private sector. At the same time, it is proposed to upgrade the entrance and exit points of the Gardens, Castanes, Ormeni and Kyprinos to border parks and economic villages, which will give economic breath to the points and the wider region and prevent the outflow of hard exchange in neighbouring countries. The implementation of this proposal will mean the beginning of the utilization of the cost-benefit and complaining motorway in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, without the traffic burdens of Nea Egnatia which are lost in favour of the so-called Egnatia Andrianoupolis - Captain Andreovo - Sofia and not just. The highways forming a runway ensure a rapid and secure road transition. But in this case, Nea Egnatia does not fulfil the purpose of construction, namely the rapid and secure movement of persons and things. Having thirty-six frontal tolls from the Gardens to Igoumenitsa causes delays, costs and produces a negative environmental footprint. Seventy-two minutes are lost from the Gardens to Igoumenitsa, the work of Mr. Spirtzi, SYRIZA project. The future, Mr Minister, as we have already talked repeatedly, is the introduction of satellite tolls. This is an innovative proposal with an economic and ecological sign and for which my office has produced a premeditated study and I have tabled it for scientific research at the dean and at the Polytechnics of Demography, which has decided to self-finance the economic technical study. Unfortunately, the implementation did not proceed as a result of the well-known extremism of the then Athanasios Karabine dean by the former state-run Minister of Education Kostas Gavroglou. However, today, ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling them. I am tabling this study on the Minutes of the House and the Minister for Information beyond the oral and written. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios (Tsos) presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There will be rational, proportionate and more fair charges for citizens. The total cost of their entire operation will be low and it is estimated that the use cost per kilometre will also be low. I would like to stand by, Mr President, and would like to see you for a minute on the question of control and surveillance of motorways with great experience because of my post in the body of the Greek Police, but also because I was trained in Germany on the issues of dealing with the problems arising from the motorways. I am referring to the institution which I believed and which I have promoted firmly and unequivocally to date, road sections. The New Egnatia Road, the Ionian Road and the new motorway we are talking about today, but also any older motorway must be sufficiently policeed in order to maintain the highest safety levels. Let's not forget we're a tourist country. I propose that the motorway segments increase, expand and receive the best attention, and even now that it is the time for concessionaires. You will proceed and give all these remaining motorways to the concessionaires. We are therefore on time. I think that the operation of these services will give all the advantages that must be met on motorways that really carry the world and products quickly and safely. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u97	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Bukkokouros, asked to speak a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u98	Yes, Mr President, thank you. I never personalise the opposition in parliament, but the attempt of a first-class SYRIZA official just surprised us. While we are discussing serious issues in this House, development and public works, it is the Step of the Parliament's head office to spill poison policies and create impressions, attempts to challenge the independence of justice, the objectivity of the pre-inquiry authorities, the parliamentary committees that are discussing and meeting, and decide with the participation of the entire political system. And all this for some temporary impressions, from the Prime Minister's wife to the death of the late Sife Valyrakis. And I say this because the Civic Opposition adopts them as a whole. Applause I have heard and no reservation. We therefore say to the Qualified Opposition that we fully respect the separation of powers and the independence of the institutions, but it seems that the Qualified Opposition remains faithfully committed to the doctrine'send someone in prison to win the elections'. In democracies, and indeed in mature democracies, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not simple, we applaud every speaker whatever he says without considering our responsibilities for the separation of powers, for the independence of institutions, Mr President, and all that from the Stephen of this House. And finally, he's been tired of four, five, six years now of the continued, lyric attack on the Prime Minister's wife. It would be fairer and more honest politically to attack the Prime Minister himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u99	We will now give the floor to Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's ratification by 24-6-2021 of the amendment of its provisions from 31-5/2007 concession contract for the project "Study, construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the central Greece motorway E-65" shows us in the clearest way what the result is after methodical, serious and silent work. The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, with the full support of the Prime Minister himself, achieved an important goal, an objective that has been unfulfilled for years. The implementation of the northern part of the E65 is certainly an emblematic project linking Athens with Italy through Igoumenitsa as well as the western Balkans and from there to central and northern Europe. It is also perhaps the most essential action to support Western Macedonia. We are dealing with a modern highway, which will upgrade the connection between the area and Athens and Central Greece. In practice this means supporting companies already active in the region and attracting new investments. In short, with the E65, whole regions will come out of isolation. Such projects and projects - I lend your words, Minister - do not grow in one night, but they require a long-term job and most of the time it does not seem like. These seventy miles are more than just a road’s immobilization. It is the completion of the E65 which, along with the southern part, is moving on, connects the two main axes, Egnatia with PATHE. This structure gives breath and upgrades road transport in our country. Our government sets targets and succeeds them. In particular, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure has drawn up an integrated project throughout the country, with a total of more than 13 billion euros, with important new works and also emblematic works, which have been blocked for years and many have written them out: the 4 Metro Line of Athens, the multi-faceted Patras - Pyrgos road, the Metro of Thessaloniki, the North Axis of Crete and how many others. The work at the Ministry for two years has started to bear fruit and, Mr Ministers, I congratulate you on that. But let me also stand on another multipathic project, on a ghost-like project that has been described as its construction, which has gone through forty waves and is a timeless demand and resentment of the continents, especially the citizens of my constituency, the Ioannina. I refer to another seventy kilometers, the links between the Yannina and Cakavia. More than twenty years have passed since the so-called "Western Axis", which would join Kalamata with Trieste and which would therefore constitute the western connection between the Balkans and the rest of Europe. From this great vision came true on Greek territory only the middle part, the Ionia Street. Since then a lot of water has flown and a lot of ink has been spilled, but this route, Gianna-Kakavia, had the same fate as the northern part of E65, since it had already been completely abandoned in the previous years of SYRIZA governance. I am sure, however, that with the political will of the Ministry and the Government, as well as the cooperation of all the parties involved, MPs and self-government, the most appropriate financial instrument will soon be found to implement this section, the very important one for the Yanninas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much. The reason is now Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou from SYRIZA and beautiful Kastoria. Then before we go to Webex, I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "But, to the Prime Minister, we are addressing and not evading the answer," he said in 2017, "I have no illusions about a society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature. Those who have attempted this have finally destroyed democracy and individual rights." And he came here today to say that everything you said, you do. 'We have said it', he says, 'and we do it'. In fact, you have strengthened the inequality in the Greek society by bankruptcy law, labour law, your unacceptable attitude to education with the exclusion of thousands of young people from the Greek universities to become a North and a Client in colleges. With what you are preparing for health, following this health crisis that proved to be the value of the public health system, you restore the scenarios for privatising public system structures. Because you and the Prime Minister do want inequality. We hope, however, that now that he has received reports from Voltaire's house, he has been taught his saying: "All people are equal. It's not the origin, but the virtue only makes them different," Voltaire said. We therefore hope that the Prime Minister of the country, because he is a family's offspring with a name, does not have the right not to observe and not apply the laws. He should therefore give clear answers about where you were and he should, first of all, keep the laws. So we are really coming at a very difficult time to decide on the future of this country, its infrastructure, its development prospects, to face up to all these challenges that have been created, and as a result of the pandemic, on an economic and social level, to talk about another development perspective for the benefit of our country and our people. That is why balanced, fair regional development is essential. And the Prime Minister comes here today, with a communal feast, with an overreact, to say about this northern part of the E65 axis, which we are discussing is the solution and the panacea for the liberation of Western Macedonia, is the solution and the panacea to get Thessaly out of isolation. It even came to say that in 1881 the liberation of Thessaly took place and a hundred and forty years later we were doing this great work, the part of the northern axis of the E65, and actually what are we doing? Do we compare Thessaly with the rest of Greece, with the trunk of the Greek state? We have said, communication, but also a measure that does not harm. Obviously this work is very important, especially for my region, for western Macedonia. But you are presenting it to you as the lyrics of growth. Try to give him a dimension that doesn't have and silence even the fact that this project had a complete dossier for approval from January 2019. You have delayed two years, you have taken twenty years to get the much-conscious approval, you have achieved it in the face of the Recovery Fund, you are also responsible for the delay, and for the extra sum of EUR 38 million, and you are telling us that this project is the top task of the Government, the country, our future prospects, of the new generations. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this project really helps to develop infrastructure. It is a project - it has been analysed by other colleagues - which since 2007 has had too many problems, the SYRIZA government has started the southern part of this project and has already done all those procedures. But one project alone is not enough. You are talking about the ligniteification of western Macedonia, when in a very rough manner the Prime Minister of the country at the UN conference on climate change in 2019 provided the ultimatum that all lignite plants are closed until 2023 and Ptolemais 5 until 2028 without any design. And from there on, the government ran to make the design, make the master plan, genomes, without one suggestion to complete the other. A characteristic example, as we speak of the infrastructure in the region of Western Macedonia, is the railway link between Greece and Albania, where the government does not have a fixed line. This work began with us. In fact, we connected this work from the Krystalgate to the Airport of Kastoria, it has been approved by INTERREG and the studies are running. And the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure comes in April in Kastoria and in question about this project, says that there is no concrete plan, no definitive route, we will see which solution is less costly, we will see which solution is less time-consuming and we will start from a zero basis. On 17 April, 2021, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation On April 23, 2021, the Minister, in a parliamentary question we tabled, says that there is no change of design, that the project is progressing properly and that is the best route. In the same ministry, the Minister says it is the best route that passes both from Florina and from Kastoria and the Deputy Minister says that we will plan it from a zero base and that we do not know what the right route is. And otherwise, there is a plan in this government for what we want. We recommend that you consult, coordinate, so that no more time is wasted. And if you're having trouble making your own plan, you've found it ready. It is the project "Investment and Transport Strategy" launched by the SYRIZA Government and completed in 2019 and intended to form the basis for the sustainable development of the country. So these are the projects, you are stalling in this plan. You bring first plan I and not the base plan that was 6 billion, but plan I, which was 13 billion and you take it to your work and leave the 16 billion plan II. Either way, you've got it ready, go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we will first begin with four comments on what the Prime Minister said earlier. Experimentally, briefly. The first is the renovation of the fourteen airports of 'FRAPORT', which we know about the scandalous contract, with which the Greek banks were sold. Renovation of these fourteen airports cost about 430m euros. Of these 280 million were with subsidies that Greece is entitled to from the European Union and the 177 million we have recently given by subsidising the profitability of 'FRAPORT' in 2020. These two amounts together make a total of 457 million, so we understand that since the renovation the 'FRAPORT' has had profits. The second concerns the development of Greece with infrastructure, as he has said, in the past. He obviously meant the streets, if we look at the rest of the infrastructure projects, such as sewerage in Mykonos, the infrastructure in Santorini, the electricity supply of the islands from PPC, let us leave them better. Where did this development of Greece now end up with infrastructure projects? At the corruption party, which we know very well that since then, there have been many times ten times the cost of square than is the case in the other countries of Europe. So all this has led to overcompensation and bankruptcy. Now on the subject. In the E65 Lamia - Grevena we have mentioned many times, stressing also in our government program of four hundred ninety-pages that this is a very expensive project, with limited benefits, which certainly does not need to be found in the miserable state of the economy. In general, however, for this project, as well as for other projects such as this, we believe that they are reference points for the domestic complex that has been exploiting our country's European programmes since the 2000s, without stopping it, despite the fact that it has made a major contribution to our bankruptcy. We believe that, unfortunately, the same things as the NRP and the motorways will be done with the Recovery Fund for which the domestic oligarchy is already competing, taking positions on various media and websites, with a view to making known pressure on the government. Furthermore, the work of the N65 began in 2007 at a time when Greece's GDP was at 230 billion euros, in 2008 it went to 240 billion euros, while Greek companies had expanded to the Balkans, having an important place in the economies of many of their countries from which the troika demanded the withdrawal of our banks. Therefore, the construction of the N65 may have contributed with the enthusiasts of Egnatia, who are unfortunately going through its sale, to the better interconnection of mainland Greece with the Balkans, while there was easy access to the loan that was wasted. This fact is paid to the multiplier today, but without having learned absolutely anything, since over the last two years the waste has continued with uncontrolled public lending. It is accompanied, as is then, by revisions of the statistics, recalling the virtual increase in GDP with the turnover of prostitutes, etc., by Mr. Horseson of the New Democracy, in order to reduce technically the debt ratio to GDP. The project was signed in 2007, and was built in 2009, almost throughout its length - before the north - and stopped in 2011. It continues today with a little increased the cost of 2007, despite the fact that, at least, wage costs have been considerably reduced. Of course, the Minister may have accused SYRIZA of a complex in Patras - Tower, which was finally cancelled, to return to the previous consortium, but this "complex" led to a 50% reduction in the budget, which did not happen with the E65. Besides, 38m euros are provided in addition to the tolls that SYRIZA may have complained about, claiming that he would not pay them, but eventually voted in favour, confirming the secret cooperation of the two parties of the Troika interior, in which of course the Change Movement with its new LNG is involved. Incidentally, despite the fact that the two of the three parts of the E65, north, central and south, have been delayed, as have the completion of the middle, nothing is mentioned in the agreement on the extension of the 30-year period which had started in 2007, while the financial statements of the main road expire in 2037. We will submit part of it in the Minutes, mainly because we were surprised to hear the report of revenues of EUR 40.1 million from derivatives, asking the Minister where they came from. Continuing this project is one of the most expensive motorway projects, remaining at a slightly increased level since 2007. EUR 1.7 billion, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. In other words, twice the cost of the Rio-Antiri Bridge and more than the metro line 4, costing 1.2 billion or BOAK, EUR 1.32 billion, according to its recent presentation to Crete by the Prime Minister. The European Union has, however, criticised the E65 for its expensive cost, as we will submit to the Minutes later, all together with a report by the newspaper 'THE VIMA', where, according to the auditors of the European Union, the taxpayers were charged with an additional EUR 413 million, according to the report, which we will also present in the Minutes. Here, it should be noted that the new national manufacturer, and not just TERNA, is 100% shareholder in both the E65 Lamia - Egnatia and the New Road, with the acquisition of the Spanish 'FERROVIAL'. So the vertical movement from north to south, from Grevena to Athens will be reconnected and controlled by the "TERNA". Interesting, now, was the report by the New Democracy MP and former Deputy Minister of Infrastructure in the committee, where, among other things, he presented a solution to reach the road closer to Ioannina, so that there would be an alternative connection to the continent, even to Igoumenitsa - although both ports, Volos and Igoumenitsa, will be sold out as well - creating a link with Volos, although problematic in its southern part again. In our view, his proposal is absolutely correct and should be heard by the government for reasons that there is no time to analyse here. More generally now, it is a road that nobody seems to want, nor do the residents in this form, but only the contractors and their shareholders, such as the Latsis family and Mr Marinakis, who are involved in "TERNA", as we will testify in the Minutes. I would like to close with a few questions: What will happen if 38 million are exhausted and others are needed to cover costs? Who will cover the cost of 38 million of the grant, as will 38 million of the expropriations, according to the 25 euros per square square that we calculate, noting that at times the concessionaire has received generous compensation from the State, and we will also submit to the Minutes? What will happen, in cases where there are events of force majeure, such as today with the pandemic or a snowstorm where the New Road had been interrupted, despite the fact that it was not allowed by law? Will the public pay the expected revenues, such as the 177 million in FRAPORT or the 130 million in the Athens International Airport, to which German companies are also involved? Will it at least force them to be insured for force majeure? Finally, we would like to mention, once again, the Piraeus Bank, in the so-called state, because it actually belonged to the Financial Stability Fund of foreigners and which the Greeks recently recaptured in the sense that their public debt will be increased, as will so many times in the past with the banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like for two minutes your tolerance, Mr President. In this regard, according to a report we will be tabling in the Minutes, there is a further reduction in its network of sixty-four shops, and a new programme of voluntary exit for its workers, redundancies and unemployment, that is to say, after a certain period of compensation, is being carried out, which, in our opinion, is not a good thing for Greece. It should be noted here that in Piraeus the good part of the Agricultural Bank had been transferred along with the network, while the evil was brought to the Financial Stability Fund, with the aim of clearing it. The most really outrageous part was the fragmentation of the Greek Sugar Industry in a good section with its fixed offices and offices, as well as in a bad share of its shares, which led to depreciation and divestment. Because, now, the Agricultural Bank was a specialised bank in the agricultural sector, its mismanagement was a great blow to our primary sector. No government has really been interested in our primary sector, however, when it had many shops in rural areas closed down. We have often expressed our objections to the reduction of the network, and we have recently been given a protest from the association of its staff, according to which even people with disabilities are being blackmailed in order to move to the remaining stores. If that's possible! It's embarrassing. This creates major problems for them, especially in the case of shops without such facilities for SMEs. Indicatively, a worker with 80% disability and four children is blackmailed in a shop where there is no toilet on the same floor, with the ultimate objective, of course, of leading to his resignation. This is done by a bank that we, the taxpayers, have financed with too much money. Is this social profile that the bank advertises in the pandemic with obviously our own money? Shouldn't the government be concerned about everything that's going on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor from New Democracy. Now, should we say that Lefkada is beautiful? That's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your kind words too. Every time you report to the beautiful Lefkada. We invite citizens to come to our island, with the most beautiful beaches in the world, not only in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u107	Our country is very beautiful, Mr. Kavvada. I wonder why there are broadcasts that advertise Thailand. I haven't figured that out yet, but, okay, I'm old. Maybe that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u108	Let me remind the Puerto Goat, the Engren, the Gialo, the Seat. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, taking over the country's rule two years ago, was called upon to manage a very complex situation in major projects. The political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure - and I have a direct knowledge and understanding of what I am saying - focused all its efforts on unblocking these major projects. Passions and failures of the past, mistaken and dead-end choices had led many of them to the bells. Today, we are talking about a project of great development importance, the construction of the motorway of central Greece, of E65. This is a project that will link Athens to western Macedonia, but also Italy through the port of Igoumenitsa and from there, to the western Balkans and to central and northern Europe. The northern part of this project was faced with a problem of funding, since its implementation had to be compatible with the law of the European Union. It was necessary for the Greek Government to negotiate with the Commission in order to obtain approval of its financing from the Recovery Fund. This large project has a total budget of EUR 442 million, is linked to the creation of a thousand new jobs and has a clear development mark, not only for western Macedonia but also for the whole country. Rapidly and safely mobility creates new prospects for tourism and general economic development for many regions. The amendment of the concession contract enacts the public's right to start construction work in the northern part of E65. Ladies and gentlemen, over these two years the Government has overrun the obstacles that had been set in the previous period and has succeeded in shaping the conditions for the realization of major projects, such as the E65 motorway we are discussing today, the BOAK in Crete to be financed by the Recovery Fund, the 4 line of the "ATITIMERO" which creates fifteen new stations in Attica and the Akti road axis, Ambros, which had evolved into a modern bridge in Arta. This work should have been completed at least four years ago. Why didn't that happen? Because it has fallen victim to failures and wrong choices from the previous government, which has chosen to resolve a new contractor - a broom, while the work has already been made and to deal with the problems could be done through supplementary contracts, as the Ministry had then answered in my question to the House. I pointed out then in the House and in the Ministry responsible that with the new contractor - a broom - the work would be stopped. Indeed, proceedings against the new competition immediately began. Thus, a project of major development importance for Lefkada, as well as the wider region of Western Greece, stopped. Since July 2019, in close cooperation with the Minister of Infrastructure Mr Kostas Karamanlis, the best solution for the implementation of the project was found. And I have to thank the Minister, who has been aware of the importance and scope of this project for the development of the region since the first moment. Ambrosia Street is funded as a bridge project of the NRP, which means that it will be completed by 2023, and of course part of it, bypassing Amphisia, will be provided in 2022. The projects are now in progress, along with the new roads of Vonitsas - Lefkada and Acidios - Agios Nikolaos, they upgrade the road network of the area and create the conditions for tourist and economic development, given the fact that the airport is being upgraded in Aktio. For Lefkada, however, the map of the new infrastructure, Mr. Minister, will be supplemented by the construction of the submarine link linking the island to Iato-Carnania. This is a work of great breath for Lefkada, particularly in view of the completion of the new road corridors. Our island is an extremely attractive tourist destination, not only for the beautiful and quality tourism services, but also because it has the qualification of land access. In the summer months, even this year when tourism is reduced, the tails formed both on land by cars and at sea by boat are huge. Imagine that in order to get to Lefkada from Patras it takes two hours. For the summer months, to enter the island from the floating bridge and cross the coastal front, a distance of four kilometres, it takes one and a half hours to two more. Minister, no boxing is intolerable not only for visitors, but much more for residents. In the last two years we have had constant contacts and meetings with the Ministry of Infrastructure and with the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, but also with the Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mr Karayannis, who is here, and with service factors. And I want to thank them publicly for their interest, but also for their support. This is a project that the Lefkadians have been waiting for decades and which the previous government and its local representatives in Lefkas have blocked. The Government of New Democracy and the Prime Minister himself embraced it, incorporated it into the major infrastructure projects for the next few years and work to launch it. Today, after many years of efforts, I am delighted that opinions from several ministries, such as the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Culture, after having examined and evaluated alternatives, prefer to resolve the underwater link. In the next few days, we will also have the final answer from the Environmental Licences Directorate and then the Ministry of Infrastructure will formulate the final proposal. The next step is to ensure funding and I want, Minister, and your help to move forward as quickly and effectively as possible. So, ladies and gentlemen, with determination and flexibility, with transparency and responsibility, we are planning the infrastructures and investments that are the foundation for the development of the country, but also for improving the quality of life, the daily lives of citizens. We are preparing the country for the future. We keep building and creating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr Cavada, and respect for the time that you do not put us in a difficult position. Now let's go to SYRIZA and Kozantissa, Mr. Kallipe Vetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill, despite unfounded and unfounded triumphant triumphs, is a confession of failure, failure of the government, general public infrastructure, but also, in particular, of amending the convention and the E65. Two years after the 19th elections, two years after the skyline announcements of a new development situation, the reality is falsifying the relevant Ministry. The rule is: delays, deferrals, cancellations, compensation and renegotiations that cost delays and costs for the Treasury. Especially for the northern axis of the E65 that we are debating today, the delay is incomprehensible. The government of SYRIZA had submitted a complete file already since January 19, but the approval came twenty months after the elections. Of course, delays, postponements, semi-finished and problematic projects are the second nature of the New Democracy. The same applies to this project, starting from 2007. With the new amendment that we are voting on today, the cost of the initial study is EUR 38 million. However, even so, with the great delay and the burden on the budget, we will vote for the amendment agreement, since it is, on the one hand, the implementation of our own dossier and, on the other hand, it will help to remove the geographical isolation of Western Macedonia's urban centres, especially from the capital. On this occasion, it is worth going on with an overview of what is happening in western Macedonia and, in particular, in the Kozani IP with infrastructure projects. To start with the violent demilitarisation which, while impoverished at the level of objectives, lags behind dramatically at the level of implementation. Guaranteed public funding with the most optimistic forecasts will reach 1.6 billion. The euro, while the remaining money comes from forecasts and estimates of possible private sector participation, leverage and so on. The only financial instruments that have been announced so far are the 325 million from the European Investment Bank. In addition, small programmes for the training of the unemployed and, in addition, incentives of 10% to 15% more than the rest of the country for private investment. Today, in the middle of 2021, unfortunately this is the tangible reality. All the rest are paper designs and announcements. At the same time, it has not been dealt with in the RDP, the Fair Development Goal Plan, the fact of the great unemployment that will result from violent frustration. From the twenty-four thousand to the forty thousand existing direct and indirect jobs are foreseen for up to eight thousand to eleven thousand jobs for the next day. At the same time, only two and a half thousand unemployed have been added to the region in the last few years and the count has unfortunately continued. At the same time, while one would expect public investment to be launched for the region in order to attract the alleged investments described in the RDP, nothing has been done to study and implement projects and infrastructures. It is worth wondering what roads, in which industrial areas, which transhipment stations, with which rail network will become the infrastructure and projects promised by Mr Mitsotakis and the relevant ministers. At the same time Greece ranks ninth in the distribution of the resources of the European Fair Transfer Fund, 755 million in particular in Europe of twenty-seven, despite the speed of violent depobilization. Land restoration and spatial planning have not even begun, while only 242 million will be made available from the Recovery and Resilience Fund to rehabilitate sixty thousand hectares of lignite land in the region of Western Macedonia, Minister. At the same time, there is no special spatial planning for RES, with the consequence of the unregulated location, the alteration of geomorphology and the nuisance of agri-foodstuffs and professional activities in the region. Entities, citizens and farmers see both their activities endangered and undermined the natural ecosystem and cultural footprint of the Regional Unit of Kozani. At the same time, there are still problems with settlement relocations, energy self-sufficiency, as well as with the district heating for which workers and local businesses are hitting the alarm, as the regime is indiscriminate with the impending closure of lignite plants and the connection to natural gas networks. At the same time, the pandemic, which struck our region with great vigour, left its prints on the EHS of the area: Lacks in the two hospitals, no new permanent intake, primary health falls short without the presence of doctors in hospitals. While the Prime Minister's statements on the many hospitals are ringing a bell both in Kozani and Ptolemaida. The situation is the same in the agricultural sector. The weather has led to the destruction of trees and grains but also by the government there are no reflexes at all. Finally, in education, the abolition of the six university departments impairs the region's prospects, while the minimum import base will lead to a rapid decline and closure of schools. The region in short is treated as a ‘ELDORANTO’ for PV and RES at the same time as the countermeasures are minimal. They do not address the consequences of defoliation and concern only one part of the local population. All the time the transition clause is supposed to apply on paper at least the area must have a preferential treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the Government and, in particular, the Minister for Infrastructure, who two years after the elections, starting with false assumptions, continues to oppose SYRIZA, to change course and start development projects in western Macedonia. The E65 had to have been as long ago as other vital projects. There is a lot to be done to remove the deadlock that I described to you a moment ago. A dead end created by the New Democracy Government itself. The future of the region with the current government, unfortunately, is predetermined. Very soon the country's progressive world will react and with the change of correlations both the country and western Macedonia will change page by closing the parenthesis of regression and stagnation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. It is a summer, let's go to both the Dodecanese and Mr Emmanuel Konsolas of New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Himaras has very systematically pointed out why this bill is extremely necessary to be voted on here today. And I imagine no one in the Chamber here disputes that it is also timely. Road safety, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter for our country. Even now we are far short of the European Union. You know that. And you know very well that at least the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Minister Karamanlis feels the need for the continuity of the state, which the previous government has not shown in the past. And I say this because the ratification of this agreement, a very important ratification for Greece, which we are debating today at the National Representation, is linked to the amendment of provisions of the concession contract for the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of a very important E65 road axis - as has been shown many times by the media - central Greece motorway. But it is not only about central Greece. It concerns Greece as a whole, but it also concerns Europe. It concerns the development of all areas around it, but also the development prospects of the country not only in terms of transport, but also in terms of the development of tourism in the wider region. It therefore concerns the construction of the northern part of the E65 for the Trikala for Calabaka, Ennatia, which was literally in the air due to the financing problem relating to the national strand. I do not have to point out what other colleagues have already pointed out. But the importance of this work - as I have told you - emerges from the need and from the reports of our citizens, our fellow citizens throughout the territory. In the short term and directly creates beyond a thousand new jobs, and creates strong growth prospects at local, supranational and national level. It will connect Athens to western Macedonia. But beyond it it also connects Greece and Italy through the port of Igoumenitsa. It connects road axes to the western Balkans, central and northern Europe. It is a major and important infrastructure project in particular in the region of western Macedonia. Illegalisation of the area - which is currently being discussed - a new development and productive model in the region requires, among other things, new infrastructure, such as the new motorway. We must return what the Minister has mentioned many times in multicentre development. And multicentre development, tourist development without roads cannot be done. And above all, it cannot be done by infrastructure projects such as those which we are discussing today. In order to unblock and launch the implementation of this very important project, Mr Karamanlis, Minister for Infrastructure, aware of the need for this prospect in time, has been pushed from the first moment in order to obtain approval from the Community funds, the Commission, for its funding. That is why they deserve congratulations. Because in a very short time a prospect is being established that takes decades for the country. It takes a serious effort and credibility on our part, ladies and gentlemen, to lead us to this positive development. I think that all my fellow Members from all sides of the national Parliament should be concerned about the delays that have taken place in previous decades, about the delay that citizens had in enjoying their security and their movement, caused by the delay in the implementation of major projects and which should have been completed for years. So all MPs in the National Representation and from the personal experience each has in their area may refer to similar problems and situations. Suffice it to think that this motorway was one of the five motorways auctioned under a concession agreement in 2007. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, it has been fourteen years since and today we have been launching the final implementation of this very important project. Similar problems have been created and by binding many governments - the construction of another major project, the Patras-Pyrgos motorway. On a high-risk road in which we pay a disastrous price to human lives, the construction of the project with multiple contractors and the cancellation of previous competitive procedures, i.e. the framework that had emerged from the previous government, led to a dead end to this project. I know that the Minister, too, has taken relevant initiatives, is making a great effort to reach agreement with the Commission to proceed with the implementation of this important project, a project linked to the development of a region which can be an important tourist destination, a development polo and a project linked to road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, all these reports on our part are not to reflect my party identity. On the contrary, they are aimed at triggering a party consensus rather than confronting and sharing responsibility from the past. After all, our responsibilities are attributed to the citizens at the same time as to each of us, but also to the parties themselves and to the government. I have moved on to these reports because I believe that our political system must see with greater maturity the implementation of major projects. It is for each of us to move forward in a context of rationalisation, pragmatism and transparency, because that is what the need for society is for. That is what the citizens need. Whatever government change comes to the country, it must not be linked to improvisations that lead to the delay and blockage of major projects. I am pleased that Mr Karamanlis and the Government of New Democracy have been on the wrong track for two years now. They also form the conditions and ensure funding for the implementation of new major infrastructure projects aimed at economic and social development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me for a moment. And I am referring to the construction of the Metro Line 4 announced a few days ago by the Government, a budget of EUR 1.2 billion, but also to the BOAK, the Northern Axis of Crete, which is a very important project. With the Minister, I had shared the anxiety with a large project in the Dodecanese and Rhodes since the previous years. We are aware and I am delighted that the Minister - and I thank him and I thank him publicly - is carrying out a very large project - has understood the need for this very large project - to one of the largest world tourist destinations in Rhodes. And I am referring to the new road linking the city of Rhodes to the airport, an axis that is so necessary since Rhodes to the airport is one of the most important roads, since road safety is a prerequisite for the prospect of development. This road has unfortunately sacrificed many of our fellow citizens to the altar of accidents. And I am pleased that the ESDP Infrastructure and Transport programme will carry out this project of EUR 40 million. Minister, with the complete study of the sub-section from the candidian-airport level of about seven kilometres [7 km], I believe that you can proceed with the tendering of this section in order to start the implementation of this project and to shorten the time-scales for its completion. It is a great project that changes the road map in Rhodes and the image of the island and upgrades a top tourist destination. It relieves the city from the coastal road, which is a long road and there is traffic congestion, especially, and creates new prospects. I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are moving ahead of the country through the implementation of these major projects. And I think we should bend over this report, since we want to see the country after - COVID - a time of rapid growth as it is worthy of our fellow citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u113	Be well. Thank you, Mr. Consola. We remain in New Democracy and go to Mr. Constantine Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one in theory can object to major projects. No normal party representing citizens in Parliament could vote against flagrant initiatives such as the completion of such a major infrastructure project for the future of our country. Because in this future we are led by the new axis of the motorway of central Greece, which is best known to us in the Thessalonians as E65, a work of breath initiated by the New Democracy in 2007 in the form of a concession contract just before the 2008 global crisis broke out, a crisis that led our country to the well-known financial deadlock and to the super-10-year freezing of many public investments. Things today are changing for the better. Two years after the election of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the country's fate to lead the great battle for the upgrading, Greece is changing. A part of this laborious effort is the completion of those large projects that make large areas of our country from economic isolation. Minister, I am personally proud that just a year ago, on 13-7-2020, with my question to your Ministry, I was asking the issues that concerned the society of Thessaly in relation to the progress of the northern part of the E65. Today, following a systematic work by the political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the parliament ratifys the agreement to build the Trikala section - Egnatia on the motorway of central Greece, a project of 490m euros involving the association of two other main road corridors, Egnatia Road and PATHE through the northern branch of E65, which will connect the central to northern and western Greece. It is precisely these links that make this project crucial for the integration of Thessaly into the trans-European transport networks, bringing it closer not only to the central European countries, but also through the port of Igoumenitsa closer to the whole of Western Europe. Therefore, it is a strategic infrastructure in which Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself believed and promoted through a series of contacts with the leadership of the European Commission. The result of this eighteen-month systematic effort was the inclusion of the motorway in the financing of the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which will ultimately cover the costs of its construction. Thus, within less than three years, over seventy kilometers of modern highway, two plus two lanes, with emergency lanes, four tunnels and thirty one bridges, with a total of seven new nodes including the completion of this Trikala and a new secondary road network of service and vertical axes for direct access to all neighbouring areas in the E65. However, the most important, perhaps benefit from this state-of-the-art highway, is the drastic reduction in Greece's time distance from the western Balkans, while, at the same time, increasing the level of road safety So we will achieve the faster and easier transport of goods and people from Thessaly to the rest of Europe, bringing Magnesia closer to the European markets, connecting Volos to Igoumenitsa, as the Prime Minister said. Here I think it is the great bet on Magnesia and Thessaly in general, on the diversification of the local economy and on the development of new outward activities that will give Thessalonikin businesses new competitive advantages. Such an opportunity is also the road link between Magnesia and E65 with other geographical units in Greece and Europe in general. However, it is not enough alone. We should see the problem of local development as a whole within the broader financing framework of both the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF 2021-2027. Most importantly, however, we should look at the possibilities offered by E65 as part of an integrated project, which will also include direct aid for attracting private investment, but also support services such as combined transport, logistics and multimodal transit, services that will highlight Magnesia as a hub of internal and external trade, as well as an area that combines modern international transport - air, sea and road - with an interconnected rail network, capable of transporting products and people and quickly and economically. In particular for freight transport a crucial role will be played by the creation of a logistics centre, for which there is already planning in Magnesia, which, of course, remains to be implemented. The SYRIZA colleague, who, on the occasion of the Recovery Fund, brought back the question of strengthening the role of existing business parks and industrial areas in the supply chain, while building new freight centres in Magnesia, is right. But in good intentions it is good to add a little self-critic, because, unfortunately, SYRIZA in the five years of his administration instead of projects preferred the proclamations. I would remind the Government of Tsipras that the Magnesia Prefecture not only had a multitude of representation in Parliament, but also two Deputy Ministers in the government and, indeed, in the critical areas of economics and transport that we are discussing today. What SYRIZANELs did then, has been recorded in history. And they certainly weren't freight centres in Magnesia, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, the New Democracy has come to put an end to the words without opposition, hollow promises, deceitful ones and only the plans left on paper. With concrete works, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis comes to break the vicious cycle of SYRIZA's inefficiency and overcome the consequences of the economic and health crisis. As this bill shows, this is only done with a programme, hard work and rapid use of European funds. Greece is lucky to have a government with knowledge, competence and so much needed - bad lies - past service, previous professional experience that allows ministers to be quick and effective. Good luck has brought the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the country at the very time our country is called upon to manage the EUR 72 billion of the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF. Just this serious, responsible governance is a guarantee that Greece of projects has started and will continue to work to change our future, but above all the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too, Mr. Maraveya. Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking today about the E65 motorway, a project that is important with prospects, but also particular pathogens, a project whose construction contract was signed in 2007 and for which the New Democracy Government bears enormous responsibility for both the delays and the break-up in three sections. Following the well-known revolts and the phenomenality that characterized the older governments, the SYRIZA government came to unblock this project at last and to complete an important part of it so far. Today the New Democracy Government comes with two years' delay and an unnecessarily 'capacitated' of 38 million to celebrate that it finally unlocked the project. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, these phenomena and pathogens were the usual practice followed by the governments of the New Democracy in implementing works with dependency, complexity and many delays, but also by the Greek people to always pay for the damage. Corresponding practices have faced the completion of the vertical axis of Egnatia in Evros, a necessary project for road safety and development in our region, but above all for transport safety, a project that has taken many decades to carry out and cost a great deal of money, but unfortunately it has also cost dozens of human lives. The SYRIZA government also had to come in and unlock in very short time and complete the most dangerous part of the project. The New Democracy's contribution, of course, was to put tolls directly when the New Democracy officials lay down on the road in order to react to to tolls in previous years. But today, silence. I wonder how much hypocrisy this party fits. Ladies and gentlemen, for two years with the sole responsibility of the Mitsotakis Government, important development projects have been cancelled or frozen throughout the country. The Government shows that it is moving without a development compass, without a design or holistic approach in which infrastructure will also be integrated as a background for development. Make trade of hope without real hope in society. In the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, the New Democracy not only froze the planned work of the Egnatia railway and the C to C that would link rail, road system and five ports and neighbouring countries, a project launched by the SYRIZA government and transnational agreements, but has led Thrace to railway blockade for two years, without taking any initiative. We ask ourselves: what development do you talk about in Thrace when even the things that have already been in operation in previous years are inacting? Running works at the port of Alexandroupolis have been frozen. Go ahead in selling, privatising the port against the interests and development of local society, while not strengthening the commercial role of the port. Even the great work of subsidizing drilling in the Red Sea is at risk of being endowed with the funding provided by the previous government. The specific infrastructure programme for Evros of EUR 26.3 million approved by the previous government, including the implementation of thirty-six critical, necessary projects for the region, roadworks, flooding, irrigation projects and many others has been frozen today, with the New Democracy Government completely excluded from the implementation of these necessary projects. In the meantime, you have frozen and the application of incentives for businesses in remote areas, such as the grant of transport operating costs, which was also designed by the SYRIZA Government. What help, what support, what incentives do you give local businesses in remote areas? Ladies and gentlemen, even the important gas network development project in the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace has too many delays and too many obstacles. It is going too late, most of the issues had come to an end from the previous government. Of course, it makes no special impression that Prime Minister Mitsotakis has speeded up a few days ago in Xanthi to cut ribbons and to settle another SYRIZA project. We have told you many times that cooperation requires modesty. I could, ladies and gentlemen, mention dozens of examples and figures from both Evros and from the whole country that highlight the distorting anti-development, counterproductive, anti-social nature of the government's choices, your indifference and inability, and at the level of major infrastructure projects, but also at the level of policies that support and give perspective to our local societies. Of course, it is also worrying how you manage the proposal for the Recovery Fund. You do not prioritise the dissemination of the benefits of the projects of funds throughout society, of small and medium-sized local enterprises, but the direction of funding to a few large companies for projects that you are still secretly holding from the Greek society and you have not even entered a consultation procedure in order to make use of useful proposals. Mr. Minister is missing, but you'll be transferring them, please. Minister, in my area in particular over the past one and a half years, we have experienced an unprecedented deterioration, deforestation of services, bank shops closing from all regions, university departments that are shrinking, while projects launched and would leave a strong developmental and environmental footprint in the region, such as the restoration of the old Circe mines, a project of 5.5 million euros, by decision of the New Democracy Government. Unfortunately, the New Democracy creates every day and a new wound in Evros, Thrace and society as a whole. If we add to all of this the enormous wounds that the pandemic leaves, especially the way the New Democracy Government has chosen to manage the exceptional circumstances, ignoring the real needs of society, without any real support for the world, then we can understand the marginal situation and the deadlocks that both businesses and all citizens are facing today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. Our country, however, needs to be directly involved in the implementation of a planned holistic development plan, which will include major infrastructure projects, combined transport, development policies and expansion and support for services and local communities. Bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that you are interested in the country's armouring, the armouring of local societies, the armouring of borders, when the services are constantly closed and the activity is shrinking in these areas. With your policies you are unfortunately leading to desertification in particular, with no prospects of developing or improving the living conditions of the citizens. In fact, recently, the Prime Minister informed us that regional hospitals will be closed in the middle of a pandemic. The applause's fascinated. We have forgotten the applause and cheerfulness. Now we're going to close critical regional nursing institutes. The only thing that is of interest to the Government of New Democracy is the fascist, service of interest, communication. In addition to the fictitious picture cultivated, however, the reality experienced by Greek citizens is unfortunately tragic. The lies of Mr Mitsotakis for growth, well-paid jobs, security and modernisation have been revealed and all promises have been disproved. And unfortunately we experience every day the tragic consequences of your undoubted policy, your inability, your indifference, authoritarianism. You have chosen in this way to make politics. That is why immediate change is required. There is a need for a progressive government in the country, a government working for the benefit of society, a government which does not care for the citizens, nor for the benefits of society, nor for the development of the region and local communities. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. You should know that the Minister asked me for a minute, two minutes because he has to make a phone call and I allowed him to do so. Mr Ioannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Loverdo, you heard the Minister had to make a call. I don't think you mind absence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u118	We're not gonna put him away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u119	Not even a fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u120	We appreciate him for his work and when he can come. Ladies and gentlemen, today is Tuesday and 13 July. In our popular tradition it is considered a juicy day, because Tuesday the City fell and thirteen were participants in the Secret Dinner from which Judas left to betray Jesus. In our modern life, however, there are no rousing days, because our luck is made on our own, our luck is made by Greece with the effort of all of us, or at least that is what we are seeking. The Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis also proves by the bill he has tabled today and is voted on by this House in its intention to change the form of our society, to change the form of our country in the midst of pandemic, with strong, serious and important reforms, such as the expansion and construction of the rest of the E65 which, thanks to the funding and the European Union, will become a reality, thanks to the Recovery Fund. You know, when this bill came after an agreement, which had been delayed and made possible recently, I thought about what disaster our country would have suffered if we had accepted some people's requests a few years ago and left the European Union and returned to the drachma, what disaster would have occurred in the country. No, E65 wouldn't, we wouldn't have eaten in this country. Now thanks to the European Union, and thanks mainly to the efforts made by the New Democracy party, Greece is in the European Union, it has a programme for the rapid development of the economy after the pandemic, thanks to the negotiations that both the Prime Minister and the members of the government and the New Democracy have made. We live historical moments and make them even more important to our country thanks to our efforts because, as I said, there are no jinx days, there are jinxes that don't want our country's advancement. We don't belong to them. The New Democracy is the basis for supporting the effort to re-establish and develop the country after a decade in fact very difficult and disastrous in the economy and after a catastrophic pandemic. The pandemic of course is not over, and we must all strive to deal with this phenomenon so that tomorrow, thanks to the Recovery Fund and to the project, the holistic plan - particularly in Anti-Population - 'Greece 2.0' can be at the forefront of the changes to be made to that country. The truth is that we have to face the dangers of pandemic. Things are difficult and are still difficult, and I am therefore pleased that, at least in the case of vaccinations - with some asterisks - the opposition is at present still in favour of vaccinations. That's good. It would be even more positive if we were to bear in mind that the treatment of pandemic is not for opposition. The treatment of pandemic is the major in order for the country to be able to stand on its feet, like every country in humanity, which is currently facing the same huge problem. From there on, we have a lot to say, we have a lot to disagree and agree, although I do not intend to agree on much, but, anyway, we are here even to accept your views if they are reasonable and can actually be implemented. We're not ideological. We do not think that opposition cannot make proposals. Maybe if they're reasonable and right, we'll take them. I see, however, from the standpoint of anti-population a misery. I have already heard Mrs Gara - and she is very sympathetic to me - saying that everything is going wrong with this government, that it is being destroyed, that the country is falling apart, that the hospitals are closing down, that there will be no beds for the sick, and that there will be some excesses that do not apply. No hospitals that are useful and necessary to protect patients will be closed. Only those services that are not necessary will be closed. It will not close anything that is necessary for the country. The public health we protect in every possible way will continue to be protected. Public health is the project of this government and Mr.Mitsotakis proved it all these twenty months that the pandemic lasts. And that's what we're going to do. We respect the public health system. You have a perception that we do not want the public health system. That's not true. And we want there to be projects, such as the motorway that is done with funding from the public funds, such as the Recovery Fund. We are not ideological when it comes to the role of the public. We want the public to exist, but we do not want it as an entrepreneur. This is the big difference between you and us. We want the business to be carried out by individuals, and this huge ideological difference is, I think, the one that triggers and too many tensions and disagreements between us. We'll solve it along the way. Now what is important - and I insist - is dealing with pandemic, above all getting out of this adventure healthy and moving forward. And because I hear the request for early elections - my dear friend Mr Giannoulis put it the other day, he put it directly yesterday and Mr Tsipras - I can assure you that the election time will be here. In two years the election time will come and then the Greek people will judge you and the Government of New Democracy and will once again highlight the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis winner because it brings about the great change that the country needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u121	We are also grateful to Mr Loverdos and to him for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘(a) Incorporation into national legislation of the provisions of Directives (EU) 2017/2455, (EU) 2019/1995 and (EU) 2018/1910 in respect of obligations arising from value added tax for the supply of services and the sale of goods remotely and in relation to arrangements (b) Amendments to Law 4649/2019 “Support programme for credit institutions (A’206) on the basis of C (2021) 2545/09.04.2021 2021/N) of the European Commission's approval decision to extend the programme ‘IRAKELS’. (c) "Provisions on the adjustment of debts and the provision of a second chance" - Amendments to the Statute of the Court of Justice 4738/2020 and other provisions’. Mr. George Kotsos is now called in Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a Cardiciotis, I feel unlimited satisfaction and pride that at last a dream of years for western Thessaly takes flesh and bone. Because, you know, the debate on the E65 started about in the mid-90s, when there were three footages of PATHE in relation to the Malian Gulf. The first was the submarine link, if you remember. The second was to create the Malian petal, the engraving that exists today. And there was a third shot that involved a tunnel in Domokos and PATTH would come closer to the western Thessaly, closer to Karditsa, near the Trikala, closer to Larissa, although it then passes through Larissa. But then the second solution, the Malian Petal, was chosen, and there should be a road that would get west Thessaly out of road isolation. The first reference to this axis was made by Laliotis in 1994, when there had been very great flooding at the time in Karditsa, something similar to 'Janus' now. Only now we have had a direct and effective response to the phenomenon, and then we have been too late. So the reference was made by the then Minister of Education as a compensation for Western Thessaly, in order to bring Western Thessaly closer to Athens, to get out of road isolation, to come closer to northern Greece. Of course, there was a lot of water going on in the grove, and the New Democracy Government started building this project in 2007, which will get out of isolation and Trikala and Karditsa, but also at the same time give development in these areas. Here we must note that E65 is a European axis of three thousand eight hundred kilometres overall that starts from Malmo, Sweden, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia, Kosovo, Greece and reaches Chania and part of this axis is of course the E65 we are discussing today, which starts from Scarfia in Lamia and ends in Ennaia. My satisfaction is even greater because as a man of self-government for many years, in cooperation with the authors of Western Thessaly and Epirus, we fought to find a solution for the northern part. For as far as the northern part is concerned today - with great energies Mr Himaras gave the financial and technical elements of the project in detail, and I think it will be an exaggeration and a surplus to refer to them again - the two problems which existed and were the following: firstly, to choose the definition. 'Cause you'll remember that in the beginning the first engraving was leading to the Virgin Mary. And the second, even greater problem, was to find the resources. Because yes there was the design, yes there was the vision, yes there was the mood, but there was no financial instrument. And I remember attributes as president of the Regional Association of Municipalities of Thessaly that we had organized a very large event in Trikala in 2018, involving actors from Epirus, involving institutions from western Macedonia, from Central Greece, on the one hand, to finalise the northern part, but also to secure the possibility of financing the project, which was then the most likely source of funding for the European Investment Bank. And we reach 2021, which thanks to faith, determination, but also to the organization of our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as well as the leadership of the Ministry of Transport now this dream, this prospect becomes an act and reality, to finally complete the E65 road that will really get out of the isolation of Western Thessaly and give it the potential for further development. That is why I would like to thank you very much, Minister, and you and the Secretary-General, not only for this, but also for the great problem that was created in Cardiff with "January" you have really demonstrated effectiveness, speed, but also at the same time understanding of the very big problem facing our county. Financing and business, financing and homes, and now the large EUR 150 million financing programme is under way, which will respond to the problems of the infrastructure that have been created there. You know, in western Thessaly there was always the Larissa - Volos double that created an agony in western Thessaly, in how Western Thessaly could grow and have a better perspective. Because Volos had the port, it was an industrial area. Larissa was a very heavy spot for Thessaly. Trikala and Karditsa felt the weight of road isolation, the isolation that is now coming from the E65 to lift and give new prospects to our region, prospects of development, prospects of productive, prospects of tourism. Because the rapid advent of Athens to Karditsa and Trikala will give new tourist development to Plastira Lake and Meteora, it will give new opportunities to the production model, will enable us by facilitating transport to evolve agricultural production by labour-hand processing and standardisation, and so that the industrial area of Karditsa, which in fact remains unexploited, is finally going to develop, because the companies were actually thinking about how to transport their products from the moment that there was a difficult axis of Domos, mainly. Because, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who have been through Domokos in winter understand very well what it means mainly to our security and the speed of E65. Here I would like to make two - three additional points, Minister, particularly for Cardinals. An issue is the electricity flow of the Kalambakas - Paleokrasalos railway that has been integrated and we expect it to be launched, but also to note the abolition of the direct route that has been advanced by the "TRAINOSE", Kalambakas - Athens, which creates a major problem and I would ask you to see very carefully, so that this injustice can be lifted. Because we need the railroad in western Thessaly. Of course, I note that the Karditsa and Larissa association are moving fast, with a small final piece in Sikyona that has been financed and implemented and that Carditsa is back to the district's headquarters on better terms, to mention the perspective of the small airport of Myrina built by local government and could act as a transitory, as well as the Plastira Lake Waterway, which will also provide great tourist development in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, E65, as previous speakers have said, unites three regions: Central Greece, Thessaly, western Macedonia. It is an opportunity to join us in this House too, to vote for it all together because it is really a great project that will give breath not only in central Greece, but in our country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. And from Karditsa we go to Kavala, to Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman made an intervention and made a point to the Bureau, that Members of Parliament who have been put on the side of SYRIZA should not refer to the shocking revelations about the false statement 'where you are' by the Prime Minister of the country over the last four years. And he even tried to turn the situation around by saying New Democracy's famous fairy tale in its official announcement that SYRIZA attacked the Prime Minister's wife. Because obviously neither did he read the newspaper, which denounces what he denounces or did not find it in the stands, because I, too, had a hard time finding it, I have here a newspaper on that day, I can give it to him when he comes. But I ask him: has Mr. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Bukouros, not been bothered by the sensational revelations about the false statements 'from where you stand' by the Prime Minister? Was it not at all disturbed by the fact that, according to the report, he has deliberately been hiding the existence of a foreign property company of his wife? Has it not been bothered that in 2020 this foreign company was transferred to a company of Greek Prime Minister's wife, which was created two days ago apparently just to make this transfer? Do you not mind, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the company of the Prime Minister's wife even when she was diagnosed - after they have been regained it is the first lady of the state - she bought the house of Voltaire while she had only 10,000 shares and received a 900,000 euro loan and she also paid a cash of 750,000 euros? What practices are these? These practices follow fraudulent businessmen. Do you not mind that the Prime Minister, following these shocking revelations and complaints from this newspaper, 'DOCUMENTO' and Mr Vaxebane, did not feel the need to come here and answer today clearly that the complaints are not valid and that he will make all the legal means and address justice to this blatant slander of his or her wife either? Didn't they hurt at all? Tsipras, the Chief of Officer Opposition, accused him falsely of the alleged villa in Sounio. What's your leader doing? Nothing has done. There's not even one announcement he made. Is it true, then, that complaints are true? Because here I see that there are also official documents that have been made public. Don't you mind? For the last two years I have been 'from a point of view', I fear that there is no shortage of a small invoice worth 10 euros from my statement. I'm afraid of the consequences. And she hides a whole company and doesn't bother any of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, you won't have time for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u126	I'm sorry, but I'm responding to Mr. Bukkoro. Or will you respond to this in the heartfelt argument you have put forward on the New Democracy loans that 'the people knew them and still voted for us'? Did that people know? And what further, does it not bother you that the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis have not asked for an apologies to the Greek people for falling out of their predictions of 30% in vaccination? You don't mind that we failed to convince people to be vaccinated despite the fact that you gave millions to the media and now you're getting to the point where you blackmail citizens and divide them, denying them freedom? And I say that I was vaccinated with Astra Zeneca's vaccine because then it was my only choice and after a few days, you went out and said that the vaccine was forbidden for under sixty, it's not recommended. On matters with Mr Chardalia and Mr Chrysochide, on the fact that you did not give an answer if, as our Parliamentary representative complained, the police officer who held the force and issued the seventeen-year-old girl is a member of the New Democracy, I did not expect the Minister to reply. The word has not been singing about what they have recently monopolised the news. He came here and with pompous cosmopolitans he hid by reading the documentation that all the Members of Parliament have read and the rapporteur also.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u128	So to come to work, to E65 This work came to the House on SYRIZA in 2018. It started in 2019 with the deposit to the European Commission. Our parliamentary representative and former Minister told you in detail. And you did two years to get your approval and seven months to bring it to the House. Of course I did not hear any answer to the critical questions raised by our parliamentary representative and our rapporteur. Will the project be delivered on 31-12-2021, as foreseen in the contract, or changed it, and will you deliver only four miles? Because your last speaker who spoke to you was asking about the dangerous part, asked you about Domokos. Answer your own Member. Will the entire project be delivered by 31-12-2021? What have you done with the expropriations in the north, you've moved on? Our parliamentary representative has also asked you. In Kavala and in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace you have frozen all the great works that SYRIZA started. For the first time on SYRIZA a process of resolving the chronic problem of Philippine exchanges began. The study started, but unknown where it ended. The project's frozen. The design for the rail link between Philip II and the Archites as well. On SYRIZA, the connection of three large ports of northern Greece with the Black Sea ports was designed, Mr. Minister, by the way, and many other projects. Greece, as all the parliamentarians of the province know, in particular, who see exactly what is happening and have a real picture, is not only construction site, and it will soon appear your inefficiency in the field of large infrastructures, as is seen in all other sectors. The Greek people will then ask you for the account for every euro you spend on projects that are never implemented and of course, as you do and as you plan them, will never be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Mrs Brysidou has the floor from New Democracy. I shall then give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on the bill we are debating today in this House, I would like to make a reference to the country's agonizing effort to tackle pandemics, to protect citizens, to protect health and human life, and to ensure the economy. We all know that after a long period of closed stores businessmen and professionals give a big fight. Tourism, which is a source of revenue for the country, gives its own struggle. In this effort we must be assembled because we all know what the way to protection is and there we must concentrate and give the right messages. Because discussions on other issues disorientate the citizen and do not favour the positive result. Vaccination is the protection of the country and that is where we must move. Politic sites may bring political benefits, but no political benefit can be out of the Greeks' interest. I would now like to address the very important and important issue that we have here today, in Parliament, the ratification of the agreement on the work of study, construction, financing and operation of the E65 motorway. It is a budget project of 442 million, seventy kilometers starting from Trikala - Kalambakas to Egnatia by connecting the Patras motorway through the Grevenas - Thessaloniki and Nea Egnatia. It is a part of a whole road linking Eastern Greece and Western Greece, a road that helps overcome isolation in many areas, a road that will bring prospects and development. It started a long time ago and the thinking and the studies, and we actually have a start in 2007. But the economic crisis freezes in 2011 because there was no possibility of the same participation from national resources and the rebooting takes place in 2013 on New Democracy and the Xyniada - Trikala track begins to be completed in 2017. And in 2018 we have the beginning of another piece of Xyniada - Lamia that is expected to be completed in 2022. However, a serious part, in my view, the most complex and necessary, could not be launched due to a lack of funding. The Government of New Democracy, the Prime Minister, the entire government, but especially the Ministry of Transport, gave a great fight with arguments and with a structured effort and managed to secure funding from the Recovery Fund. Someone might think it was an effort that has worked, it was a wretch. Because if it were easy, it would have been achieved in previous years. And it is important not only because this project starts and we will close a whole project and we will see the results, but because it favours regions that need it, such as western Macedonia, which is not surrounded by the sea, which is difficult to access. In particular now, when the regional units of Kozani and Florina are going through the path of energy transition, they need business, investment. The investor cannot go easily in one area if access by road and other means is not easy. Therefore, this project will contribute in particular to development and will help the region not only in business, but also in the agricultural sector and in the tourism sector. Because, as I said before, without easy transition and without easy movement of goods and citizens, we cannot have the result that we are waiting for. And given that the Ministry is working and bringing results, and given that many and important projects have been launched, I think we can make suggestions because they will be heard and implemented. I would therefore like to say that this very important project can follow other projects that are important to our region. On motorways such as Kozanis-Larisa, the road Florina-Ptolemais, as well as on the railway which has its importance and has played a decisive role in the development of many regions because cheap and easy goods can be transported but also citizens. I would therefore like to refer to the suggestion from our region and to the attempt to reopen the Ptolemais - Kozani rail line, and of course I take the opportunity to say that Egnatia is also a good proposal to link Kalambaka - Kozani - Veroia. These thoughts can enter the table, go ahead with the studies and be examined in future time. I also want to refer to the airport in Kosani where it serves and will serve at this time when business activities are coming and starting in our region. It is necessary to modernise facilities and equipment and we think that it will be very easy to make it attractive and to help the region. The New Democracy over the past two years has shown itself to be able to conduct studies, tenders, project implementation, and to complete projects and, above all, to ensure funding. That is not a position which is being taken, because we want to say some good words, because it really doesn't matter. We're not just talking to each other here. We are being watched by the entire Greek people, who want problems to be solved, who wants to be facilitated, who wants to feel secure, who wants to make progress. So the New Democracy, with budgets, with project names and completion of projects, has proved to have done many projects, with large budgets, within a short period of time. With this in mind it is successful and we encourage the Ministry of Transport, which has today brought this important bill, to continue in this direction because the projects that are being created bring growth to place and progress and, of course, hope and perspective to Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos is called at Vima and Mr Constantinidis is prepared and then proceed with the talks through a Webex connection.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Your Honor. Another bill jointly passed by New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK. Another project which, instead of satisfying the people's needs, will further merchandise them, creating additional problems in the populace. And yet this anti-grass bill is passed jointly by New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK, which confirms the strategic conclusion. All that is necessary for capital and business groups supports what is necessary for the people, we refer to the bells. This is what opposition parties did when they were in the governments and SYRIZA and also PASOK. And the big question arises, Minister: Infrastructure projects for whom? For the purposes of capitalist development or for satisfying people's needs? And don't tell me here that you suddenly found the magic link that can connect and satisfy both questions at the same time, namely infrastructure projects that meet both popular needs and capitalist development, because you will lie again. You can't do that. Will anyone say what the JRC supports is an exaggeration? We'll see. And let us just ask ourselves one more question: How are you, really, answering all the parties, on the question that the Greek bells have been brought to the attention of projects necessary and necessary to protect human life and the environment? Why do decades not even plan, the country's integrated earthquake shield? Is Greece not an earthquake area? Haven't we mourned the dead? Why? Do you have anything to answer to? It is not an eligible project from the European Union. We will then analyse what it means to be eligible. Why is it that decades have not gone through the works of integrated anti-military protection, and simply doing something after a feast that creates even greater flooding phenomena? Aren't we mourning the dead of floods every year? Have they been all over the past decades, or is it now planning an integrated anti-nuclear protection project? Fires every day. Last weekend, sixty fires, with disasters and the environment in forest volumes and crop and livestock, but also in other assets, except for the dead we have also grieved in the past. Isn't that true, these big infrastructure projects? Aren't these flagship infrastructure projects, as one speaker pointed out earlier? What's this? Secondary projects? Aren't they life plays, anyway? Of course, one can well claim that the necessary resources are not available. Let us accept that there are no necessary resources to do with one of the infrastructure projects. But who determines the priorities, Minister? Who determines that these works should be done first and then the rest? Since human needs, the needs of the people, the protection and safeguarding of human life, which is the first need, do not define them? The answer is clear. These works are defined by the needs and priorities of the monopolies, the ruling class. The needs of capitalist development. Thus, most of the funding from European programmes, from public investment programmes, goes to these necessary infrastructure projects and will go over time to roads, ports, energy networks and other networks to transform our country into a transit centre, but also to try to unify the Euro-Union market with single telecommunications networks, the so-called 'inter-European networks'. And this is the first cut. The eligibility of the projects which the European Union is saying is too. If these projects are not linked to the European Union's plans for a single European market and to the facilitation of its multinationals for the transport of goods as transit, they are not financed or financed with the drop-off partitioning and without efficiency. And the second cut, which is the most inhumane, is the 'cross bed' of the cost-benefit logic which the European Union has. How much will a project cost and how much will it benefit? Only with economic sizes, Minister. Human life and blood tax do not count in this cost-benefit account. Only the economic sizes count, and we say that, because that's exactly the way it happened. The review of the Olympian Road Convention stopped in Patras because the transport project Patras - Pyrgos is very small and was neither serviceable nor integrated into trans-European networks to reach the commercial port of Patras. And this stopped the rest of the work that had no technical difficulty. In fact, in the discussions with the European Commission, after the Patras to Tower motorway, it entered the debate and, if there will be a lane, between the two currents because it is a small load of traffic - it says - this work. So it seems clear what projects are taking priority, and this logic, that is, cost-benefit logic, how much the business group that will manage this project leads to absurdity and waste. Really, isn't the Riu-Antirio bridge irrational? Wasn't it a huge irrationality? Very nice work, very big work, thank you very much. When was it completed? In 2004. And what did he mean by this very great expensive work that he pays every day in expensive tolls for the Greek people? He swore two carniola streets for thirteen years, Patras - Corinth and the Patras to the Yannina. Two roads of carnival with dozens of people dead each year for thirteen years, and even in the name of this cost - the rail link did not happen at the same time on the bridge, because there is no rail network. What are we going to put together? It's like it's a project that's done every ten years. Why? Because, of course, the roads are the roads, the trans-European and rail trans-European corridors. And that is why the rail network does not develop in areas where trans-European networks are not incorporated. The network of the Peloponnese has essentially been abolished and does not seem to be reopening in the immediate horizon of the next decade. Not even planning. Why? Because there are also the private roads that people have to pay to them and do their jobs every day. How will construction companies win? Allow me, Minister, to see two - three examples from the recent issue, not the ones with the'subjects' and the rest that you throw the ball on the platform, but real examples. I went to Kefalonia last three days. In 2014 it became the big earthquake. Since then there have been a number of flagship works which have not gone ahead. Labour residences since 2014 remain non-functional. They are not used and the case of the reconstruction or demolition of these dwellings has not yet come to light. Second question: Road axes. The axis of Critonus that has cut Bailey off the rest of the island and have to make a full circle for them to be released. The "Jane" also came to throw the bridge to the Winter. And what did you do about this bridge? Instead of planning a new bridge, you found a solution of emblem. A military-type Bailey bridge. Are you really ensuring the stability of this bridge that's been a hundred years old? Are you sure there will be no problems? Of course, large trucks over forty tons cannot pass through there. Or other issues, such as the Manzavinate Hospital in Argostoli since 2014 due to an earthquake that has suffered serious damage and even though there is money, the Ministry refuses to declare the contractor required by the technical services to be lowered. Why do you deny it for so many years that the construction of the Manzavidale Hospital in Lexiri will proceed? Or the Jacuzzi Library, schools in Lixori where children still live in containers after eight years, so that we do not go to earthquakes and disasters from "Janus", when technical services in the regions themselves appreciated the necessary infrastructure to repair damage and shield the island at 115 million euros. What about the final contract? How long have you signed, Minister, for three-year-old projects? Twelve million euros. So great your interest in necessary projects to protect human life. From 115 million in demand from the technical services in the region, you have only given 12 million and that one over three months. Truly, will the Floodworks of St. Euphemia be done, or will be flooded every year? The water? Kefalonia has water and is lost at sea. Why don't you make small dams that will keep the water and allow the island to be watered and irrigated? And you're moving on to solutions - where, in Kefalonia? - to create desalination plants with expensive water and energy plants not of good quality? Or for the energy networks. From the 'January' it was a characteristic. The only power networks that were able to withstand were the ones that connected the RES, the wind turbines. The networks that served the people's needs collapsed all and left Kefalonia without power and are not restored to modern networks. Or a more overall problem when in 2021 there are stan­dards everywhere in Greece that do not have electricity. Of course, the previous colleague - a spokesman of the New Democracy, the investor wanted roads to invest. The farmer, really, doesn't he want rural roads? That's great! Don't you want PPC's network so he can get power in his stain? But this is not an investment, because the investment according to capitalist data is to destroy the farmer and make large capitalist livestock units. That's it. That is why we say that you are serving a development and with infrastructure which is hostile to the needs of the production process in our country, to the needs of the people, to the needs of the workers. So the design and priority you are doing is the ones that serve the great business interests. A second question is: Even these projects, the roads, are necessary. E65, which we are talking about, is a necessary project. No one disputes that. But, at the same time, it is an expensive work. The construction of these road corridors has been paid very expensively by the Greek people and they will pay for years and decades - extremely expensive and the maintenance of this work through the tolls. And, indeed, the contracts you have signed with New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA with these concessionaires are so letonous that if they do not have the necessary revenues, based on the mathematical formula from the toll, the state will cover the difference. In fact, we are not only talking about pandemic conditions, but also about normality. Such road axes, which take money every year, are known. And of course you'll relieve them of ministerial decisions when there's a snowfall from taking cleaning measures and the road stays open and you close the roads with ministerial decisions. So the projects you are shaping, the infrastructure projects you are doing, such as the E65, are, of course, essential projects for the region there. But really, what about the rest of the projects that our rapporteur has said about the region there, the flooding? The flooding of the 'January' is a very recent example. Will they be back in three months of other phenomena? Other projects serving the needs of the people, workers and farmers? Where are these projects? From this point of view - I shall end, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance - we say very clearly that all these projects that you are shaping are being developed which is hostile to the people, to the workers, precisely because the funds from the Recovery Fund are accompanied by the pan-European memoranda that breaks down everything that is left after the Memorandum of Understanding on Labour and Insurance Rights and on the rest of the people. Of course, at the end of this money's return account will be paid again by the people, because there is no free meal, as the Prime Minister said. Therefore, people will be invited to pay the billions to be allocated to an infrastructure project necessary for capital and for investment projects through the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF. Also, whatever infrastructure is done, they make people's needs even more competitive, they increase the inequalities between satisfying needs and how the people can meet these needs. This seems out of the question of health and during the development with the pandemic, because the Prime Minister could yesterday speak about the compulsory vaccination for certain categories of workers, but also about this position reintroduces the issue of individual responsibility and cultivates social automation. The vaccinated person is faced with the inconvenience, losing the objective of who is responsible for this health situation in our country, namely, the government with its choices, as it refuses to proceed with the armouring of the public health system, the upgrading of primary health care, and maintains the rubber protocols for the benefit of business groups and public transport assembles. At the same time, while pandemic exists, the Prime Minister talks about the need for a merger of hospitals, but also about partnerships between the public and private sectors, and we know that the private sector through this process has made huge profits, taking advantage of the situation in the public health sector, as hospitals had turned into hospitals for a disease. So, against this real enemy that the people have to face, namely the capitalist system, capitalist development, the action of business groups and the policy of the European Union, we say that the people must stand up and conflict with these choices, so that they can pave the way for their own needs, the people's needs, which are not satisfied today because of the capitalist profit and the needs that this has. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mr Constantinidis has the floor from New Democracy and we will close with the three colleagues who are via Webex, starting with Mrs Liikanouli, who will speak after Mr Constantinidis. Mr. Efstathos Constantinidis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, your party has not taken an important step in the government as far as it was concerned on the issue of the fair transition of Western Macedonia to the post-liberal era, which in Greece denounces as hastily and prematurely and in Europe as a hesitant and slow one, and at the same time you blame the current government for creating a development deadlock in the region, for not having done your party during its term of office an important transport operation in your prefecture and for having put an end to the completion of the E65 and for coming to the ratification of this agreement, this same project and denounce the current government that unlocked it and implemented it, as my fellow co-rapporteur of the SYRIZA has already done, is at least surreal. With the ratification of the concession agreement, therefore, and the construction of the north section which remained pending in the previous period, the motorway E65 enters definitively on the road map. The key to its completion was the integration into the Recovery Fund and so soon this flagship project will unite the east with northwest Greece and especially PATHE with the Egnatia Road. With its construction, in fact, the main roads of the country are largely completed. It also referred to the committee, but also today, the history of this important, but afflicted, project which was in danger of being lame, without the systematic and persistent effort of the Government, the Minister of Transport, Mr Karamanlis, and the Prime Minister himself, in order to approve its financing by the European Union. The 31-5/2007 National Concession Convention of the Automotive of Central Greece had been amended three times to date and had passed from a thousand waves in relation to the roads, environmental licenses and, of course, its funding. Finally, it would be impossible to build it without raising funds from the Recovery Fund, which in practice means that the Northern Section is financed entirely from European resources. E65 was one of the five motorways of the 2007 concession agreement of the Government of Kostas Karamanlis, and as has been said by previous speakers, it has evolved in several stages. Initially, it had built its intermediate part and then started the southern part, which until the change of governance in 2019 went very slowly. Since then, the work has accelerated considerably and thus the southern part is expected to be delivered in the coming year. The northern part now, which until recently was blocked, is about linking the Trikala to Egnatia. It is 70.5 km long and a budget of 442 million euros. It is expected to create some a thousand new jobs in its construction phase. This is a state-of-the-art and safe highway, which is estimated at about three years, given its maturity, if no delays arise from the expropriations that are pending or other unforeseen events. The transport value of the project is undeniable, since it unites large and detached parts of the country, important urban centres and smaller cities with a rich historical route, strong primary sector and thematic tourist interest. But it will also be an interconnector for two important ports in the country, Volos and Igoumenitsa, as well as for an association with the European networks through the western Balkans. Thus, crossing the two main national roads in western Macedonia makes the wider Southeast European transport hub region. The E65, however, is also a hub in the road map of the transition of Western Macedonia to the post-linguistic era, since this would be impossible without the necessary transport networks. However, the opposite reading also applies, namely that this road would probably be incomplete if there were no challenge of liberation and a request for support with infrastructure in the project of moving the region into a new development and productive model. Finally, both readings confirm the necessity and appropriateness of design. And in order to prove it complete and effective, it must also be complemented by the interconnection of western Macedonia with the railway networks in the country, which is urgently sought by the entrepreneurs who wish to settle in our region. Apart from the E65, Minister, I would also like to mention the need to upgrade the Kozani-Laris road axis, which parts of which are of major study maturity, which is vital to the two regions, and in particular the municipalities of Serbia Velvetou, and which will give a development boost to the region's rich-growing forces, such as the extraction of marbles of Tranovalto, the livestock farming of Livader, the fruit production of Velvet, the olive oil production of the Imeris, the fishing and entertainment activity of the lake of Polyfytou and the other coastal communities. Therefore, given the investment interest in the face of the strong growth incentives that have been guaranteed, my place is entitled to and calls for transport infrastructures that are a prerequisite for attracting investment projects and creating new jobs. Minister, with the signing and ratification of the convention, a decisive step is being taken towards another important project for the country. As the Prime Minister has noted from this step forward this process coincides with the approval of the Greek recovery plan by ECOFIN, the instrument which will lead Greece to a new era of growth and creation. And for this to happen, our country must make use of all the financial instruments at its disposal. This is what the Ministry of Infrastructure, which, in two years' time, has entered into a contract with projects worth 4 billion, that is, multiples of what had been agreed by the previous government throughout its term of office. In total, the major infrastructure projects in the country are expected to exceed EUR 13 billion and everyone is aware of the impact of these investments on the real economy. Hot congratulations, Minister. Continue the hard work that all our fellow citizens will have to taste soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr Constantinidis. We continue with colleagues who will speak via Webex. Mrs Evangelia Lykikili of the Change Movement has the floor. You've got seven minutes, Mrs. Liikali.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have been following the debate with great interest today because it is an issue that you understand us in the Region of Thessaly, we are very much interested in, we have fought too much and we also claim the other parts of the major infrastructure and the major projects that the central point of Thessaly will highlight. Of course, it is true and I would like to make a comment, if you will allow me, Mr President, I do not understand the great joy and joy of many types of proclamation of the Prime Minister, like yesterday, for a reality that we live in the country and we remembered very strongly yesterday after the Minister's dilemma. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are with our backs on the wall and we must admit it this summer. Excessive relaxation, uneasiness, complacentness, the serpentines and fireworks that we lived in early summer, which the government showed and wanted to convince even that it had successfully overcome all the obstacles to pandemic and we were only discussing the opening of interior spaces in the focus for everyone. Now and today we are leaning behind developments, behind the pandemic, instead of being in front of it, predicting and taking the appropriate measures. The conclusion, therefore, of each and every one of us is that we have a huge deficit of early preparation and prevention, especially when it comes to a mutation and we are still almost - and I am putting more - of 40% of vaccinated people across Europe. I read this morning, ladies and gentlemen, the approach that Professor Mosialos has taken on the issue of vaccination compulsory, and I was really impressed by the approach, although he himself has a point of view on health and said that we have actually failed with regard to persuasiveness. And after you fail at that level, then you pass into the pocket and then you go to enforcement. This is happening today in our democracy, and let us not close our eyes, because we are obliged to do so and this is an assumption, but at the same time also a wound to democracy, which will see that we will be concerned with many years later. Finally, the comment on the most important measures from wherever they come is not enough to impose them and every time you announce them, every week and more, but the question is what control mechanism you really have, so that with justice these measures can be implemented. Do you have one? You don't have one. So when you don't have one, you can't advertise what you don't have to give. So to us today it is very difficult to find in plenary today I think a Member of Parliament who comes from and is elected from Thessaly, from any region in Thessaly and from any party, to say a dry 'no' to the ratification of this E65 convention. It was a dream a few decades ago, with a very long struggle, with battles very large that started in 2000 by the PASOK governments and while its official ratification took place in 2007, it was followed, of course, by many other agreements that were ratified in a series of laws of 2013, 2015 and 2018, are now reaching our current debate. We do not close our eyes on the 'Majandro routes' which have been followed many times in order to make this ambitious work of the highway of central Greece E65, a total of 181.5 km, which connects eastern Greece with western Greece into the trans-European transport networks, finally to be implemented. But the E65 must take place. It has to be done, because these 32.5 km of the E65 from Thermopyla to Xyniada, the 77.5 km from Xyniada to Trikala and the 70 km from Trikala to Grevena and the Egnatia Road will form part of a truly central road, a project of particular development strategic importance for the wider area of Thessaly. Of course, Thessaly is undergoing development and we must say that, not because we do not have strong people, not because we do not have creative powers that we have unfortunately not managed to liberate until now. We have wonderful producers, we have reliable entrepreneurs. The priorities that have so far been given to infrastructures in various parts of the country significantly restrict the Thessalonians to deliver the abilities maximise, and that is now where we are looking forward. Minister, we have few flaws of many years and many governments. I have told Parliament many times that no one has any vulgar hands to say 'I have done nothing'. And the last five years, unfortunately, with SYRIZA - ANEL, it was. No great work was proclaimed. A long time ago, unfortunately, they did not go ahead. And that is a reality that I want to tell these colleagues today, at least, that I saw them very passionately defend the previous project. But what we need to see is how we will make our regions vital with major infrastructure projects with which you need to take care and get back to what each region needs. You remember the great meeting that took place with the final state, and indeed with the head of Mr Gerapetritis, in which we were all invited for Acheloos' infamous and tyrannized work. Unfortunately, at the moment, we are stagnating, we are ignorant how you will proceed with a vital work for Thessaly that cannot proceed forward. Like also, Minister, for the network of critical infrastructures and development following the attacks suffered this year by Thessaly with 'Janus', floods, earthquakes, huge disasters, the wounds of Pharaoh in reality. Today the earthquakes with destroyed entire settlements and villages, tornadoes open and streets unexistent throughout the Law of Larissa hear from your Ministry and from the joint ministries of radio silence. You threw it all in self-government. What can self-government do, Minister? What do you have instead of having no? Your government loaned them for COVID, imagine. He's clearing it right now and asking for it back. When will the road be restored? When will the houses, settlements, infrastructures be again? With 48 degrees in Larissa, in the containers there are earthquakes. You didn't even inoculate them. So much for vaccination for the pandemic. So predictive you even existed for this part. Then you mind if I talk to you. We have no road map of how we will go step by step to restore these great wounds in Thessaly. Finally, I want to make this observation. The national recovery plan has been kept by your Government so far as a seven-sealed secret. You consult, you discuss it, you decide on it. You are not talking about it in this House, you are not talking about it with the parties, you are not talking about anything at all with us. You want to keep it for you. I conclude only by saying this, Minister. In these times, if, for the great works of breath, as we usually say, the infrastructure projects, which mark development, you still have this culture, consult, not represented by the entire Greek people in the decisions, that means two things: on the one hand, you consider the big infrastructures of the country to be a loot of your government and on the other, you do not want a dialogue on the decisions that you have already taken. Evidently everything not to say obvious. Unfortunately, however, this is understood by the ordinary people who are fighting in their difficult daily lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. Let's go to Mr. Athanasio Lita from New Democracy. Mr. Liuta, you have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day for my country, for the Trikalon Prefecture, as well as for the wider region of Thessaly, Epirus and western Greece in general. Today in Parliament we are discussing the ratification of the convention on the implementation of the northern section of the E65 motorway. This convention gives a definitive end to a time of postponement and delays and creates the strong foundations for the prospect of growth in our region. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the critical and great importance of the implementation of the northern part of the E65 for our region and for our entire country. In total, E65 was designed to unite Egnatia with PATHE, east with western Greece. It was designed to build a modern highway on the backbone of Greece, which would offer security and development, bring out many local economies and societies from isolation and connect ports with modern roads and provide the Greek region with a decisive prospect of progress and prosperity. Nowadays, this is all happening. Today we must congratulate the Prime Minister of our country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as well as the relevant Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Kostas Karamanlis. With a great struggle with perseverance and aiming the political leadership of our country, and our Prime Minister himself worked so that the work of the northern part of the E65 would come out of the stadium and start to be implemented. The Prime Minister's commitment to the complete completion of the project becomes a direct reality. The middle part is already in circulation. Work for the southern part continues at a rapid pace and will be delivered in 2022, while the northern part is estimated to have been released in three years. Ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the northern part of E65 is a very important task. The safe and modern road is a development ticket. In particular, when modern national roads meet and connect ports as well as main traffic and travel trade arteries in a country, we are dealing with a development vision. This project will ensure through modern national roads the links of our country with neighbouring countries such as Italy, through the port of Igoumenitsa, as well as with the Western Balkans and through them with Central and Northern Europe. This comes up and enhances Greece's position and power in our geopolitical region as a whole and makes it a modern travel and trade hub. This gives a decisive impetus for the development of our economy. The modern road means less time and at the same time more security. Modern roads imply a reduction in travel costs and therefore give a great and very strong competitive advantage. The development of trade requires easy and secure movement. Trade requires links between States and national economies. Modern roads are a key option when commercial roads are strategically planned. The maximum national economic and social importance of this project is therefore understood. Every road connecting many regions of the region with large urban centres, historically creates - de facto - conditions for attracting investment. Modern road means growth and progress. In addition, linking local societies and economies more quickly means a solution to the isolation that much of the province is currently experiencing. This also makes sense of the great support that will be given to the region of western Macedonia, now in the critical period of ligniteification. Now that the future of this region needs growth, new investment and new jobs, the implementation of infrastructure of such high importance, such as the E65, together with the targeted reform of our Government, is a valuable combination. They are the golden combination that can constantly produce great national benefit at the level of the economy and society. Clearly, too, we should stress that the social benefit of such projects is and will be very important. Modern highways imply road safety and the protection of human life against road accidents which constitute a continuous gangrene for our country. In conclusion, I should like to refer to my place and emphasise that Trikalon Prefecture is a key geographical point in the development and implementation of this great project. In Trikala ends the middle part of the E65, which starts from Xyniada, while the northern part of this highway will begin from Trikala, which will meet the northern Egnatia. This for our region is a very important fact and will give further growth impetus and dynamics. The Trikala Prefecture has a historical tradition in the field of transport. In the economic crisis of the last decade, this sector has been hit, as has our entire local economy. However, this work will also form decisive objective conditions for the resurgence of transport to and from this place. In addition, before the krone pandemic Trikala and total, our county lived real seasons of tourist blossom. The pandemic, as we know, hit the moves and thus our tourist product. But, at the end of the pandemic, in the post-COVID era tourism is one of the most valuable and powerful branches to support our regional and national economy. The fact that, with the completion of the northern part of E65 Trikala becoming easier to access both from north and from central and southern Greece, is equivalent to a strong support for the return of our tourist product and our local development. Ladies and gentlemen, today as a Trikalinos and as a Thessalonian citizen, I feel twice as proud in launching this particular work of the northern part of E65. Today, the vision and actions of our government and Prime Minister come to meet the vision and desire of fellow citizens in the Trikalon Prefecture, who have long sought this work. Our Government once again comes to support the Greek region and to offer projects with a development mark, promoting the national interest and helping many local communities and many citizens of our country, all of our fellow citizens who need and deserve a better and safer future, the future of production, work, prosperity and continuous development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Liuta. And we'll close with the minister's short-sleptist, Mr. Costa Bouba from the Greek Solution. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, although the sun is shining, this day I do not know if there is light. What we can do to illuminate some aspects of today's bill, because we in the Greek Solution always talk with evidence, so that the Greek people know what is going on. Our President, Mr Velopoulos, said so, of course, as far as tolls are concerned, which we are paying for. And since he is also a co-ordinator with Minister Karamanlis, when he will finally become the road to Goroya, which goes to Kilkis with heavy-type cars, a carniola road, or Drama - Amphipolis road that is built by MOMA during the seven-year period, and we will have Tumvos Kasta, the old Christian Amphipolis, the Alisteris Cave, when the part of Lefkotheas will also become the bridge that will connect the Lefkada to Visalt, then we may believe that development projects will also be carried out. Today the Prime Minister has not presented them to us well. He presented it to us three - good. If it is to include the work of the N65 and Greece 2021, to fund it, to put Mrs Angelopoulos in charge, to go well. Let's go a little now, so the Greek people know what's going on. First of all, isn't TERNA that has been accused of abusive redundancies a decade in Fthiotida? Remind me when the Stirfaka - Saint Stephanos fell, he could barely repair it at the risk of their lives. And then, because there were a lot of complaints, he started making abusive redundancies. You know that very well. This is 'TERNA'. And that is not because the government evangelizes the elastic working hours that we in the Greek Solution and our President have said that Article 59 is being violated, Article 65 on individual rights which are inextricably inalienable, but also Article 24 of the European Card of Rights and Workers in general. I say this about TERNA and abusive redundancies. That's it. To go to the big scandal now. When people hear about major construction projects, you know what they say? You know that. "The contractors will eat them again, a small company will have a good time, and we will pay for the toll hard." The Minister also said: "We will make you a highway in Crete", which we went with President Kyriakos Velopoulos and Antonis Mylonakis recently and the road is to turn there a war movie, is not to connect Chania to Lassithi. You know that. But the Minister said 'I will make you a highway, but prepare you psychologically for many tolls'. Let me just say it, folk 'plus'. Do you remember the great scandal on "Attica Street"? How can people trust all this? So what does this scandal say? I have heard Mr Spirtzi, because here he goes the arrows to SYRIZA and to the New Democracy: "He is delaying his surrender to the public, so that the public has lost substantial revenue...". Because what's going on there? The company, the ‘Attica Road’, which in its connection has the ‘ELLAKOR’ and the ‘AVAX’ company, has no profits. And why doesn't he make profits? Because if he presents profits, he will be amortized and the Attica Street, which brings money, has to be delivered. Because, listen, the Greek people, when maintenance is done on the roads, on all roads, the maintenance per kilometre is 60,000 to 80,000 euros. At Attica Street do you know how much we pay? A million euros. That's the big scandal! Because there with dividends up to 2024 in the company, 80 million per year, with an additional EUR 100 to 150 million over the next two years. That's why the Attica Street isn't delivered. That is why people say "the contractors are having a party". That's why they're having a party, because the New Democracy talks about PPP that publishes the public sector's partnership with the private sector as a lever for growth. But there are the big parties instead of getting from the NRP and other European programmes directly the assignment of roads and tolls to be its own. Because now only tolls get nothing. Mr. Velopoulos said that. The "Attica Routes", which is a subsidiary of the "Attica Road" as 80% of the "Attica Routes" is a shareholder of the "Attica Road". I mean, Yannis drinks, Yannis buys! On the one hand the money is gone and they go to the other, but it's the same trouser! And not only this, but 99.96% of the "Attractive Routes" that have taken over the Attica Road maintenance are the same companies, "ELLAKOTOR" and "AVAX". What's good? Yannis drinks. Nice trick, guys. That's a nice trick. A million euros maintenance per kilometre. And do you expect Greek parties to believe that construction works such as E65 are breathing works? What about liberation? Are they punks? Will companies come down the street and give jobs? Aah! It is a work of breath if it is considered because they will not have a job now in Kozani with the liberation that will be lost twenty thousand jobs, to be a quick escape path to get people to work there, Kozani, Ptolemais, Florina, Castoria etc. Let's go now. E65. The southern 32km, we pay very much the 7.5km as well as my fellow Member and special speaker, Kostas Hetas, for expropriations, etc. We'll cut a ribbon for 14 kilometers, bring the channels to be a grate spectal, super spectacle, which if New Democracy goes to cut ribbons on toll, every day it'll have five, ten openings. Mr. Peristeris remember what he said, where is the CEO of Terna? At a conference, what did he say? It's okay, and not to do the work, we'll be compensated badly. How nice, how nice. Well, evidence. People in Lamia, Karditsa or Trikala show evidence that they don't use the middle street of E65. Not because it is half-finished, but because it has to pay from EUR 3 to EUR 5 tolls, because there is a front toll station and three side stations. What did Kyriakos Velopoulos tell you in his speech, to freshen the memory? You haven't left any paradoxes! Same here. Now, new tolls are inaugurated in Derveny. We've got Promachona, we've got the Strymontic before the tolls right now. In order for one of the Serres to go to Thessaloniki, he pays them badly. The situation is continuing. Vehicles in a survey carried out by Christmas 2017 may look good with more than 1 million vehicles for the E65, but the financial information, gentlemen, says the construction company is not coming out. So the work, as Europe had its reservations, is not a work that can be depreciated. Let me remind you now, in March 2019, a request was made to the Director-General for Competition of the Commission. Why did that happen? In order for Europe to recognise that the E65 must go with a project as a public task to be entrusted directly. That's so good! No bidding contest. The data that I have received from economic circles, from "AXIANEWS", economic site with economic analysis, say the traffic in vehicles will increase by 0.1%. Oh, no, no, Is that the development project, the big move? Because people cannot pay the euro in tolls and will even go from the provincial streets. So for others, the bell's ringing. Now, the public burden will be EUR 450 million on the basis of the budget and the time horizon for 2037 to be another EUR 150 million. I would like to ask: are there any Dutch people who came as big shareholders - I don't know, I don't know - why are they here? But now we're going to present something else. According to Mr Chrysochoidis, because I would remind you that Mr Chrysochoidis was Minister of Infrastructure, and had presented five consortia with revenues from 2008 to 2013. As a Greek Solution we want to tell the Greeks this to see what builders of toll companies are planning on the streets and how much profits will go in the coming years. ‘Olympia Street’, Michael Chrysochoidis, EUR 433 million. It's Elefsina - Corinth - Patras. "New Street" Antirios - Ioannina - Chalkida 441m euros. It's a million-dollar tunnel here. "Aegean Automotive Road" 315 million in the Malian which happened, because many colleagues referred to the carnival of the Malian Sea. "Moreas", Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata 149 million. The poorest relative on the basis of the data provided in 2013 by the then Minister of Infrastructure Michalis Chrysochoidis has only 31 million. By 2041-heard, Greek people - the revenues from 1.5 billion euros today will go to 7 billion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u141	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u142	These must be heard by the Greek Solution. I know I don't have time, but they need to be heard because nothing has been said. I'm going to go to an investigation that Mr. Villard has done, and I'm going to be very brief. What's he doing in Egnatia and tolls, like in Malgara? Is the TIAD doing any work that is the superstition for ninety-nine years supposed property of the Greek people to manage the tolls? The "Egnatia Street", says the Minister, will be another forty years like the TIADE we gave ninety years. The banks, what do they have to ask for money behind the "Egnatia Street"? Mr. Viliardos says so in his analysis that he has not done any damage to the 2018 balance sheet and Piraeus Bank took 250 million back. Is that what we're gonna pay for with the construction companies? Are these the development projects? Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time tolerance, but this has to be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. A number of colleagues have asked for the floor. We'll start with Mr. Logiadis and hang up with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, to make it clear that as a PART25 we are not against such infrastructure projects as Line 4. We're just against any sloppyness, every mismanagement, every intertwined, every "bridge of the Arta", every barrel with no bottom. One is the solution, because the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has already referred to the clear separation of powers. If there is once no clear separation of powers, we will always be in the same place, two hundred years from now. The same applies to Line 4. Without parking he will not have the efficiency and benefit he would have for society, for people and for the environment. What seems to be the case is that of these projects only the level of investment and not the effectiveness of the projects. It is only for money to be spent and obviously to be shared in the 'logues'. The Minister said earlier, Mr Kefaliannis Yanis Varoufakis, that he had said that BOAK does not need to. First of all, I should like to stress that BOAK as he is, is not right. So BOAK needs to be fixed. But he's the current BOAK. I would like to remind the Deputy Minister, who is from Crete, that the connections from the airport to the highway has a ruin since this road has been built, which is unacceptable, dangerous and has never been built. If there is an accident, it will also have a huge impact on our tourism. I would also like to mention the Secretary-General, as he said about BOAK, that in all of the BOAK today there is not a single public toilet. We are an island that we have a lot of tourism from east to west there is no toilet. Furthermore, for the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, I would like to say that the coronary vaccine was found, Mr President, but the traffic accident vaccine will never be found because there is no political will. With regard to Castelli airport, I would like to say briefly that there are still judgments pending, and the government continues to build Castelli. The expropriations made have not yet been paid for the property owners. And when it's done, if it's over, flights will be made at night, which is forbidden, and there will be a reaction from the world. When the government announces public works, as the Prime Minister has done today - who may have come every time there is a bill in this House and talked to us about this - but, as we have seen today, we, with the announcement of public works from the Recovery Fund, think we are going for elections. Finally, what has been heard today about the Prime Minister and the tax declarations, normally in a favoured state, should have intervened, but justice is independent. But is justice independent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Loyadis. Mr. Giannoulis will now speak from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, Mr Giannoulis will speak first and then I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Spirtzi, one of the two will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u148	Both of you. From the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u149	I think you're doing it out of the evil, Mr. Spirtzi, please. I know you have a right as a parliamentary representative, but one should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u150	Our rapporteur will speak and I will speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, to help me, I will speak for a minute as rapporteur, because I have already consumed my time. But that doesn't rescind the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u152	You're welcome. But hold on a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u153	In one minute I will simply ask myself that the Prime Minister did not need help today in overturning the two-year inertia of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I do not know what helps SYRIZA more than progressively: The silence and non-responses of the Minister for Infrastructure or Mr Mitsotakis' report with what he claims? And I close by saying he was ironed by telling us he's going to invite us to the opening. I wonder, will she invite us to the opening of the subway of Thessaloniki by Mr. Zervas in 2023, by Mr. Tachiau in 2024, by Mrs. Mendoni in 2025, by Mr. Karamanlis at once? In some of these openings he might call us. I would also like to say, and I am really closing down so that I do not abuse your time, because we are starting and experiencing serious issues of simple understanding, that I do not believe that it writes anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that the vote in favour of a bill, and I am tabling it as a vote and as a attitude of our party on the bill, must be accompanied by comical flattery and biblicals to be regarded as a positive one. I have heard the 'good luck' accompanying the vote in favour of this bill. Finally, I want to say something last in seconds. It is really a political outrage when a Prime Minister who has conquered the confidence and the majority of the Greek people in this Step and does not have the courage to think about what a former Member of the New Democracy thought, Mrs Marcos, on the subject of "outside you" and all the things that have been revealed, which he boldly wondered that if he were in his place he would first ask for the investigation of the complaint. I'm sorry. In any case, the answers we expect from Mr Karamanlis are as follows: for the EUR 38 million. When will the subway of Thessaloniki finally be delivered. And if he can answer what has happened, since the debate has taken place, with the competition for the new buses, which for two years now, after the cancellation of the contest, we are still waiting for them to have left the ones that have no brakes, but have passengers, and those that are burning. Today Mrs Notopoulou appealed as a municipality to justice. If he's got any answers, well, otherwise all of our arrows were fired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we want you to commit yourself to the nine months or to amend it as provided for in the expropriations. And we say this so that the Greek people will not pay money in compensation again. We will tell you that tomorrow, if the expropriations, as defined and published in the FEK, start by 3 August, which will run by the Government's Journal of 7a, which we incorporated, then the Ministry's Expropriations Directorate should send them to the Larissa and Kozani Court - I do not know how long it takes - then to write applications for each decision, you need six to eight decisions on all property, to ask for a court to be determined with 7a. A postponement is always given, the officials of the Ministry can inform you of this, at least thirty days and the courts are closed, as you know in September plus the charges they have for the coronary. So you anticipate a decision at the end of February to hand over money to the Deposit and Loan and publish the FEK tables. Then they may be able to get the crews in and out for construction. And obviously you understand, too, that you won't make it in nine months. So I think that, in order to protect the Greek people's money, there must be at least a political commitment and a management provision if you do not manage it, because the whole of the money here is public money, it is not from the concessionaire. And I will briefly give a few answers on two, three things which have been heard on the occasion of the position of my companion and friend Paul Paul Paul and the Deputy Minister for the BOAK. Mr. Karamanlis, if I remember well, SYRIZA ruled four and a half years. Over the last few decades since the Mitsotakis republic is not governed by SYRIZA, and certainly since the Mitsotakis family has been in the political system of the country, it is a few years later our grandparents came from Smyrna. It is for us that nothing has been done in Crete until Kyriakos Mitsotakis came to the President of the New Democracy, SYRIZA ruled. I will give you a brief account of the post-multiple situation of the New Democracy. Fifty years you have made half a bridge in Hamez with a static problem, half a road to Messara with constant landslides, a road to the Great Villages that you denounced us already, because it threw water and was demolished, and Mr. Kefaliannis comes today and, indeed, he lies between the Greek Parliament and his Region. In Rethymnon, who has reactions to the shape of the BOAK that we made, but you didn't take it for consultation, says SYRIZA did it. This is where SYRIZA said he didn't do anything. Are you going to make up your mind? Has SYRIZA done it or hasn't he? It says about environmental studies and all the other technical studies and you don't tell us who assigned them and what the timetable was until the end of September, October 19, to come out. You two years of government, and what have you done for BOAK? At first you were telling us a competition, you were going to make BOAK Patras - Tower, from Kastelli Chania - to inform him that as a deferred project it was Chania - Kastelli Chania because it doesn't even know - you were telling us a competition from Kastelli Chania to Sitia. You realized that, as we told you, it's inappropriate, it's not out of traffic, and Mr. Mitsotakis said that. You took it from Sitia to Agios Nikolaos, and you said you'd finance it from the bonds. Then you said you'd put it in the new ESRB. Where do you put it in the new ESRB with 3 billion you have negotiated for infrastructure projects? One-and-a-half billion is just the subway 4 line. Then you said you were going to have a competition in common with Attica Street. You are now coming and telling us that you have guaranteed 400 million since the 1 billion 800 million from the Support Fund. We wish you didn't collect the cost of the project, which I don't see you pick it up, that the market will also respond so that you won't keep mocking the Cretans, as you've done over the last 50 years. The other thing that the last seven, eight, nine years, how old is, you've thrown tons of lies...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u156	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u157	And that's what I'm closing down with. It's the Patras tower. Minister, for Patras - Tower you have received an initial approval, because DGGrow will see it again, as you know very well with DGComp and is at DGComp to accept whether State aid is compatible or not. Right? In other words, the State aid to a project to be integrated into the concession will put the Greek State 224 million and 90 million will be put in place by the concessionaire. If 70% is compatible with 30% and we are overcoming Mr Chrysochide's ministerial decision, which he had made, as you said, the contest, so the ministerial decision that Patras - Tower is excluded from the concession in '13. That's what I don't know if you've told DGGrow and now that she's coming back, she'll see it again. If we get over this, I ask you this: you have committed yourself to making the same money of the competitive procedures that SYRIZA has done and canceled the contracts. What kind of money? It is 224 million public contribution to 70%, 95 of the concessionaire, so 319. The results of the competitions are 224, 70 million more. And I ask who will sign up for 70.75 million more in relation to competitive procedures that have been done as a public project? And that is to see how we respect public money and not what you said we allegedly did for certain contractors in particular, and so on, and they proved to be, and will prove to be, in the future, to be approved by the European Commission, which we do not anticipate. As far as political negotiation is concerned and as Mr Mitsotakis does, there are procedures in the European Commission which fail to achieve the political negotiation must be the procedures and regulations. Mr President, in the hope that the rest of the time spent in the government and in the final state of Mitsotakis will be revived in relation to infrastructure projects and transport, it will not go as fast as the first two years and Mr Chrysochoidis has a problem, because you will be written by the wheel with such a speed that you are going and the state will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u158	I would ask you very much to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u159	In other words, all these hundreds of millions of billions and billions you have postponed, and you have canceled to re-examine them, such as buses, so that we do not have the same examples as the buses of Leipzig. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too. I like that you keep your promises. Mr Themistoklis Himaras, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have closed two years in this term of office, it is my first two years as a Member, and I have to say that during our speech we have the opportunity to place ourselves in a way that is easy or difficult. The easy way is that of the conflict, which bored me as a citizen before dealing with the commons, which made me not want to see what is going on in this House. The difficult path is that of consensus, consensus on real issues, people's problems. This difficult path I always choose when I address the National Representation. That's what I did today in my prototype. I tried to stand up to what unites us. I have tried to stand by the historical, if you like, a milestone of the E65 to show that the contribution of all governments was important, so that we can finally get to today's outcome. I have listened carefully to the positions and also with a certain disappointment of the so-called members of the opposition, and I am actually forced to refer to specific milestones in relation to the implementation of the public infrastructure in our country for the restoration of the truth. Our prolongation, the New Democracy, is matched by the country's largest infrastructure projects. The first national road networks were developed under the premise of the late Constantine Karamanlis, including the first regulator projects which included the main later axes of the National and Attica Road as early as 1974. The construction of the old National Road, as well as most of the modern A1, has been implemented for our time. In Fthiotida, from which I come, which almost all houses had grieved in the "Petal" of the Malian, the construction of the "petal" meant the final end to this cycle of blood that had opened, with very considerable efforts by the then Minister, Mr. Sufflia. The start of the E65 in 2007, which was afflicted several times because of the economic crisis that followed, was one of the five motorways connecting the development paths of the Minister at the time Giorgos Souflias and the government of Kostas Karamanlis. It was a leading project grid completely developmental that changed the country's road map. The completion of the Egnatia Road and its final tradition in 2014, the design and implementation of the A7 of the Central Peloponnese until the end of 2013, Ionia Street and Olympia Street, two roads with the signature of George Souflia. Later in 2013, the government of Antonis Samaras was the one that successfully negotiated with the concessionaires and banks to unlock important projects. What if there were mistakes and omissions and delays? Of course there were. We recognize them and learn from them. What if there was continuity from all successive governments? Alas if it didn't exist. I answered it before. To reach today, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis who plans and moves forward in the construction of modern infrastructure, bringing out many of the tide in which they had reached, such as the completion of the E65 and the Patras-Pyrgos axis, the BOAK, the completion of Line 4 of the metro, the metro of Thessaloniki, the afflicted and afflicted one. These and many more compose the 13 billion-dollar plan for projects of national importance, in the past, for years, loaded up, but also new projects such as the railway infrastructure programme, a project that can surely lead to job creation and the development of the country's GDP. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in particular the SYRIZA, the New Democracy was nothing more than an incomplete and problematic aspect of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Himara. We'll close with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Constantine Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the views of all my fellow Members, which is why I have chosen to speak at the end so that I can give a complete answer to most of what has been said. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of politics as a government for major infrastructure projects. One way is to keep saying words and inaugurating mustards, to announce works without any reflection, without funding, without a timescale, to fly fireworks, not to come into contact with the European Commission and to proceed to works only in words, as we said before. If you want, there is also a way of sticking to past ideas, when you said you would rip up the memoirs, revisit the basic public procurement law, which you brought in and modified it three hundred times, leave works blocked and complex problems and do nothing to solve them. And now and then trying to help no one of your contractors at Patras - Tower, can they help you make a channel, which has probably not gone any further? And as I told you before, when the elections are coming, without showing anything handmade and something of your own, going to Thessaloniki, putting mushrooms and inaugurating them. But there's another way. He may be less spectacular indeed, he has fewer fireworks and certainly does not include big words. You put your head down, you shape your plan, you present it and you slowly make it a reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u164	But it's too slow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u165	We, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are now doing two years of work in the long term. I'll tell you, dear Mr. Spirtzi, what we've done in two years. First of all, we have reviewed the very problematic institutional framework of L.4412, so that projects can be done transparently and effectively and quickly. We have therefore sat down in depth, and we have studied the complex problems - you know better than me that these problems are very complex because you have also been Minister and President of the TEI - and we have tried to resolve the many blocked projects that have been in existence for years, not only with the responsibility of the previous government. Where we could give a solution, we proceeded like Line 4. But where it was impossible to find solutions, like the Patras to Tower, we proceeded responsibly and did what we said in the election and that is why the world voted for us. At the same time, we put down what is the real needs of the place and put forward a major infrastructure project to make Greece a node of infrastructure in Southeast Europe. We made, you know, a difficult decision not to announce fireworks like the so-called Radical Left, if we don't have to say anything specific in time and in a financial model that we're going to follow. And so today we have come to have a very concrete and comprehensive plan of 13 billion euros, the biggest I would have told you decades ago, and certainly the biggest thing that has been done since the Olympic Games. So in 2021, ladies and gentlemen, it is the year of infrastructure. It's the year when big projects that were stuck unlocked. I referred to Line 4, which is the largest public project to be done in the coming years in our country and in Patras - Tower where, although Mr Spirtz has another view, we will see construction sites by the end of the year. Now, as to what you said about the tower of Patras. Mr. Spirtzi, be very careful when you refer to Patras - Tower, a project that you found ready and partied, to favour a particular contractor. You flew some numbers. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, to understand what the reality is. With the contractors chosen by the previous government who gave a discount of over 50%, contractors who are not famous for their effectiveness - I am not talking about solvency, I am talking about efficiency - the public's financial contribution was 250 million. We have said that this work will be put into the concession and the public's financial contribution here is 224. And I ask, who will do the work better? The one who gives 55% discount and has never done such a project or the Olympian Street? So I don't have to say anything. Here are citizens judging and will be judged by us all. You referred to the subway of Thessaloniki. The Council of State made a decision and had also made in 2016, not in plenary, but in the department. It's the same decision. So what do we say? That we need to move forward and leave the controversies behind. With regard to the northern part of the E65 we are debating today, I shall refer in greater detail to you, but to reply to what you say about expropriations and to present it in the Minutes, because you know, Mr Spirtzi, the written ones are here. You hadn't calculated nine months of expropriations. Do you remember how much you had calculated? Seven months. Here I have the answer to understand the mockery!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u166	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Spirtzi, I heard you as a good student. I'd like you not to interrupt me. So I'm putting it in the Minutes, and here we are for all to be judged. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] However, as far as E65 is concerned, there are other very important projects that we are slowly highlighting. In Thessaloniki, beyond the metro we managed a while ago to reconcile the part from pier 6 to PATHE, a work that was a comedy for the co-chair. He had a bridge in the air for years. We haven't done anything about it in ten years. We've solved it now. Maybe you don't like it, but the Thessalonians think they like it. So what else did we do? Regional Thessaloniki: A project that the Government of New Democracy had done again in the 1990s, which was fought back then. We say: To solve the traffic we are going through a project that is the FLYOVER of Thessaloniki, which we are now in the second phase. We are putting the largest rail project of 3.3 billion, which we will present in detail and in full consultation with the European Commission in the very near future. We are also moving forward with anti-military projects which you, in part, had started, like road safety projects, the so-called 'PBOA' which you had advanced but which you had not succeeded in completing. Therefore, as you can see, I do not want to zero - and I have said so in a brief speech - the work done by the previous governments. After all, I told you that what we received and could go ahead, we went ahead. But, ladies and gentlemen, reality is one. In the four-and-a-half years that you have governed, you have settled projects totalling less than EUR 800 million, while in the two years we have settled projects of 3.2 billion, of the thirteenth that we have presented. I'll say that again because I think it needs to be stressed. Projects under 800 million have been compromised in four and a half years by the government of SYRIZA. We have settled the four-fold amount in less than two years. In words, then, you may outweigh us, but in works you seem to stay a little behind. So that is the reality and, unfortunately, as good as you say here in this Chamber, this reality you cannot deal with. In any case, you've always had a problem with your resignation with reality. So let's go see what these works are going to do. These projects enhance the everyday life and quality of the citizens' lives. They're boosting the economy. They give thousands of new jobs, as other colleagues have said. They're giving growth. And such a project is the northern part of E65. It is a project that is practical support for our government in western Macedonia. At the critical moment of absolute defoliation, we all understand that this project strengthens local development, contributes to the modernisation of the businesses active in the region and encourages new investments and creates new jobs. E65-many said this in this Chamber - it was auctioned as a concession contract in 2007, when your party was in the bars and against concessions. Then the intermediate part, Xyniada - Trikala, was implemented. So what did we pick up on E65? The southern part progressed very slowly, while the northern part remained blocked, involved and without funding. Today in the southern part we are moving at a rate of 50% faster and so we have already reached 70% of the project. In a few days, we will deliver the first fourteen miles, and we will invite you, Mr. Spirtzi, to the opening. For two years, therefore, without much talk, but with systematic work, with contacts with the European Commission, we have managed to make the northern part of the E65 reality. You have told us that if possible, the Prime Minister should also be involved in such negotiations. I'm sorry to say that, but so much is your inconsistency with the European data you say such words and you are being exposed. Is it ever possible for the President of the Government of a country not to give weight to such an important project and not to negotiate for a project that - you know better than me - had no chance of financing? So, yes, Mr. Spirtzi, the Prime Minister himself lifted his sleeves and helped us make this work a reality. And then, with his personal intervention, he put it in the Recovery Fund. Today, then, we pay this contract. As we all know, it is a very important project with a budget of EUR 442 million. It extends from Trikala to Egnatia and has a length of seventy kilometers. It is a great project that means quick, environmentally friendly, but primarily safe moves. It not only connects Athens with western Macedonia but also Italy through the port of Igoumenitsa, with the Western Balkans and through them with Central and Northern Europe. This is why the project is funded by the Recovery Fund. And as I mentioned before, in this way, step-by-step way, we are trying to make our homeland an infrastructure hub in the wider region. I am not going to talk about the 38 million, because while your rapporteur referred to them, he is a little inconsistent. Mr. Spirtzis, who is more read-up, did not refer to these, which means that perhaps Mr. Spirtz explains why the 125 million anticipated by SYRIZA became 38. Therefore, it is good when we come to this room, apart from intelligence and insulting, to be read. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to reiterate that we are still at the beginning of the implementation of a very specific project programme which, in fact, we believe will change the country. We are moving forward - step by step. We use every available tool. Only in 2021, Mr Spirtzi, while you did two PPPs, because you have the hooks with the PPP projects that I accept, and you think they are part of the private sector, we already have in the Ministry in progress with twenty PPPs with a total budget of 5 billion. This is the difference between the government of SYRIZA and ours. We are trying and using all the financial instruments available to us so that we do not lose one euro, so that we can integrate as important projects as possible. This is how we use private sector PPP projects. We're exploiting the leverage of funds. We are comparing our powers with every euro of the Greek taxpayer. Next time we add another weapon, which we will legislate, and here we will be, Mr Spirtzi, discuss it again. I know you have objections to this, but this is a temple of democracy, here we are having dialogue. We will bring innovation proposals, which are also another tool that we believe can give solutions to a number of issues in the area of public works. Because this is the job that a Minister, a ministry, must do on these issues, trying to use all available tools. It is all very important, but it is only a part of our plan, because in New Democracy we sincerely believe that, with what we are doing, our country really can change its face in a few years. The point is that, despite political controversy, I think we will all agree that these projects will give a huge boost to the Greek economy and we all know that these projects are projects which will change the form of the country. I have told you many times, and I have even told you before I became Minister, when I was inaugurating what you had completed, when you were against the concessions. You remember them, Mr Spirtzi, what you had paid, the anointed 750 million, and we came here to say that, despite the mistakes you made in the era of your revolution in 2015, you understood after a few months in power - and you in your ministry and that honours you - that the concessions that started this line, the European road's quotation, is the only way to quickly do the works. You too, if you delay me, even if you exceed the budget. Because, as I have told you, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population, another may concede the idea of a project, another may ripe it, another may be auctioned, and the most important thing I would tell you is a step in a project, another to complete it and another to cut the ribbon. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] So here we are talking about a project that has been through a thousand waves - and that is what I am closing down, Mr President - the northern part of the E65. So this means, today, that it is now going into the construction phase and I would say to you that I think everyone in this Chamber should be really pleased that we have achieved a great deal of work, another big project to unlock it and put it forward. We are therefore continuing despite any political controversy, and we are taking a step so that major infrastructure projects are a reality. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u168	Thank you too, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is closed: "Follow it from 24.06.2021 Amendment Agreement from 31.05.2007 Concession Convention for the Project "Study, Construction, Financing, Operation, Maintenance...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, the Minister must answer. A piece of paper was filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u170	...and Operation of the Central Greece Motorway (E65)” ratified by n. Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168), as amended: 1) by Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168 of 28.11.2013 (Agreement to Amending Provisions of the Concession Convention)...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, the paper they gave is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u172	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u173	... validated by the second article of Law 4219/2013, "Structuring of the Agreements...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u174	Has the amendment been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, the Minister did not tell us about an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u176	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u177	The document is wrong. Does the amendment also apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u178	The Minister did not tell us about an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u179	You didn't answer that, Minister, did you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u180	Is the amendment true?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u181	If the Minister hasn't answered, I'm sorry. I thought he'd answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u182	You tabled a parliamentary amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u183	I don't have anything here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u184	Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u185	There is no amendment at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, the document is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u188	You can't take the floor. The procedure is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, the document is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u190	Then he'll have to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, it's a poaching.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u192	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u193	No, the procedure's closed. I should like to take this opportunity of congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent Is there an amendment? There is no amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, a document has been filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Spirtzi, you won't take the floor. Please. Then the Minister will have to answer. The procedure is closed. Mr. Lambroulis, tell me what you want, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, an amendment has been tabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u197	A parliamentarian who does not accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u198	I am sorry to interrupt you, but I would like to make a clarification in relation to the amendment tabled, because it has not been heard by the Minister in his speech, whether or not he will accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u199	She's not accepting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u200	You say that there is no amendment. The amendment is in place. Now, if she's not accepted, that's another matter. Just so we know, I ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u201	You're right, Mr. Bright.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u202	A document has been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Spirtzi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, there has been a smuggling in the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u205	The amendment tabled is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u206	All right, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, it has not been closed. I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u208	The procedure, Mr Spirtzi, has been closed. The Minister spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u209	The document is different. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u210	A document has been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u211	One document and it is different from what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u212	That was in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u214	No, it's not in the Minutes. She testified...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Spirtzi, you're embarrassing me and you know that. Please, too! I said the Minister's gonna talk and we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u216	I'm not embarrassing you. A document was filed, which is not that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Spirtzi, please! You know I'm sympathetic to you, that I'm in a good mood to you, don't embarrass me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u218	It is not a matter of personal relations, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u219	It's not a matter, but the procedure is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, you weren't listening, we called you. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u221	It's not like we weren't listening. Then the Minister will have to answer. The Minister doesn't want to hear anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, he said that it was another document and another he tabled it. We call it Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u223	The Minister said he filed a document...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u224	He filed it in the Minutes. How did it get there now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Karamanlis filed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u226	We asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u227	This is a quote from the Samara Government Convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u228	Have you reviewed this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u229	What are you talking about? I mean, Irrelevance has limits. So one is that. So, this isn't the SYRIZA government's...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Spirtzi, we're going to start something we shouldn't. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u231	Secondly, Mr President, we will also invite Mr Karamanlis to the opening and the southern...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Spirtzi, you're embarrassing me. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u233	...and the north.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u234	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u235	No, Minister. The debate on the first, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is adjourned: "Follow it from 24.06.2021 Amendment Agreement of 31.05.2007 Concession Agreement for the Project "Study, Construction, Financing, Operation, Maintenance and Operation of the Central Greece Motorway (E65)" ratified by Mr. Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168), as amended: 1) by Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168), as amended by the Amendment Agreement of 28.11.2013 (Agreement amending the Provisions of the Concession Convention) ratified by the second of Article 2 of the Convention. 4219/2013 ‘Preparation of the Agreements amending the Concession Agreements of major road projects and regulating related issues’ (A'269), 2) by the Agreement of 19.12.2013 ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of 28.11.2013 amending the Concession Contract Provisions’ ratified by Article 44 of the Act. 4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’ (A'176) and (3) with the Amendment Agreement of 11.12.2018 ‘Agreements to the Concession Convention’ ratified by Article 1 of Council Regulation (EC) No 4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms’ (A' 176). Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, an article, a farewell article, and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u236	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u237	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u238	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Structuring it from 24.06.2021 Agreement amending its provisions from 31.05.2007 Concession Convention for the Project "Study, Construction, Financing, Operation, Maintenance and Operation of the Automotive of Central Greece (E65)" ratified by Mr. Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168), as amended: 1) by Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168), as amended by the Amendment Agreement of 28.11.2013 (Agreement amending the Provisions of the Concession Convention), ratified by the second sentence of Article 2 of the Convention. 4219/2013 ‘Preparation of the Agreements amending the Concession Agreements of major road projects and regulating related issues’ (A'269), 2) by the 19.12.2013 ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of 28.11.2013 Amendment of the Concession Agreement’, ratified by Article 44 of the Act. 4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Budget Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’ (A'176) and (3) with the Amendment Agreement of 11.12.2018 ‘Agreements to the Concession Convention’, ratified by Article 1 of Council Regulation (EC) No 4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions of the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms’ (A' 176). Regulation (EEC) No 4586/2018 (A'217) was accepted by a majority, in principle, of the articles and in total, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u240	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-13-S1-commons.u241	With the consent of the House at 18.33 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 14 July 2021 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion on the distributed findings of the "Special Parliamentary Committee for preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016, followed by Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information up to 09-07-2019, Mr Nikolaos Papapas in the performance of his duties", accepting or not the proposal to prosecute the former Minister and taking a decision, by secret ballot, on the Commission's proposal for a prosecuting act as defined and specified in its terms of reference, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution (in particular par. 3), 153 pp. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 2 and Article 3 and Article 157 of the EEC Treaty. 3126/2003 'Governmental Responsibility' (particularly paragraphs). Article 6(1), (2) and (3)), as applicable, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
