ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin with the agenda, I would like to say something about the whole of Hellenism in this Chamber all over the world. Today, then, is a day when our nation has suffered a national amputation for which it has been bleeding for forty - seven years. Like today, July 20, 1974, the Turks invaded our Cyprus and sprinkled death and refugee to more than two hundred thousand Cypriot brothers. To say that those years that pass should not and we cannot forget it looks common, but it is the really bitter truth, because the black memories of that dawn day that Attilas was stepping his foot in our witness Megalessos will never be and will never be erased from the hearts of the Greeks, they will never be erased from the soul of Hellenism. I feel that it is not just our obligation, but our national duty to always show irresistible determination along with the Republic of Cyprus and never to stop striving to end the illegal occupation of the Turkish army in Cyprus, never to stop fighting for its reunification, as much as the Turks are causing, until today, a festival in Famagusta to convince themselves that their invasion of the Great was an act of peace. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our historic responsibility for Greece and Cyprus to fight and achieve a peaceful solution to the Cyprus issue in the context of UN and International Law resolutions. For all this, I urge you to keep a minute's silence on behalf of the Greek Parliament for those who gave their lives for their homeland, for the ideals of Hellenism, the Republic and the Peace. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Wednesday 21st July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 959/19-7-2021, by MP B3's South Athens section, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Abolition of the decision to interrupt orthopaedic clinics at the hospital of Asclepius Boulas". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 949/19-7-2021 topical question by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The inadequate staffing of the General Hospital (GC) Livadias is causing immediate problems of his dysfunction and poses risks to the health and life of citizens". 3. - The question by number 952/19-7-2021 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The dangerous functioning of the Pneumonological Clinic of the Trinity Hospital". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. - The Question by Mr Charalambos, Member of the Parliament, Mr Haralambos, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, dated 965/19-7-2021, on the subject of: 'What will be the form of utilization of the area of the airport 'Nikos Kazantzakis' in Heraklion Crete?' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 954/19-7-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr Ioannis Delis, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Problems of workers at the General Hospital of Thessaloniki (GNI) "C. Papanikolaou’ in Regional Unit (IP) Thessaloniki’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The Question No 6177/21-4-2021 by Mr Evia, Member of the SYRIZA, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Diar degradation of the General Hospital - Health Center (GCM) Kymis". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle of Articles, and of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘The integrated framework for waste management — Incorporation of Directives 2018/851 and 2018/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste, framework for the organisation of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, provisions on plastic products, urgent provisions on the protection of the natural environment, spatial planning and energy regulations’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15 July 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, be involved, a circle that will in priority include one speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the ratio of five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one from the other parties. A teleconference service or physically present is also proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. With a rough calculation made by the services, including about one hour of immunity will be lifted and with little tolerance in time, at least to the rapporteurs and to the parliamentary representatives, we can be done at about seven o'clock. Is there any objection to the basic recommendation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u2	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I want to protect the Bureau. I think the Bureau in a Parliamentary Republic has some responsibility. Last night we had two amendments. We are not within a memorial that we, you and in the end had to bring things that had nothing to do with each other. We're supposed to be normal. They bring two amendments on many issues with algorithms, with specific proposals for specific parts. What kind of parliamentary procedure is this? Does the Bureau have any reason to protect us from these procedures? So do you really think that, outside the committee debate, we can now come to discuss photographic provisions? Read it, Mr President, you who have this experience, see how many details Mr Famelos and all of us have is impossible to analyse. This is not a democratic process and I tell you because I know that you are sensitive to these things and I do not say that as a cheap compliment, but I believe that. There's a major problem here. It is a very big problem when the government faces this House with mocking. There's no other word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u6	We are not surprised by this tactic of the government. He does it in all the bills. I would like to address the Minister. At least the Ministers are sensitive to the relevant committees to inform of the content of their amendments. You don't do that either. You are coming at the last moment to table amendments concerning changes in the legislation of 1979 without any debate, without any information from the House, without any consultation. This thing can't go on. It's an insult to the parliamentary procedure. From this step, Mr President, I have also addressed you to the President, Mr Tasoula, at some point a barrier. I don't know if he feels comfortable with this process of "functionality" of the National Representation. I understand - and I understand - that in summer races can serve to solve the problem, whether photographic, as Mr Tsakalotos said, or serious malfunctions, but in any case the bill itself is not wronged by the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment. That is why we call for the amendments to be withdrawn and debated in a process which at least the National Representation will not feel surprised and insulted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. We always listen with interest to the opposition, but in this Chamber there is also a prehistoric of legislating with dozens of legislative acts, a vote by a number of other thousands of pages without the necessary preparation and information. The question, particularly for ministerial amendments, is whether they resolve matters. Unfortunately, I did not hear a specific objection from my fellow Members. So if a ministerial amendment solves an urgent issue which concerns a local society, society in general, the national economy, we must say that it is because it is an amendment to withdraw?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u9	Another amendment and another 100. If it was one we'd talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u10	I think, Mr President, that there was nothing specific either from the SYRIZA spokesman or from the representative of the Change Movement. I think in time - if you like - there was time to study the content and in any case the capital question is whether issues are resolved if problems are resolved. Don't go to the impressions. To stand up to the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I did not want to speak, but what the New Democracy colleague said is unacceptable. The amendment was tabled last night. Few of us saw it, but even those who saw it, of course, did not have the time to study it. It's not like it solves some issues. That could be done in committee. We had a three-time committee. We could ask for them and solve them. We haven't even been informed. That's right, Mr. Chakalotos said it's not a memorial to bring them in every time, so that's the way. So we are also in favour of the withdrawal of both amendments and of being able to discuss them in a quiet manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u14	The fact of these last-minute amendments is indeed unacceptable. These are legislative amendments on their own. This means that the specific amendments which constitute bills are a separate debate. They are not only ministerial, but also many parliamentary amendments which, if anyone is looking for them, will see that many of them are also photographic. We have here a Armageddon amendment to Members of Parliament and Ministers who come to serve very specific interests. But this practice is not new. And SYRIZA used it before the Change Movement. All parties that have governed follow exactly the same practice. SYRIZA is not exempted because it was during the time of memorials. So for a time of memorials it is right to pass through fast track procedures such amendments, Mr Tsakaloto?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u15	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u16	Like this. But you thought that, in exceptional circumstances, a practice that you followed afterward, which you said that you had come out of the memorials and, of course, that New Democracy, using pandemic, is also followed by acts of legislation, so for nothing, in dt time. That is unacceptable. At least withdraw ministerial amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u18	First of all, I would like to say that the Rules of Procedure are not in breach here. Everything has been done and kept exactly as required by the Rules of Procedure of the House to table a ministerial amendment in a timely manner so that Members can finally be informed. From there on we shall see the essence of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. Has he seen the amendments? Because if you see them, a simple reading to do, you will see that they are very serious and very urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u19	They're very serious, and you brought them at 9:00 at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u20	It's about local communities. You've made Ministers. Here we have two, three former ministers from the Civic Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u21	Have you made a promise that you will only bring energy into the committee? Did you make a promise?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u22	Why are you yelling now? Don't you, Mr. Chakalato, have the dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u23	Did you speak to the committee and say that you would only bring an amendment to energy? Did you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Chakaloto, don't interrupt him. Nobody interrupted you. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, a minister tells the committee that he will only bring about energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u26	I do not understand why you raise your voice about something which is very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u27	But let him talk. For example, I did not hear what the Minister said. Let him talk. None of you interrupted. Well, that's true. You'll have your disagreements. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u28	I really cannot understand why you cannot hear a minute of what I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u29	Because you made a promise and took it back. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u30	Listen to it first and then judge. First you were absent from the committees. You weren't in the committees to hear what I said. The committees are recorded in the Minutes. We have said that we will table some amendments on urgent matters. Take a look. Don't talk without having read. It is not wrong that you have read the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u31	For the procedure, Mr Minister, not on the substance of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u32	I shall conclude, Mr President. Here it says: "Specific conditions for the formation and renewal of the National Sport Centre in Heraklion Crete, facilities for urban waste treatment in municipalities". You've made Minister. You have approved and passed many amendments, both ministerial and parliamentary when you were Minister. Don't forget that. So because you were suddenly in the Opposition, did you forget what you've been doing for five years? So there are too many who have problems, be they from local government, or are from other bodies, and the moment a bill is being discussed in this House is coming last minute and they are trying to find solutions to the problems that exist. Can't we untie them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u34	That is not the case in the Rules of Procedure anymore. You made your location, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u35	Yes, but the Minister says inaccurate. He says I'll check out the Minutes. I have the Minutes here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u36	You'll tell that in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u37	Do you know what he says, Mr. President? 'I will bring amendments to one, two, three issues, mainly for energy'. Two, three issues for energy? Is he making fun of us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u38	Where are the energy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u39	‘Subsequently’. He said it himself, and he doesn't need another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u40	Good. Mr. Bukkaro, please calm down. Five people are in plenary and we do for a hundred and a half. Calm down. First of all, we are not discussing the substance of the amendments. The objections were all on the procedure followed. Take a look, Mr Tsakaloto - this is at my expense, at least age - I see that I have most years in here since 1990. You will allow me to tell you, without accepting it as an alibi - I am making it clear - that we have been in the same spectators' work since 1990. The one thousand objections you put today, we were putting ourselves as a New Democracy when we were Opposition, because you did the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u41	No, Mr President. We don't accept it. We're not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u42	Same thing. I was presiding, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u43	We are not the same, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u44	Maybe you didn't bring. I speak as a party. Same thing. And don't challenge me because next time I'll get you the incidents. I was presided over and I know what I'm telling you. But I said I didn't use it as an alibi. It's not the right way over time. So that is something that we are not going to resolve here today. With your representatives all the parties in the day after tomorrow that we have a Conference of Presidents to raise the matter because that is where it is resolved. It is not resolved by the President-in-Office alone. I have my opinion. And you might have figured it out. Not now. Since 1990 this has been my position unbelievably. From there on, all I can do - because I understand it from the outset - is that rapporteurs, speakers and Parliamentary representatives will have a tolerance of your time because I have understood that seven and a half minutes of the secondary for the entire bill and the amendments might not be enough. I can do this as President-in-Office and do it. We are starting with the rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr Maximos Sedetakis. Here you go, Mr. Sedetakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy has put forward is another link in the chain of important institutional interventions that the New Democracy Government is carrying out in the context of the green transition. A central strategic option for sustainable development, i.e., for which the New Democracy has spoken in election and is implementing post-elections. As far as the environment is concerned, sustainable development is not abstract. It's specific, it's measurable. They are the objectives clearly described in Article 82 of the bill. I think we all agree with the objectives and we all agree that we need to achieve them. However, success is judged on implementation. For this reason, the bill promotes a series of corrective actions and in several cases innovative interventions that improve the operating framework of what is called rational waste management. It promotes a new concept that wants citizens, businesses and local authorities to participate actively with incentives and sanctions in the prevention of waste, in order to increase recycling and reduce landfilling. It strengthens the supervisory and control role of the State. However, a role that does not interfere with the private initiative but allows it to be manifested in a framework of rules so that the profit goes hand in hand with the common benefit. The above-mentioned core guidelines of the bill are distinct as a whole in the first part of where recycling and cyclical economy are produced in key policy tools for rational waste management, the idea that civil society is to be activated is an application to reuse as one of the main waste prevention measures. Prevention requires everyone's participation. Local and civil cooperation is needed. Thus municipalities over twenty thousand will create creative reuse centres, the so-called CIFs. In these organized areas citizens will be able to dispose of used objects of all kinds. These will be classified and corrected in order to be reused. There is also prevention in the creation of food waste, and this requires participation and cooperation. The aim is to reduce by 30% the food waste by 2030 compared with 2022. In order to achieve the goal, citizens are encouraged to become donors and donors. The donation and redistribution of food for human consumption are encouraged. The implementation of the 'paying as far as I fly' system is another provision for cooperation between municipalities and citizens. In this towns they will form municipal fees depending on how much waste they produce and how much each municipality recycles not on the basis of the squares of the property, as was the case until now. The principle will now be applied and the application will be mandatory from 2028. The extension of the guarantee system is another provision encouraging consumer participation. So, as we knew to date with the plastic bottles, now with the aluminium packs and disposable glass bottles, the consumer will return the empty packaging and collect the guarantee fee. The measure will apply from 2023 while it already applies to other European countries such as Spain, Germany and the Scandinavian countries. Separate collection is another provision which obliges municipalities to organise the separate collection of hazardous waste to households on a daily basis either in the shop or in their green spots or in any other licensed area identified by the relevant FOD. By the end of 2022 the municipalities were given the obligation to separate collection and use of bio-waste from large producers. Ladies and gentlemen, these are a few typical cases of civil and self-government participation. Participation with responsibility, however, is also the case for companies. Some people are forced to systematically record food surpluses. Manufacturers or importers of furniture and electrical and electronic equipment shall be obliged to inform the seller of the availability of the necessary spare parts and the buyer shall know that. Producers and importers shall be obliged by 2024 to organise and operate alternative management systems in new waste streams by 2024 at the latest. They should also bear in mind management costs, including their separate collection. For companies involved in the rational management process, anyone who says they are recycled must also document it. It shall not be understood as high-quality recycling without minimum requirements for equipment and specifications for recovered materials. CGAs will now be required to calculate the amount of packaging waste and the other recoverable materials collected separately after sorting by municipality. The specifications of the weighing machines of AKK processing facilities will become more stringent in order to avoid illegal management and to facilitate control. 1-1-2023 requires the installation of an electronic GPS positioning system on all road modes of transport AEK. The audit authorities will also have access to this if required. The AKK collection bags shall be numbered and each container shall be marked with the details of its owner. Large intensive poultry or pig farming units are obliged to drive their livestock waste to biogas or composting plants. All this is done in order to reduce the percentage of waste that goes for landfill from 80%, which is now at 10% in 2030. To this end, it is important to extend and modernise the burial fee. It is intended that burial should be the last solution, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, as a stimulus, as of 1 January 2022, the total urban waste available in landfill will be borne by landfill. At the same time, a clear control and sanctions mechanism is provided for in the event of failure to pay this fee. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are all participating and assisting the country's green transition. We need a better environment as a lever for sustainable development. Of course, that is why we need energy and if possible clean energy. In the second part, therefore, arrangements are introduced for the purchase of energy and provisions to strengthen the energy mix by producing RES. In particular, for electricity transmission and distribution networks, as well as for underground distribution and electricity networks, we have specific forecasts for the construction of renewable energy generation projects. In fact, in many areas of Greece, the road to the installation of stations for the production of clean energy is opened. Especially for Crete will be allowed to produce up to 40 MW. Of these, forty will be in the method of self-production and the remaining hundred energy generation for sale in the network. At the same time, there are arrangements for the corporate transformation of PPC, strengthening the effective functioning of RAE, establishing a market monitoring and surveillance mechanism by RAE, guaranteeing a producer certificate, irresponsible advances and interim payments in the support and development programme of Green Fund SMEs, staff and administration issues of IPTO companies, simplifying organic position coverage at PPC SA. The third part of the bill relates to town and country planning arrangements, interventions to place reception lives Coefficient, which are necessary to start local town planning projects. These are interventions that will put brakes on the off-site construction project and determine land use, construction conditions and protection areas throughout the territory. At the same time, special urban projects may be suspended. The programme will run alongside local urban planning projects in the near future. We believe that these arrangements that follow the S.H.E.'s case-law. They are closer to the establishment of the Digital Bank, which will be a development tool. Ladies and gentlemen, as the environment is common to all of us, and our protection is about all of us, and as growth must be about all of us, and the bet on sustainable development will be won together. The state has an obligation to lay down rules which proportionately share roles in bodies, local government and civil society to win this bet, and this is done by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis with this draft law that I am proposing. The political parties, for their part, also have the obligation to contribute to the joint effort by changing the substance and the quality of political controversy. I fully understand the logic of political controversy, which is institutionally legitimate and democratically required. But it is time to turn it into a means of progress and development, not to maintain it as a means of slowing down and regressing. I would point out that during the debate in the committees, it has become apparent that colleagues from the opposition have not been convinced that this bill represents an important reform, as we claim to be concentrating on a single coherent institutional framework, and most importantly, although it is clearly attempting to activate society as a whole in the process of the cyclical economy in other words, to change the culture of the Greeks on how they will contribute with individual responsibility for environmental protection. In the debate, however, there was nowhere to hear what better we could vote to change the environmental consciousness of the Greeks, which several parties claim they are fighting to succeed. Once again there has been a denial, a tax-free mood and the most counterproductive intentional distortion of meaning, unfortunately, and content of specific articles. What is the aim of such a political attitude is unexplained when Greece produces twice the average European waste, when the energy utilisation of urban solid waste in Europe represents 25% to 30%, while in Greece only 1.5%, when we bury 80% of the waste while we have to be able to bury 10% when we can increase production from RES when the country's climate conditions favour it. Whatever the explanation of this attitude is that the world is moving rapidly. Environmental protection is at the heart of the global debate. Sustainable development is a global bet. Greece cannot keep track of developments, it cannot stay behind. It must run to cover the lost ground. I think that this draft law creates the right institutional framework to cover this lost ground, which is why we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u46	The rapporteur, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, today we have an extreme example of the misdemeanour and insult of the House. In a bill with a misguided title, the incorporation of European directives first of all into committees entered as urgent provisions other than two and a half bills, natural environment, forestry policy, spatial planning, energy policy. The main features of the first provisions that have entered the committees in addition to the consultation were the sale of public property and the services of the other parties. We have also told you in the committees, I think you deserve the title after the amendments you have put, Mr Ministers, you are making the science of the Ministry of the Environment. Because otherwise the bill is unfortunately unscientific and anachronistic. Greece is taking many steps back both in environmental policy and recycling and in the issues of spatial planning and energy. And in order to be consistent with this inconsistency of Parliament's procedure with an unacceptable procedure last night, you are tabling three amendments so far, because we do not know what else you intend to do. And we want your commitment. Mr President, we would like to know whether the government will bring further amendments. But be careful what we've got so far. We have 14 articles, one bill, yet for spatial planning provisions that abdicate the law of the Mitsotakis government on out-of-plan construction. Secondly, another bill with six provisions amending the property relationship in the woodlands. And thirdly, an amendment by the Ministry of Shipping which circumvents a decision of the Council of State. Here, then, we see that this is done without consultation, without the knowledge of the scientific community, because you very simply despised society and democratic processes, you write democracy in the oldest of your shoes. And in this bill, I think it's worth a title. This bill is humiliating the state, at least what is called you, because unfortunately the words have lost their meaning to you that we are in trouble. The ultimate state is clearly an authoritarian anti-democratic function of a power without respect for citizens to reproduce political and economic power. It is clear to us that you are doing everything for the chairs, for a family and opportune alliance of people who have no sacred and loyal and we are seeing this also at the expense of the environment of Greece. You are a dangerous government, and we are unfortunately paying for this in both pandemic and economic matters. One element of aggression, first I vote for it - I vote for it. Consider how many central legislative initiatives of your Government change this bill and cancel. First, the timetable for the Special Urban Plan for Eye, you promised it since 1920, now go to '22, another two years of extension. The process of liberating the RES, great announcements by Mr Hatzidakis, you are now boning it. The monitoring of the energy market, you promised free market and cheap prices, you are now forced to run behind developments. The new Building Regulation that you changed in 2021, you're re-changing it. The Electronic Building Identity that is applied and you have announced it for January 1st, you are postponing it. Your own spatial legislation of Law 4759 and the amendments further abolish the rules of the off-project. The institutional framework for the natural environment and the OFEKA, the provisions on disposable plastics. Everything changes in this bill. But let's go a little bit to that. We have the incorporation of two Directives 851, 852. Firstly, Greece has already been delayed a year because of you and we have received a reasoned opinion, namely a threat of a fine by the European Union. Although you posted it twice in the consultation - take note now of the odds - in '20 and '21 are delaying it for what reason? To settle ruffles. We're seeing them. Until the last minute you're trying to do it. And you have exactly the opposite provisions through what is required for Greece to go forward. In fact, I had the honour of the Deputy Minister at that time and I represented Greece at the Council of Ministers on this matter and we talked about it. First, what are you doing? You are limiting control over the transparency of recycling systems, so the resources provided by citizens and producers are not used and we do not have real recycling. Secondly, although the goals are very demanding, you do not have the political will to support recycling, but only practically to deal with your great rumours that are made there and scandalous supplies set up in the recycling agency, so that Greece goes back further. Thirdly, instead of supporting recycling, you are promoting burning and privatising waste management. You did the same in Mr. Hatzidakis' famous ministries bill. Behind the title of two directives you have put together a series of reactive provisions. But the guards are aware of it, and we've found it all, Mr. Ministers. The bill comes to cover the scandals in the area of recycling and the loss of hundreds of millions of euros of public wealth, the national waste planning, where burning and privatising waste and the loss of self-government powers, so that citizens and municipalities pay a lot of money, because they just somehow have to make the money to support Mr. Mitsotakis' power system. You approved in August 2020, without coming to Parliament, the national planning. Take note, August, of the consultation and decision of the Ministerial Council. While SYRIZA, I remember, in 2015, with memorials hard, we had come to the House twice and the institutions heard. The prevention plan, which is a key waste manager, does not go through with the design. You brought it ten months later, because we reminded you that it's missing. Priority is to privatise, with the result that projects launched with public and European resources retrospectively make them PPPs, apart from the fact that we are still looking to find out where the regional planning of Attica is, while auctioning units that say that their characteristics will be determined subsequently, while the tenders have been started. Of course, the main thing is that you are making a great shift towards burning, and Europe has quite simply made it clear that it does not finance any burning or managing mixeds. But there, you insist on burning. For example, why the Minister asked himself: in Article 20 - take note of where they arrived - while posting the management hierarchy in the consultation on food waste, which obviously does not involve burning, their persistence, and their ideology and, in any case, they lose their contracts and led them to add to the bill on food management burning as an energy method and incineration. I shall be tabling the report, Mr President, on the Minutes, and the draft legislation on how it has changed. Moreover, they come and create a special article in the bill. Why did the Minister ask "Where did you find them?" But we know how to read, Minister. The question is if you know how to read the bills that prepare you. In Article 63, for the first time, they set up a network of waste treatment plants in Greece and take responsibility from the municipalities to make it from the Ministry. So here, clearly, even in food, the atheophobics have put burning as a method of management to understand ideoscopy and obsession. But we're going on. What else do we have? Scandal issues in the recycling area. They adopted an operational plan for the recycling company, which has left the municipalities two years without equipment and why they did not set the criteria the legislated criterion of ecodesign of products - whatever it is more ecologically ending. They didn't put it in a law-enforcement test. The top scandal is that they are politically approving an operational plan of return recycling, which services in a hundred pages estimate it does not catch the targets of recycling. Indeed, for national planning and recycling too, they receive the strong condemnation of non-governmental organisations. ‘GREENPEACE’, ‘WWF’, ‘Environmental Recycling Company’ denounced the national design and resigned from the Board of the Recycling Agency. I will submit to the minutes the resignation of the organizations and the two announcements of the organisations: 'The mistake of the Ministerial Council to approve the new ECHR' and 'the ECHR is promoting the burning in Greece without delay'. Now it's obvious that with the bill you're completing the crime. You take the responsibility of burning the Ministry of the Environment and obviously refer control of the systems to the five-year period, so that you can settle the scandals you make in the EEAN never face up to. Even BSE came and said to the committee that we needed stricter conditions for the withdrawal of licences, because you very simply, Mr Screka, have made graceful provisions on recycling systems. Eventually, the result is what it is? The municipalities don't have any equipment. We're not sorting the source in legislation. We do not have the opportunity to move forward with our homeland and professionals and tourism and recreation and municipalities. The new fashion is photographic notices. They do not reach the scandals, but then come, because they now find the route, and make photographic statements to the "Antonis Tritchis" programme, in the works of the Attica Association, the EDN, for equipment that the systems had to provide for free. And we reach a mammoth competition of hundreds of millions in EDNA, which fortunately comes the Court of Auditors and part of it cancels. What else has the government done to this day? It does not implement the pricing policy that motivated recycling, the law of SYRIZA. It abolishes the circular economy levy and introduces the burial tax. It has great opacity for how to manage the burial tax revenues, which it also gives to the EEAN. It has problematic provisions on excavation waste for large projects that export them from alternative management. It goes backwards as far as the food waste objective is concerned, even from the UN's objectives backwards. It's been freezing the problem of the plastic bag, and it's had 20 million indisposedly to EAN for two years, which is the money of the citizens from the plastic bag. It makes foot arrangements for "pay as far as I fly", which does not apply between the municipalities and as far as hotel facilities are concerned. It reverses the ecodesign criterion that we have legislated and has done so a little more than always. It gives a new extension to the separate collection of four streams, key to recycling. It freezes the separate collection of biowaste and it has been legislated since 2018. And even in disposable plastics it amends its own provisions. Mayor Vari - Voula - Vouliagmeni, representing the CEDC, comes to the committee representing the CEDC and says: "We are returning to a model that has failed from the past, which the municipality is garbagey, which is simply paying. It is called upon to pay huge burial fees and also the country's fines to the European Union, without having any effective control over the design and management options. As a result, it will eventually be the rather failure of the targets adopted by the design and the guidelines for recycling, as will the re-sure defamation of the country, the municipalities, the regions and the Ministry to decide for the municipalities and to be the ones who will simply pay the choices." Ladies and gentlemen, sorting at source and recycling is a local case. It is, however, the responsibility of the state to provide the municipalities with the necessary tools to respond. You guys are doing exactly the opposite. Only the term ‘modernisation’ of the Recycling Agency can be termed ‘modernisation’. You are now putting the Recycling Agency, in addition to scandalous approvals, involved in matters that are not its subject, such as the management of hundreds of millions, from what it sounds, in the burial tax. You'll tell me, you're right. What are we waiting for? Don't worry about managing the money? That's probably all you're interested in. The Recycling Agency, therefore, is the organisation that I told you, has over two years 20 million of the programme of plastic bags that do not bring to citizens, while they are their own money, which licenses a recycling system that does not take on the targets, while the services have a negative recommendation, which, while this system accuses the staff of the Recycling Agency and the CEO of being a criminal organisation, nonetheless, the president of the body approves by a political recommendation the authorisation of this system. And in return, we see that we have up to the retroactive fees of the chairman of the board of directors with a decision that we found in the FEK. You put private auditors, because of the twenty-five staff you have reached ten, and by way of derogation from Law 4412 you also have this staff involved in the competition committees. And this body will give 100 million a year the burial tax to manage? Your arrangements for EEAN are simple that they continue the corrupt waste management system in the country where you are now part of it. In the provisions on forestry legislation now we see a loophole. Now, for the first time we have unauthorized projects in the forests. We also see many amendments. We will come back to them. For the property of the public in the forests, we'll control them. You continue the work of abolishing the agencies - to say it - while introducing arrangements for the manipulation of decisions in protected areas and allowing the Ministry to make contracts with the Ministry to carry out projects of the Ministry. Strange things. But the most nice thing is that in your own body you have built for the natural environment you remove biodiversity conservation. Even that scares you? However, I have to say that the amendments because they are unacceptable both to the issues of non-building and to the issues of the forestry environment, although we have made a commitment to put it next, all that needs to be done as the first political move is to withdraw. The House cannot be exposed to such a debate and we can also attack the citizens and society, and why bodies and scientists have not said what they think. It's very tragic and dangerous what you're doing. After all, in the field of spatial planning, we have given our opinion to the committees. The government and the ministry are making the science ruffel in this bill. There are too many cases involved. The build-up factors are increasing. The base? There is an article that enables the design to be undone. It says that where there is regional planning or locality with a special urban plan, even for a unit, that is, for a building, you can take out your own construction terms and uses of land. This is the'spot dogs', and in fact, you come to Eye for example and you give another year to the study that has already been delayed a year after the Prime Minister's announcement that 2020 will be ready. This was not even done in the EPE period. Article 129 calls again without consultation for the separation of PPC DEDDI to sell the electricity distribution network without any Memorandum Requirement. So an important tool for Greece's energy transition, which has a certain income, is sold to a private person, while at the same time you are selling to a private and the whole natural gas network. You create a monopoly throughout Greece to manage an energy asset. It is now understandable to everyone that your pursuit is to sell everything out. It's understandable to all of us that it's all about getting you out as soon as possible so you don't sell everything. You come with Article 135 and you are creating a posteriori energy market monitoring mechanism, while you have been tolerated for eight months, while you have tolerated shameful speculation, while you have tolerated manipulation of electricity prices with the PPC partner - we have warned you about the oversight deficit, we have warned you of all this - and last month, our country is the first to be more expensive in Greece in the energy market. Your choices have already cost hundreds of millions of euros both in the economy and in society. The main problem is, however, that two-thirds of citizens cannot, on your own responsibility, pay the electricity bill. Preciousness and bitterness have the signature 'New Democracy - Mr Mitsotakis'. By introducing the guarantee to renewable energy sources, you are the law of Hatzidakis to liberate the RES and confirm that you have caused short circuits and overheating in the RES, i.e. a minefield. Local societies are all rebels. Investors say - wherever they come from, because there are many air-planes inside the system - wherever the installation of projects and the map of the Energy Regulatory Authority is filled with projects that you admit will not be implemented. You have delayed the spatial planning plan for the RES, you have delayed the specific environmental studies that have started on SYRIZA, so you have to drug yourself the energy transition and green energy in Greece. All the above that I have described to you, they dismiss whatever positive provisions the bill has in it. There are measures in the directives that are serious. But we have then worked it out in the Council of Ministers, representing our country, as Greece. There are measures that are of interest to us: for reuse centres, incentives to upgrade recyclable material sorting centres, schools issues, separate collection, geodetecting of vehicles, electronic commerce and licensing interface with the Electronic Waste Register, which we have triggered as government. However, all this is lost because the basics you are doing, in addition to the tragicity of the non-consultation of legislation and the procedure for the amendments, are to settle, with one, unfortunately, unsuccessful smokescreen, criminal provisions for both the environment and for recycling and for public property. We disagree with the substance of your policy that has been tabled in the bill and all that you serve secretly and clearly with this bill. This policy, Mr President, is not just a pro-environmental or green. If you want a title, this policy and this government are dangerous, and that is why it must be overturned for the good of Greek society and for the good of the Greek environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u48	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Georgios Arvanitidis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with today's bill and the procedures followed, I think you are entitled to Oscar for tacticalism and bad legislature. Of course, you don't just remember your old self. These practices are your culture, they exist in your DNA. A permanent feature of the government's bad legislative practice is the lack of consultation, the breaking of bills, last-minute amendments, quick procedures. And we think that this acquits everyone, saying that "we, others did the same." The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has used the argument. What haven't we figured out? SYRIZA has therefore denounced the old political system for these practices, for the last minute's amendments. He did the same. And what does that mean? That we're going to continue this way? Didn't we understand 'or change or sink'? You're passing it. But can this country continue to go on with the same practices? Do we have any results? And, of course, the rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke of individual responsibility to be built on recycling. How will political responsibility be built? The relationship of confidence in policy towards the citizens how will it be built? Isn't that the credibility? We wonder why the citizens are not listening to the Government's misgivings about vaccination, about anything. But these are the problems that no one believes. And we call it 'batch' themselves here, that everyone did the same - and so did the previous ones - and we go. So this bill, as quickly as possible with these procedures and regularizations, has been discussed in the House, unfortunately another as soon as it will be forgotten. We have before us yet another inapplicable law, apart from the amendments which are the bill and the results which will produce and many times 'opened up'. We've seen them in the Criminal Code and other options. They're known tactics. We will therefore still have an inappropriate law, because you are late to incorporate two European directives and you are setting very ambitious and inappropriate targets. Here the majority rapporteur must tell us this, why did he wonder, "One, we have set high recycling targets": Can you tell us what will be the rate? Next year, not in 2025, probably in these benches, there will be others sitting. Next year, next year. So put the targets every year and come to measure them to see what we have achieved, not just for criticism, but to correct policies. You are therefore introducing a number of obligations to the municipalities - financial penalties if they do not comply - which are doubtful whether they have the means, how to achieve these objectives. Finally, your two-year government policy on energy, planning and natural environment continued. At last, therefore, a consistent and clear market rules that you have built up in the election campaign that are the paths of our political system. And will anyone ask: do you not want - the opposition - to move recycling forward in the country? Now be serious. Of course, we want it to go ahead, and it is necessary that the country should be obliged to do so. These are the changes we need to make after the pandemic, the climate crisis. But what rules? What assessment of our course so far? What social and economic accountability in the control of recycling systems? There isn't! Let's face it and build a system that has these features. What support of the municipalities, by what means, with what resources, with what resources? What preparation for the use of recyclable material in domestic production? We will therefore have better results in terms of material recovery. Who's gonna process them? Exports to China, to other markets? None of what I said before is described in this bill. You just set targets, x -large goals, nice narratives and municipalities chasing these goals. You also have them buying equipment with public money, Greek taxpayers or the resources that the country will have - this equipment should be provided with recycling systems - and all good. 'We have legislated', 'we have set targets', 'here we are', 'we have done our duty', 'we have incorporated European directives', 'we have completed'. All good, then, in words! But that, ladies and gentlemen, is that type, that is not the essence. It is not the essence of passing two directives with targets for recycling by 2035 and saying that we will introduce new separate collection currents. The point is that the government should tell us which, in the end, will end up with all this recycled material, how a new, sustainable sector will be built up in the Greek economy - productive sector - with the appropriate reception and processing infrastructure and what it is doing to get these infrastructures. The point is that the government should tell us what added value the transferring of significant resources from the Recovery Fund to recycling issues leaves the country. Are you simply interested in showing the absorption of European funds? The substance is to have rules and to ensure that they are effectively respected. The substance is to function and not to fail or misoperate recycling systems. The point is to really recycle papers and not recycle papers. The formula is to expect us to climb from the twenty that we are today in fifty-five only four years, in 2025, and sixty in 2030. Suddenly doubled, triple? Let's get as many as we want! The point is to know where the material is going, how and with what purpose we will recycle it. So in this race and in the bracelet de ferry type and in substance note 1. Ace dry in favour of the press is the result of this bill. The substance still remains and will remain a demand for a great question, how. As the questions about the bad texts still remain in the EEAN and the extremely problematic situation in the systems of collective alternative management. Our whole parliamentary group has tabled a question and an application since December 2020, which unfortunately still remains unanswered. Amongst but we have asked that a series of data relating to authorisations, obligations and fines imposed by the EEAN be submitted to all systems of collective alternative management. Unfortunately, no response to all of this has been received from neither the Ministry of the Interior nor from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. We will insist on asking for the evaluation and presentation of the results of all these recycling systems. Of course we will insist on asking why you are laying the ground for the incineration of waste and the establishment of a network of waste recovery plants provided for in Article 63, even giving all the relevant responsibilities to the Minister for the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment. It is obvious that by promoting the incineration of waste you are putting obstacles in trying to sort with separate currents, you are pulling the carpet under foot to prevent, reuse and recycling. You are undermining the objectives laid down by the European directives, which we are now called upon to incorporate into national law. We honestly do not understand the usefulness of a network of three, four, five power-users of waste, the technical details of which will be defined by the Minister. You are proud to close the last two, three lignite plants in 2023 and on the other hand you want to open two, three waste incineration plants across Greece for the start. Modern authorities in the cyclical economy are now making anachronistic combustion other than minimum final residues that could be made available to industry. There is a need for this. That is why they are no longer financed from European funds. In relation to the system "pay as I fly" he mentioned in the audience of the bodies that only the municipality of Voula - Varis - Vouliagmenos will be able to implement it. In practice, this system means that from the bin of every neighborhood or building block we will go into the bin of each household. An objective way should be developed to calculate the weight of the waste per barrel of each property. And technologies may have developed and operated abroad, but it will need a huge public information campaign for what this means for their pockets and how it will be applied in the city, the neighborhood, in their homes. With regard to the regulations on the natural environment relating to the FYROM, we regret to note that the provisions which come do not resolve key outstanding issues for the preservation of protected areas. We have proposed to you the development of a system of regional protection based on the 'diaNEOsis' study. Mr. Hatzidakis preferred the hydrocephalus OFFYPEKA who is still under recommendation. And before that, OPHPEKA is well established, you are changing its operating framework. Excellent things, big programming, big goals! As you are also amending newly adopted laws on town and country planning, and I know the amendment that one has to study in order to understand exactly what you are proposing. The main objective of the town and country planning provisions of the bill with the changes in Law 4759 is the intensity of land exploitation and, unfortunately, the premium for land owners and investors. Building up in urban centres and increasing the density of towns by new arrangements for the creation of factories. An area with four-storey multi-storey buildings with no particular residential character can therefore be converted into a means of transport for building in an urban area with exterior multi-storey buildings. For example here in Athens, Kysili or Patisia where it needs renewal of building potential and urban upgrading and regeneration. The Scientific Council of Parliament, in fact, raises objections to the regulation you bring to Article 119 and proposes specific changes and additions. Will you accept them, Minister? It is also apparent that special town planning projects normally bypassing local town planning projects only in specific cases are beginning to become a system and a rule to strengthen and take advantage of specific town planning projects and should constitute a derogation from urban planning. At the same time, we see that last year's communication show of the Prime Minister and the Government in Eye gives its place in the extension for one year until 23 July 2022 of the delivery of the special urban plan for the regions of eastern Attica affected by the events in 2018 and the TEI that had undertaken the study to put the blame behind this transfer and delay. What exactly is going on? You have to explain whatever problems you are facing, you must publicly tell us what it is that creates these delays. And I am now coming to energy regulations. Of course we disagree with the policy of privatising the TEN you have chosen. And we are not going to vote on any provision that takes another step in this direction. However, I would like to focus more on the provision on guarantee schemes for new photovoltaic licences in areas with a saturated network such as the Peloponnese, Crete, Evia, the Cyclades islands. There are injustices and we have also asked for an amendment tabled by our parliamentary group, Mr Kegeroglu, to make corrections. Offences both in relation to the guarantee increase of 100% in these areas in relation to the rest of the network of the territory, resulting in the amount of the guarantee from EUR 16,800 doubled to EUR 33,600 per MW almost touching the 35,000 euros that the big players are required to pay per MW. But injustices and in relation to energy communities and their members. We do not share these choices and all else these choices are steps towards energy democracy. We urge you once again, Minister, to see these injustices and to correct them. And if you do not bring about changes, then you will once again lead the photovoltaics market to large investors rather than small and medium-sized ones and small ones as you say you do. I hope you bring me some legislative improvements at the last minute. And we certainly expect what you have announced, the new legislative framework for the energy communities, as we expect to receive answers to a number of proposals that we have tabled, and proposals for the existence of a relative provision of provision in local town plans, to increase the green per capita index in Greek cities. Here you could put measurable targets to increase green in the Greek cities, in our neighborhoods. Also, proposals to bring undeclared and unknown property to the municipalities of the country and not to the public for social residence, for the restoration of immovable persons. Proposals to reduce VAT on services and products related to recycling to 6%. Proposals to make 1-1-2022 mandatory the electronic identity of a building. The extension given is not an extension of three months but an extension of only one month. I think it is a matter which, if we come here again to extend, then we are serving - what I keep saying - the crisis of citizens' confidence, that at the end of the day something will be done and an extension will be given. We're doing it in tax statements. Further proposals to exclude small hydroelectric power plants and biogas plants from the obligation to deposit a guarantee letter. Proposals to allow schools if they want to make extra currents beyond three, paper, food and batteries laid down in Article 27. I should like to make a reference - and I will keep saying that to make it clear what policies we are pursuing - regarding the great account of the Recovery Fund, this green project. I have told you to the committees - and I say to the plenary on registration - that if we look at the comparative data on the recovery plans of the other Member States that have been submitted to the Commission for financing from the Recovery Fund, it will find that the New Democracy Government cannot be forged as or in the greener government by means of the excellent plan. It cannot promote, as a green development, the channelling to the green transition of 37% of the available resources for the Recovery Fund for Greece, while I told you that Slovakia is channelling 42% of Austria's 59%, Luxembourg in 61%, Denmark 59% and saying so. And as I've told you before, it's not just personal, but it's qualitative. In other words, it is a substance and not just a formula for the percentage and target of absorption. It is the question of what added value these fundings bring, what production they are shaping in our place. I would stress the question that the announcement of the largest of the approved works announced and received the green light from the Recovery Fund, which concerns the digitisation of the mortgage records. You reached it at 242.4 million. In 2016 the study indicated that it was 90 million. What's changed? Tell us it's increased from 90 to 240, because it's going to be him and him, so there's a rival. Otherwise how is it possible for a project in 2016 to cost 90 and now cost 240? Ladies and gentlemen, before submitting this bill to us, the government should finally present us with an assessment of all recycling systems and all the designs of every level, national, regional and local. He didn't. The government, instead of the guys, should have seen the essence of recycling. He didn't. I fear that this bill has a punishing direction towards the municipalities that will not catch the targets. They're gonna be the ones to blame for the end. In the Movement of Change we say 'yes' to recycling, but 'no' to the burning of waste and the unreasonable burden of the people. We insist that a waste management policy should prioritise the prevention, reuse, recycling and not burning, it should be combined with citizens in order to ensure public health, environmental protection, but ultimately to improve the quality of life of citizens, to take advantage of the recent, not old, European experience and technology in order to achieve the best environmental and economic result, but to set specific, realistic objectives, with guaranteed resources and binding timetables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. I would like to remind you that there will be an interruption, on the basis of the programme and the unanimous decision in the Conference of Presidents, at 11.55 a.m. to initiate the procedure for the waiver of immunity by Mr Bogdanou at 12.00 a.m. I think it'll last for at least an hour. The floor will be taken by Mr. Synthesias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. For the Communist Party of Greece, the acute problem of waste management is added to the other major problems of health, education, unemployment, wage slavery, the abolition of social, labour, democratic rights of our people. And we say this because waste management is currently a serious threat to public health, as well as to the health and safety of workers in cleanliness. These are factors of the continuous deterioration of the environment and of the quality of life, which will deteriorate even further with the increased methods of imposing hazardous environmental and combustion health. It is a point of attracting the large capital for so-called ‘green investment’, which is always based on maximising its profits and not on satisfying people's needs. It is an opportunity and an area of trade and expansion of privatization in this area. In this sense, the management of waste has always been, in particular today, another area of generalized collection, with further bleeding of the people's income in the name of 'pay as I fly', the most extreme version of 'polluter pays', worse than the logic of the capital tax with various fees, such as the special burial fee. The green development that the Government of New Democracy is advertising as a strategic direction for the European Union and for which, not only do SYRIZA and other urban parties, since it agrees with all the European Waste Management Directives, such as Directive 2008/98 on waste and Directive 1994/62 and their related amendments, which have also been voted on in the European Parliament, but which choose, as bad mothers, to say so, to fight for which of the two, New Democracy and SYRIZA can best serve the needs and requirements of capital, to guarantee the profitability of business groups in this area as well. To this end, the whole of their proposals, including the New Democracy and SYRIZA, constitute credentials to the Association of Greek Industrialists and the European Union's lupus alliance for their intention from a majority position for all kinds of privileges and facilities, but which are prejudicial to people's needs at every step. What exactly does this bill advocate to the industry themselves in the letter that they sent to the Committee on Production and Trade, that everything that includes, it says, is at the heart of the priorities for the green economy, in line with developments at European and international level for a modern, resource-efficient, competitive and inclusive economy. I think the extra words are superfluous. The bill, in particular, provides, firstly, for the activation of the anti-popular characters that SYRIZA had anticipated with the NRA, the National Plan for Waste Management, that is, in 2015 with the well-known slogan "pay as I fly", which will only apply to municipal waste, while complex tourist accommodation, the main hotel accommodation above 100 beds and industrial facilities will be drastically reduced and will be exempted from the current method of calculating the compensation fees. The most famous burial fee in municipal waste, another raisin on the back of the municipalities, which from 20 euros to 2022 will be paved to 55 euros. Here we are talking about a real robbery, which will be attributed through the NGOs to a special account of the National Recycling Agency, a body which is evolving into a tax collector of burial character, other fees and contributions, which are either indirectly or directly borne by the people's layers, as well as to an administrative Danish - verifier of the municipalities and the FEOs. Municipalities from 1-1-2022, upgraded by the Material Selection and Recycling Centres, also bear the costs of processing residues, these CIDs, either through waste treatment plants or through combustion plants. In addition, municipalities with more than twenty thousand inhabitants, apart from green points, are required to create new buildings by 2023, so-called Creative Material Reuse Centres, to accept used items of all kinds, electronic and electrical equipment, toys, furniture, bicycles, books and so on. They will be located in areas with uses of general residence, and town centre and productive activities, on plots up to four hundred meters, and all of course with money from the municipalities, i.e. citizens. Secondly, the draft law provides for new incentives and tax exemptions for capital through donations and subsidies from the owners of CIDs for the modernisation, allegedly, of their facilities with the account to go to popular households. Thirdly, it renames combustion plants to energy utilization plants, as it wants to baptise them, in an effort to speed up the profitable for their capital implementation. Of course, the operation and maintenance of these units is subject to the responsibilities of FVO, but it means simply Greek that the company operating the plant will be paid by the FVO, i.e. by its municipalities - members, i.e. by the local households. Fourthly, however, which is not eaten by anything, is the misery in Article 20 of paragraph 2C, which provides for the encouragement of donation and the redistribution of food predominant to human consumption as feed and for the reprocessing of non-food products. And the shame here is red. Fifthly, every measure in this draft law, with specific commitments and restrictions on the immunity of industrial capital, is also lacking in this draft law to pollute its hazardous waste. On the other hand, it adds provisions that facilitate its immunity, such as derogations and heretics, so as to be allowed instead of prohibiting the mixing of hazardous waste. The provision of Article 227 of the SYRIZA, the SYRIZA Act, which allows the acceptability of hazardous waste to be used in the PVCs, is maintained. Sixth, medium and large-sized CIDs are not only upgraded mechanically, but are integrated into the recovered materials and the RDF SRF. This entails an increase in the operational expenditure of the NGAAs to be seconded by the people's households. Seven, well-known green spots are renamed, he says, at angles of recycling. They will now plant everywhere even in traditional settlements. It will be collected from edible fats and oils, from waste electronic equipment to waste portable batteries and other hazardous materials. It is clear that these uses, which come to understand free spaces valuable to the quality of life of the people and young people living in densely structured urban centres, will further exacerbate their living conditions. Eighth, the principle that it defined that the GDP version, i.e. the approvals of environmental conditions, was reversed for waste treatment projects, prescribes any other operation of the management in relation to their implementation. The only condition now is for GDP to be taken before the start of operations, i.e. after the tendering process and the completion of the award procedure. In essence, this whole procedure for the adoption of environmental conditions will be able to be carried out by the project contractor himself, thereby enabling it to retrospectively change the key elements of the tender documents, even to undertake itself through the relevant environmental impact study. Of all the above, it is uncertain that the bill serves pro-monopoly pursuits, namely the commercialisation of waste by means of a complete delivery of the processing sector and, indeed, the method of carcinogenic combustion, recycling and disposal of waste in the large capital. As a front for making these objectives more conscientious, the government shows the need to modernise and improve the waste management framework, the greatest recycling to protect the environment. Not at all. The core of this task is to highlight waste as a resource capable of providing through its management and the use of new technologies the necessary profit rate for funds that are untreated, and then to be the raw material for the most profitable activity of other sectors of the capitalist economy. You say falsely and misleadingly in the explanatory statement that the introduction of an integrated waste management framework will make it possible to adapt to the requirements of the circular economy. Of course, the cyclical economy is adopted and you are all propagandaing it as a saving solution for the environment. Incidentally, the European Union is forcing it and the industrialists are looking for it. But what is the truth, which all of you diligently hide? That with the cyclical economy you are trying to make green business more vulnerable to the people, to gain greater profits for the green business corporations of the industry, to feed the various industries with cheap alternatives, you call them raw materials and fuels, through the burning of energy from the treatment of urban waste and waste from industries, but at the expense of the environment and the health of our people. The road opens wide open to the combustion of waste fuel RDF - SRF together with residues from the treatment plants of mixed waste. The main thing, it seems, is the reuse of useful waste and the disappearance of waste at the least cost - burning, that is - resulting in disastrous consequences for public health and the environment. Both sides, of course, are a huge source of profits for the monopolistic groups. The incineration of waste so far is already being used by the cement industry AGET to produce energy in accordance with the institutional framework established by previous governments since 2012 and then enriched by SYRIZA. Seventeen new facilities are provided in West Attiki, Patras, Volos, Lamia, Evro, Lesvos, Chalkida, Larissa, Heraklion, Agrinio, Sitia, Hersonissos Crete, Mykonos, Fokida, Andros, Tinos, Kefalonia. The so-called compensatory benefits that the government eats and the lures of companies in the form of sponsorship from the construction of sports facilities to the renovations of schools and goes by saying it is the cheese in the light of the fact that they buy the popular conscience and preserve the tolerance of the world to the crime they commit. In the same design, of course, it is also the energy use of the Gender dump, which scatters cancer in the western Attica, namely the choice of the incineration of the waste already announced by the District Director of Attica. Of course, what they do not dare to lick or diligently hide both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA, government and opposition personnel, reveals them without commotion the staff of the European Union. In the case of waste, the Commissioner for the Environment said years ago in a magazine that there is, in fact, gold. "Our goal is to move towards a circular economy and to make use of business opportunities by ensuring access to the materials needed by industries, creating new jobs and economic growth." Capital is the first to see waste as a commodity. The waste may seem unnecessary for their producer, but it is not useless. They can reinvest in the economy. Not of course because the pain for health and the environment has caught them, but because it is a profitable sector for business groups. So the problem that the institutions of the European Union want to solve on behalf of business groups in the industry is how the exploitation of waste will bring uneven profits. And the European Commission has estimated that since 2013 total waste production in the European Union has amounted to 2.5 billion tonnes of which 1,6 billion tonnes have not been reused or recycled and have therefore been lost as a profitable exploitation for business groups. On the basis of the above, we consider that the vote in principle, but also against all the articles of the draft law, is given by the Communist Party of Greece. In the case of waste and, in general, the environment, there have been two quite different concepts that conflict with each other and are particularly obvious. Otherwise, the issue of waste management is understood by the world of hardship and work and in a completely different way behaves against it with the policies implemented by the sovereign forces, the multinational capital, the European Union, your governments and expressing a whole system, what you are serving. The first, more and more, realize that what is called the environment, that is, the immediate and the wider area where they work, they dream, they need special attention and care, they need their help to defend it, to protect it and upgrade it. The second, which despite occasional reassurances and commitments, reveals in their actions that the environment is nothing more for them than the source - nothing but inexhaustible - relief and confiscation of natural resources. It is known to those who are following our positions that the criticism of the JRC is not opportune and is not dictated by any circumstances, it is not mutated by obeying micro-party benefits in the ordinary practice of the other parties. It is stepping hard on our overall view, our party, about the organization of society. It is clear to us that waste is managed on the basis of how to protect the environment, health, and how to satisfy people and protect people's income and people's income can only be done in the context of another radically different development path. This development path, however, presupposes other power, another economy. It will abolish the causes of today's problems, and these are no more preconditions for the central planning, the single state building body, which will implement projects that will satisfy combined modern folk needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Symphony, pick it up a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u53	I'm picking it up as much as the rest of us have, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u54	The rest of the two didn't exhaust their time. Both that passed him were seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u55	Okay, if you think one minute is what...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u56	Go on, just...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u57	... puts obstacles to the overall process, to stop here and say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u58	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u59	All right, I will have the opportunity to say much more about the JRC's proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u60	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u61	I repeat that the JRC is voting against both the principle and the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr Velopoulos has asked for the floor. Since I have been informed, Mr President, that you have a really urgent task, I accept the closure of the flow. Because that is not right to colleagues. But what I cannot do otherwise is time. You'll be consistent in the 15th minutes of your time because they'll be waiting outside for a hundred and twenty colleagues to get in to vote. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by referring to the big business called recycling. One billion euros. That's a huge business. You know, it's not bad to do business, it's bad to legislate a government to do business for businessmen. This has been the problem in the Greek political scene for decades, where elite and the fewer people have been at ease by the legitimate way to do what they want. What the government doesn't tell us here is the most important. First of all, what is going on with the materials? Because this legislation allows installation on forest land even wind turbines. This poor windshield thing really surprises me, and I'm saying it insanely. I was never able to understand why Greece should be filled with wind turbines to win billions of euros. We could produce the wind turbines if the government really wanted to help the Greek economy. But that's not what you did either. Mrs Sakellariou, of course, the President of the Republic, in which the Council had previously delivered an opinion. that on burnt land one might put on wind turbines. Estimates indicate that the wind energy industry will produce two hundred and twenty-five thousand tonnes of waste by 2034. Where are you taking this waste? Have you informed the Greek people? You've invested in a huge bubble called green energy and green horses. I'm saying it straight away. Of course, in 2034 many of you won't be here. The Prime Minister may not even exist as a political person, as many have come and left. There will be Greece, there will be Greeks! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Minister isn't here, Mr. Screkas, a sympathetic one. Article 38. No more fuss. Who's paying for it? Who's gonna pay for the ending of the fis? Are you telling us? Article 44. How will private companies treat waste by direct awards or tenders be selected? Article 129 Preparing a rug of PPC. Privatization - says - distribution network. Are you all right? You said here with Mr Hatzidakis that you did what you did to reduce the electricity price. It increased 36% and increased further and forced RAE to intervene. You failed with PPC, you broke into PPC, did you close PPC and let me tell you something? If you really wanted to make wind turbines in our country, "LARCO" shouldn't have been sold out. "LARCO" shouldn't have sold out because basic material to make wind turbines comes from "LARCO". That's why I'm saying something's wrong. Article 110. The prohibition on the disposal of forest land does not apply to renewable energy sources. Tell me, gentlemen, how can you in a dense forest on a mountain if a windmill goes up? Aren't you going to take out the woods to get the big trucks? Won't you unleash the green that is a life lung for an entire region called Greece? What are you legislating here? Because everyone says it's a windmill. They're ten wind turbines on the mountain. To go upstairs, they don't go with helicopters. Fifty meters of propeller. Fifty meters! I'm telling you all this because time is pressing, I could say a lot more, we're going a little bit to the economy. You really made tragic mistakes. I honestly wonder that even the honourable Members of the New Democracy support the terrible policy of the government on economic matters. How do you support them? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The ministers were pleased that they took 16 billion, i.e. 4 billion credits. You insist on rejoicing because you get borrowed. The ministers went out on Twitter and said we got 4 billion when we lost 16 billion in 2020 from the deficit and it looks like 12 billion in the first half of 2021, that is, we are within 16 billion and 12 billion, 36 billion. You took four billion, and you're glad. It's amazing what you're doing. Wrong all the time. The ministers of the New Democracy came out and were happy, because the International Monetary Fund, he says, did a good evaluation. The International Monetary Fund provides for specific things. Development 3.3% this year, launch at 5.4% in 2022 and you're glad. You are pleased, but you do not know in the New Democracy because of this exploration. I'll tell you. At the sale of public property. You sell what's there and that money looks like growth. It's not growth through wealth production. We do not produce products to say that there is real, false development, not investment. Of course, what I have to tell you once again and Mr Villiard has pointed this out to the Greek Parliament many times is that the waste of 41 billion euros on the part of the government with the loans will reach about 70 billion returnables, the borrowings have interest. You get loans, you give the world what you give to friends more, but the interest-rate will go to 70 billion. Who's gonna pay for it? Your kids? What about us? The children and grandchildren of the Greeks. You're bankrupt once more. And I'll tell you this. You will lead Greece once again to the International Monetary Fund through ESM, with much more stringent memorandum. The Greek Solution warns, with the policy of the New Democracy, new memorials come, we predict difficult times and days for the Greeks. And you know where you're going to charge your inability? I'll tell you now. To the pandemic. You'll say it's the pandemic. It is not the pandemic of the cornea, it is the pandemic and the nonsense of the New Democracy's choices, which are non-economic development policies. [[Applause from the ward of the Greek Solution]] The Government expected a positive assessment from the FITCH. I was reading the ministers before they announced. They're coming, the ministers said. On the other hand, however, the situation was disappointing. The economic failure cannot be concealed internationally from a pandemic in which you have failed to do so too, despite the manipulation you have made in the media. The report by the International Monetary Fund - it is something that I was delighted to see - is insisting on the creation of Bad Bank. For over a year and a half now the Greek Solution with specific proposals has told you that Greeks will not lose their homes, so that they will not lose their properties, do a Bad Bank in American selection standards of the '30-40s, when American homes and properties are not lost. You didn't hear us. And it comes years later, the IMF confirms the integrated program of the Greek Solution, four hundred pages. Bad Bank to save the houses of the Greeks. No house arrest. There's no other way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And to understand what mistakes you make with your investors, in this country called Greece, unfortunately, all the investors are state-owned. They haven't left a stand that doesn't control it until a refinery. From a needle, up to anything produced in the country is controlled by the fewer, five, six stateless. Latsis gave 915m euros to buy the Greek. LAMDA has already sold 700 million apartments. From the loans from Greek banks and bonds, it took 2.6 billion. Such business only takes African countries. Only in African countries are these colonial business you agreed to and the Change Movement and SYRIZA and the New Democracy, because you are exactly the same and you have nothing different! And that's why, as the JRC says - it came to our line - you'll collide after the elections. The tripartite real government is coming from the Germans. Mistakes in the economy. Focus grants, programme chapter 330 million. Don't come back. Initiation of proceedings: 14 May. Up to now only four hundred applications of thirty thousand have been subsidized by seven and a half million, only in the focus. Questions: What criteria are being chosen by firms? With parties? What's the reason for the delays? And we can draw conclusions. An unfair competition has been created between those who received the subsidy and those who are still disbursed. The programme that is a working capital is being delayed. That means the focus will be destroyed. Despite the tragic mistakes you make daily with the pandemic and have accumulated and debts in business, the focus will be destroyed. Six hundred thousand workers will get into unemployment with the sad mistakes you make. Families will be hungry, people won't really have where the head of a bed. Wrong with direct assignments. In sixteen months, the New Democracy Government gave two billion directly commissions. Two billion euros directly outsourced to friends and friends. Since March 2021, with L.4782, the ceiling for contracts for 200% has been increased. Especially to illegal immigrants, what billions are given to friends and friends! Only the feeding of illegal immigrants who are four companies in Greece is 1 billion euros, when the Greek is hungry. And you're giving it up. For goods and services contracts and studies 50% increase in direct award. You're not government. You really aren't government. There can be no direct assignments. Example of your wrong choices - and I want the New Democracy MPs who also do well, because they are not concerned with the pain of businessmen - is "SKY EXPRESS", is "AEGEAN", but it is "ELLINAIR", which even now has not taken 9 million because it is a company from northern Greece. You do not want to give 9m euros to an airline company North Helladic, jewelry for northern Greece, which connects northern Greece with southern Greece. And I wonder why. You're making another crime. A lot of hotels are mortgaged. Many hotels across Greece have loans. The strangers will come here and scan it all, they'll get it short-term. I'm learning that political people also go with businessmen in Paros and steal hotels that go bankrupt and are not embarrassed. Politicians go with businessmen why? I'll tell you straight away. You closed Mykonos. You'll close Paro. You'll be closing down a lot of tourist sites. Do you know what that means? That they will also close hotels in Halkidiki, will be closed in Macedonia and will be cut off by some. You make huge mistakes. I'll tell you. There's an earthquake coming. There's a global recession coming. She'll be unprecedented. That seems to be what the UN is worried about. Unemployment, inflation will blow. There will be deficiencies in key types of first need, there will be a food crisis. I have been saying this for too long, there will be shortages of food. It shows us the way, therefore, of protecting the primary sector: agricultural economy, livestock, fisheries must be supported to feed our children. The so - called globalization that you serve all parties turned countries into debt colonies mainly from the north to the south. He destroyed healthy operations. It led to poverty, workers. Lead to unemployment. All this for the benefit of powerful monopolies belonging to few families worldwide and to Greece. And I'm saying all this because yesterday the Prime Minister discovered the primary sector. Oh, what a surprise! He still said half the truth. He said he took billions of euros from the ESRB or from the CAP. Do you know how much money you have in the medium term for the primary sector? One hundred and eighty million euros is the fund. You're making fun of farmers. This is your big crime. With lies you never do a job. Beans from China, lentils from Canada, chickens from Mexico, lemons from Argentina, beans from Syria. Only 22% of the pig consumption is produced in Greece. All this shows that the road has become a one-way road, that the road has become a narrow one, and the Greek Solution needs to be opened in the primary sector. To support the farmer, the farmer, the fisherman who produce products really so that the Greeks don't get hungry. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And tell you who you are in New Democracy? The Prime Minister decided one morning to ban smoking. Mr President, I am trying to talk. Well, wells come on. I do not think it is right, but in any case. And they don't even listen, the worst of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u64	Leave the Minister alone. When there is a speaker, it is not the right time for the Minister to speak. Minister, can you hear me? Do you hear the speaker, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Screka, you can't hear us not listening to us, but don't even write to us. Mr. Davakis, it's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u66	The speaker protests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u67	You were talking about primary production.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u68	Okay. The other two years later, the primary production?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u69	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u70	So let's actually go. Now, listen now, it's your mistakes to correct them, Mr. Screka. It imposed a smoking ban. There goes a control mechanism, and if you don't have the sign, he says, and the smoking book - red tape you say, a perfect state - 10000 euros fine. What am I supposed to do with the smoking book in a shop when smoking in the shop is forbidden? It's called a smoking book. And you're going to hit the red tape? A thousand euros the fine. So these are incredible things. We - and I will say it again - will abolish the tax and tax exemptions that you have made them 'head hunters'. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] There is a way, by copying the American model, that neither the sachets nor the corruption nor the tax collectors who are chasing the Greek citizen and the rabies businessman. That's how you got them tax collectors chasing rabies with rabies. This tax will be abolished at the first moment the Greek Solution will govern. It's over and out. And closing, not to push your time, like today we had the invasion of Cyprus. No one spoke today. I'm sorry. The problem is not the invasion of Cyprus. The problem is, we didn't understand what it was. For us, ladies and gentlemen, it was the division of that time. The seven years, the one which created dilemmas in the Greeks, the coup d'état which took place in Cyprus and the division of the Greeks. Kissinger and the United States based on Ioannides the Hunter and supported his hopes on them. I'll say it again. Today you make two mistakes. Again you divide the Greeks and you are relying on the Americans. Unfortunately, you do not learn from your mistakes. You give them everything and you get nothing. That's how we lost Cyprus. This is how Cyprus has been lost, and so we have lost many times in our national affairs. For Greeks divided gave the Turks the opportunity to invade Cyprus. And now, instead of being united in what Erdogan the fascist does, we're splitting into vaccine workers and hostiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u71	Mr. President, come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u72	Yes, Mr President, I apologise. So he managed to divide Cyprus as well. And listen a little. Worst comes because Erdogan is perpetuating. The Azerbaijani your friends challenged the recognition of the occupants. The Kyrgyzians themselves. And you sleep the sleep of the law. And I'm afraid you all agree, and PASOK and New Democracy and SYRIZA. You agree with The Hague. This is a crime, because the partial influence you made with Italy and with Egypt will be required to go to The Hague with reduced influence on Kastelorizo. No The Hague, 'cause we're lost. No The Hague, because Greece is amputating. Do AEZ with Cyprus today, to end the story. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And also...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u73	Mr. President, please. We've made a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u74	I am sorry, Mr President, but I have to say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u75	Say it next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u76	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u77	No, not two minutes, you'll be closed in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u78	Wait a minute. You were only talking about compulsory vaccinations in health and you all agree, because - he says - they come into contact with people and you're right. The bus driver isn't coming? The cab driver's not coming? The EMAS man who was fired today because he didn't make the vaccine, is it not injustice to fire him for the compulsion? We - I repeat - say it directly. Don't open the ferry door. Don't open a division in the Greeks. A common denominator in the majority of the problems arises from the question of confidence. People don't trust you, people don't trust you. You didn't convince him. You're unreliable. And the only mutation that exists and will leave its print on Greek society intense is your split. And also here there is no cure, it is the mutation of the New Democracy to a leftist party and the division that is sadly inspiring and sparse. This will be stopped by the Greek Solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In conclusion, I will tell you some of the colleagues in the New Democracy. Our lives are changing for us. So we will change the lives of the Greeks. We'll make it better. We'll unite them, and we won't divide them. Neither a mandatory vaccine nor imposition. We don't invest in fake ideologies. We're not investing in fake deeds. We invest in the Greek man, in the persuasiveness, in the love for his country, we invest in the patriots who invest in the only Greek patriot party, the voice of reason, the Greek Solution. A four-year rule and the Greek Solution will give a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] PRESIDENT. — The next item is the report (Doc. Athanasios Athanasios, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Request for waiver of immunity Member: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Constantine Bogdanou. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 30 June 2021, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the immunity of Mr Constantine Bogdanou be waived. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide by raising the hand or rest on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. Of course, if another colleague wishes to speak, he can say so. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I said before. The case concerns, as I have said, Mr Constantine Bogdano. It is a case in which he is accused of violating the personal data law and a slandering defamation of a lady, who is also the maid, who was a political secretary. The lawsuit, of course, has been practiced. Mr. Bogdanos will tell us himself. Our committee has decided to propose to Parliament unanimously that its immunity be waived. Mr. Bogdanos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, your good day first. A few years ago, a lady appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the highest symbolic importance, she considered it appropriate to maintain a social media profile with her semi-naked photos. The semi-naked, semi-naked, semi-naked is a surname of the Greek language, which can be opened by any dictionary and see what it means. It's when someone's almost naked. At the same time, I owned the company where MeaCulpa.gr was owned, an information site. This site reproduced a post that "played" over a number of other sites entitled "The Semester New Secretary" of this Minister. Therefore, the lady has sued a number of information sites, i.e. their properties, as you know. Owner of this site was me. He testified five days before the election. What's that supposed to mean? It will say that I am before you as a part of a general legal action, but in my case it is obvious that it has been done with a particular purpose to blur water, create impressions, trouble us, as it does today, and actually result in the creation of a climate or an atmosphere. The Rules are clear. And the last revision leaves no room for manoeuvre. Once the legal action has been done before someone or someone in the parliamentary power has been elected, the committee is obliged, as it did, to propose the waiver of its immunity or the Member. Therefore, despite the fact that a complaint has been filed in this regard and that it has gone to the record marked as jokes, I ask you today to vote in favour of the lifting of my immunity. I am sorry that we have been afflicted and that we are here because of dryness, clearly because of a political feasibility, which is precisely to create impressions. However, I would very much like you to vote in favour of the lifting of my immunity, nor for this lady to be treated in Greek justice, where until now when I have been found, without any exception, I have been vindicated. The same will happen now. I guarantee you that the same will happen now and I ask you to give me the opportunity to deal with this ridiculous accusation before Greek justice, to suppress this accusation, and then I too will exercise all the means that the law gives me to compensate for this suffering and the attempt at my slandering and slandering. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you again today to vote in favour of the waiver of my immunity, just as the committee responsible has unanimously recommended. I think this suggestion is right and fair? It may not, but it is in line with the letter of the law and of the Rules of Procedure. As Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, the first time he got up to this base in the capacity of Prime Minister, our rules are the rule. Agreed and in accordance with these rules, I will clear my name in relation to this malicious attack and then prove what has actually happened. Thank you very much for your attention. I'm really sorry about today's suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. As I said, under the Rules of Procedure, a colleague may ask for the floor. Is there a colleague who wants to talk about Mr. Bogdan's case? No, there isn't. So we shall proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, after you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. The system will remain open for a maximum of ten-15 minutes, so that Members can vote for it in part. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials responsible may assist you. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on the request for immunity. (Parliament adopted the
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the electronic counting, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the procedure of the special agenda for lifting until counting the votes has been completed. We are returning to the debate of the bill. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, to conclude the previous objections to the amendments Greece has no memoranda but enhanced supervision. But the only country in the European Union. No troika, no institutions. In fact, we are playing with words, since we all know that until 75% of Greece's debts are paid to Europeans, at the earliest in 2060, we will have memos, and troika. As regards the two amendments, which should be discussed in committee, we insist that they should be withdrawn. This is an unacceptable process, a sample of the government's authoritarianism, as is the case with many other issues. Finally, for those who insist that the Memorandums are positive for Greece, invoking the failure, if not the betrayal of SYRIZA in 2015, it would be well to see the position of Greece in 2008, compared with two other smaller countries, with Israel and Switzerland, in terms of the dollar, since all three have a different currency. As we will testify in the Minutes, later all together, Greece's GDP in 2008 was $356 billion, Israel's $216 billion and Switzerland's $570 billion. In 2020, however, Greece's GDP was $89 billion from $356 billion previously, Israel's $402 billion and Switzerland's $750 billion. We need nothing more to substantiate the incredible destructiveness of the memorials, let alone the PSI. Because we do not like lies and political populism will refer to yesterday's report by the Prime Minister, according to which the main pillar of development is our primary sector. In this respect, apart from saying this on the first day of the establishment of the Greek Solution, while we have devoted a large part of our four hundred ninety-page programme to the primary sector, to saying this when it wasted 41 billion on loan, supporting our primary sector just with 183 million, as it seems clear from the medium-term we will present in the Minutes, it is certainly populism. However, when they were given to "FRAPORT" 177 million, while to "Athens International Airport" involving the Germans, up to 130 million. One hundred and eighty-three million in our entire primary sector in 2020 and 2021 and 177 million in the German 'FRAPORT' only in 2020. It's a holocaust, isn't it? How much more so when Turkey gave an airport in Antalya to 'FRAPORT'? So, logically, did Germany not put Greece in red by directing its tourists in Turkey to support the 'FRAPORT'? That nonsense? On this subject, we will again discuss a draft law which uses European Union directives to hide some amendments behind them, but in particular the scandal of separating and extinguishing the HEDN network through its secession and subsidence to the IEDN which has already been separated, as well as the further depreciation of PPC. It is an undertaking, which, if it no longer competes, since the President's statement introduces energy to around 1/3 of its cost of production is gradually transformed into a commercial one. At the same time, it sells out its most valuable assets, the networks, and already, both the cost of energy and the energy dependency of our country are constantly growing. In particular, Article 129 promotes the sale of 49% of TENs along with the retail network, i.e. the transport of low electricity to final consumers, despite the fact that no favoured country on the planet has privatised its networks. However, in our question as of August 6, 2019, PPC had replied that PPC has the PPC-owned network, noting that TEDO paid a lease of 270 million in 2020, when it had profits outside the lease, of 20 million euros, as we will deposit in the Minutes. So why the new secession? Because this time the network that covers a hundred and twenty - seven thousand five hundred four kilometers across the country together with substations is separating, as we will testify in the Minutes. Separation should not concern copper cables, as the fibre optic network remains. The crime, now, being launched is double. Firstly, because this is a strategic infrastructure, which is now considered to be a gold mine, since it can be used for the 5G, as we will testify in the Minutes and secondly, because it seems to be underestimated, although the secession is carried out by a valuation we have not seen, but we have only read as news. For this very reason, we should have been presented to the House with the valuation and other accounting documents of the secession, noting that the network has a value of EUR 4,86 billion in its fixed assets under the GRANT THORNTON, while the own funds sector is only valued at around EUR 991 million. On the basis of the previous profitability assessment without rent, 300 million, i.e. it is estimated as much as three times the profits of 2020. Is it not a disgrace, especially at this time when the companies' assessments have been launched internationally? At least ten times his profits, shouldn't they be? As we have now asked the committee, if we really want to talk about the environment and recycling, not pretextically, such as this bill, what does the government plan to do with the material from wind turbines? According to the wind industry, their lives are set in fifteen to twenty years, although in fact, they are considered to be smaller. Each fin needs between 30 and 44.8 cubic metres of space at landfill sites. Winds of wind turbines are a toxic alloy of unique composite materials, mainly fiberglass which cannot easily be crushed, recycled or reused, while disassembly requires much time and energy, resulting in their waste, most of the time, being buried in the same areas, as against an extra reward fee. Unfortunately, something similar is also the case with the photovoltaics that the country has flooded, as we will also be tabling in the Minutes. What environmental sensitivity, then, are we talking about? The government executes German, nothing else, since both are imported despite the fact that they could be produced here, so that bankrupt Greece does the jobs of the wealthy countries producing them. Continuingly, the bill introduces two European Union directives with great and unjustified delay, as far as their ratification is concerned, when they were put into consultation by the previous Minister in November 2020. Of course, it was posted with seventy articles, and now it was filed with a hundred forty - eight articles, without prior consultation and with an inoculation theme of the TEDO. To a certain extent, it reminds of the invasive amendment to the unacceptable sale of water for which global wars are taking place, since it is the biggest resource for the future. We regret that, but at some point, the Greeks will wake up, so all those who are criminal against them, as will certainly also be with the memorials and the PSI, will be faced with justice. Furthermore, once again, a bill that was in consultation only on waste management is added at the last minute to issues of urban legislation and energy regulations, without consultation, with the relevant bodies, nor with the citizens. Isn't it a shame? How much more mockery will the Greeks stand? In terms of the contents of the bill, now, Part I is only an introductory part, while in the second, the Directive of Europe 2018/851, which deals with waste management, is incorporated. In this respect, it is foreseen to separate the materials in several categories, in Article 7 and the separate collection with special containers in Article 26. Prioritisation of the use of waste is laid down in Article 4, where recycling and reuse include combustion, while the ‘pay as far as I fly’ regime is introduced, the responsibility of the waste producer for the operation and its representatives for the preparation of a management programme. Provisions are also contained on how hazardous waste is managed by the separate GPS crossing, Article 43 and on waste plants, Article 30, while increasing burial charges are adopted in the disposal areas, Article 38, as well as targets for recycling paper, metal, plastic and glass in Article 25. It is important here that, with Article 20, an objective of reducing food waste is being set up, that is, by 30% compared to the base year 2022. In this regard, the sums invested in newcomers, startups, that is, for food management flying to the United States were $ 125 billion in 2018, having greatly increased, today, stressing that even the World Bank finances such initiatives, by issuing bonds of $2.7 billion. This is therefore a business opportunity, apart from its environmental meaning. The second part also includes arrangements for the network of companies to manage the waste, while, probably, there will be PPPs based on the announcements made by Mr Hatzidakis, although it seems that he was rather saddened by Mr Marinakis, as we will testify in the Minutes. In particular, as regards Article 59, it refers to cooperation between Member States of the European Union in relation to waste management and prevention programmes. The right thing, however, would be between countries that border how much more, if they have important trades. For example, it is unacceptable for Turkey to pollute the Aegean, as recently with the scalp in Bosphorus that reached Lemnos and Halkidiki to produce products exported to the European Union, without environmental charges and to pay Greece. In Part III, the Directive of the European Union 2018/852 on packagings, which introduces a recycling fee of eight minutes for plastic bottles with PVC label in Article 80, is incorporated. Our question here was why is nothing similar is imposed on aluminium packaging or on glass bottles, such as abroad? In addition, the end of seven minutes per piece of plastic transport bag, irrespective of wall thickness, with the exception of biodegradables, is maintained in Article 79, while some topics are mentioned for the labelling of packaging. Part IV includes provisions for the operation of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, such as its staff at the cost of the General Accounting Office of the State of 22,000 euros, in Article 100. Furthermore, it involves the participation of NGOs in a wide range of activities, which are rather out of a legal person of private law, which we are very sceptical about. The V Part has provisions that individually amend the previous Hatzidakis legislation on plastics, Law 4736/2020, before it even works. Legislative chaos prevails in the government. The F' Part refers to the functioning of the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency, but for which there is no paradoxical cost for its staff. The Z' Part is a slogan of amendments to town and country planning regulations, which we do not know what and who are serving while agreeing with the three-month extension to the establishment of the electronic building in paragraph 9 of Article 118. As the infrastructure is not ready, we propose, as a more realistic one, that a further one-year extension be granted. There is an interest here in the provision for the extension of the quarries to ten of five years, in Article 118 and in the transfer of a building coefficient, in Article 119, and there are additional extensions to the drafting of the town plan in Matti, as well as in other firefighting areas, which substantiate the inability of the relevant services. Part 1 relates to energy regulations, including the provision for separating the TEN. These provisions, together with Articles 110 and 111, of Part VI on the possibilities of an EIA connection and when the network is saturated or passed through forests, without the usual approvals and without the reafforestation requirement, constitute a very large environmental hypocrisy. Finally, Article 133 by paragraph 1 shall be added to the possibility of extending the eighteen-month period of search for hydrocarbons where the period provided for in the licence is not sufficient to complete the activities. Here, we have asked whether it is extended to delay the work, as well as to what stage are the explorations, on the land that has been given. We didn't usually get any answers. In addition to the mistakes that distinguish the draft law, which we mentioned in detail in committee, we stressed that there are many critical issues that are missing and should be added, issues which we have outlined in the committee in detail, in addition, with every detail in the articles that we have adopted. In conclusion, we stressed that there is not, nor is there, a costing here from the General Accounting Office of the State, despite the fact that significant expenditure is recorded on the basis of specific articles which we referred to in the committee. We have, however, pointed out that, if no cost is anticipated, it will have no effect, at the risk of imposing fines on the European Union. In this respect, it is generally incomprehensible to not cost the bills from the General Accounting Office of the State, so that we wonder why their staff are being paid, and why they provide such reports without any calculation. Honestly, we are concerned about the lack of seriousness on his part which should involve the government very seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u85	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u86	I shall conclude, Mr President. Without quantitative objectives, it is given the failure of any project, as, after all, it is seen from the fracture in which the parties in the government led it. Finally, for all of this, and in particular, since we have almost no answer to the questions we have put to the committees, we will vote against the bill, let alone when, within it, the crime of extinguishing the TEDO, a truly big crime, is hidden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, too. I will now give the special speaker of Mera25, Mr Kritonas Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. MPs, MPs, ministers, are discussing a bill that is currently locking the country in a disastrous course for the environment, while the whole planet is trying to give us and the generations that come a last chance. This last chance you deprive young people and young people in this country and in the environment. You deprive it of it in both labour and labour and in all rights both now and in the environment. It's a bill that guarantees we won't have recycling. It is a bill that favours the shapes, the two companies that make recycling, not to implement their goals. It's a bill that favors bottling companies. It is a bill that guarantees that the last inch of forest and land will be built in Greece. Because the truth is that we are living a doctrine of shock in the environment, we had before Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Economou, Mr. Thomas. Each of them, for a different reason, had something to lose when they were being exposed and talking to Parliament. Your government, during their service, has served. However, he served the grown - up, but your government at the time avoided serving the little ones. He had a class dimension in the service. When Mr. Hadjidakis left, who wanted to defend the European profile, Mr. Economou who wanted to defend his academic profile, Mr. Thomas who wanted to defend his mandate in the European Commission, came Mr. Skrekas. In the Minister of State of Mr. Skreka, your Government feels free to do incomprehensible services to interests and at the same time rhyphetological services to smaller social groups. We had the first soil loss in Greece after the Asia Minor Destruction. I'm talking about the Squirrels, about the incomprehensible contract that turned to the public in north-east Halkidiki. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] At the same time, now, you are bringing us burning everywhere, uncontrolled recycling companies, uncontrolled water bottlers and the dissolution of urban legislation. In fact, it is clear that the new administration of the Ministry of the Environment marks the Mitsotakis decision that this shorter joke in Europe, its green profile, is not something that it can defend. It seems, in fact, that it is not the most important thing he wants to defend. There are services more important than profiles. But let's go see what's going on today. The European Union is sending you a message. Even this European Union sends you a message. It is not by chance that the day you brought the bill to Parliament to file Greece's complaint to the European Court of Justice on air quality. You bring burning to Athens and the European Commission is reporting a complaint against Greece about the air quality of Athens. Thessaloniki had preceded and Volos was next, landmarked for the incineration of waste in SYRIZA and you. Even the European Union is trying to send you a message, but you do not care. Do you know why you don't care? Because the fines, half a billion that will come for NATURA, the fines that will come for the winds at NATURA, the fines that will come for the quality of the air, will not be paid by you, will not be paid by contractors who benefit from your decisions. Citizens will pay for it. The municipalities will pay for it. You want to turn us into Europe's blast furnace, in fact, in Europe's waste incinerator. How else can we interpret the fact that both the SYRIZA PPP for the Peloponnese waste, which you have exhumed and turned it into a flag, and now you multiply it into a PPP throughout Greece - that is what you want to fund with the Recovery Fund - which includes twice as many waste management plants as necessary, double the commitments for a volume of waste from citizens to individuals. Of course, it provides for clauses that will be paid by the citizens whenever we do not give enough garbage to private individuals. But there is no problem. Citizens will pay the fines. As for the manufacturers, the two companies that have the waste and waste plants management monopolies, that is to say, as far as they can and are lawful of importing waste from Europe. One example? SYRIZA may have made the extension and renewal of the agreement and the extension of the environmental conditions and the renewal of the agreement with the cement manufacturers for the incineration of waste there, but in the case of Volos, we have imported waste from other countries. Is it not possible to make the crime of burning with garbage from Greece? There is. And, indeed, in the Race - you know, this trick based on the European Parliament - where it will be a place of testimony on the basis of what the European Parliament says about future generations, an environmental crime that will torment the citizens of western Athens and Attica for the next generations - we do not say so, the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament - there we have paid a gold factory, the EMAS. Three hundred million euros! We've paid it to get the garbage, take the recyclable materials, take the organics, turn it into RDF, i.e. material for combustion in the cement industries, coke trash. Do you know what EMAS is doing in the Race? He does all this, and then he gets it and burys it in the Ghost. 90% of RDF, the material, that is, for the crime of burning, is being reintroduced into the Race, at the same time that cement industries import waste from Europe to burn. That's what you're gonna do with the combustion plants. And at the same time that you will make us a loom in Europe - this is the heart of the bill we are discussing - the citizens will pay fines because they do not give the necessary waste volumes and they are forced to be imported by companies. They do not give the necessary volumes of waste to which you have committed yourself - rather, you have committed yourself on their behalf - to agreements like the PPP in the Peloponnese. And your European Union has turned it back, and you have had to take back the request for funding, because you were going to be rejected, because you could not answer the questions you have put to you. And instead of changing the contract, you proceed with national funding. And the citizens, with your decisions, will pay fines because they do not give the necessary volumes of waste that you have undertaken to give to the companies, will pay fines to the European Union because they do not make sufficient recycling, and when they are recycled, they will pay extra fines to the companies, because they will reduce the volumes of waste we give them and they will pay fines to Greece through the European budget with the new decision that you have brought here as a law. When the Member States - and this law was for Greece - do not make recycling, they will contribute more to the European budget. And who's gonna pay for all this? Citizens. Not the companies, not the governments, not the ministers, the citizens. And of course, you continue to manage the recycling system mismanagement. Here you are condoning us with the recycling systems, where you are exempting companies that contribute with a failed recycling system from all legal liability, abolishing the ceiling that had entered into the reserves of recycling systems in order to press for the use of their money. For those who know what's going on, it's very photographic, and it's about a specific recycling system. You also put penalties on recycling systems - and you say, "Here we are, we are putting penalties on recycling systems, what do you want?" - but with such timelines that will never be imposed. Even BSE told us. What's going on? Why are you bringing all this? Because on February 17, 2021, a few months ago, they were forced by their conscience to resign three organisations from the Recycling Agency, EEAN: WWF, GREENPEACE and the Ecological Recycling Company. Why did these companies quit? Was it some kind of pillistic ideological view of them? No, they just resigned to defend the opinion of the services. What did the services say? They said that under no circumstances should the operational plan of reciprocating recycling of one of the two recycling systems be approved. Both present many problems. This operational plan has been considered in multi-page analyses by the services, the EEAN Alternative Management Directorate, to be impossible, on the basis of all the facts, to fulfil the targets so far. In fact, almost any year has not fulfilled its objectives - in detail, I have submitted with a timely question - and receives disproportionately high contributions in relation to yields. And the board of directors of EEAN came and approved after this recommendation the business plan of return recycling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All of this, of course, is for you to settle with your current arrangements. As regards bottling companies, which you are favouring in thousands of ways, in which, in fact, you are giving them the sources that must belong to the municipalities for their water - these are issues which we are constantly bringing with parliamentary control - I would like to say: you are abolishing the obligation for bottling companies to make use of 30% of reused bottles by 2030. Of course, it is not enough for you with a bill to make us loomers of Europe, waste incinerators of Europe. You are bringing other things, but, of course, you are not hesitant to tell us that Europe is burning waste. Really, to get some of that logic of your argument. If Europe promotes waste incineration, please explain why it has stopped financing it. Why would Sweden, which had made the mistake of investing in the use of energy, in the burning of waste, because it is recycling, too, needs - as you will do - to import waste? After recycling, as we know, there is no heat value of waste. If proper recycling is done, there is no heat value of the waste. So whoever makes the right recycling can't burn his waste. And Sweden, which makes the right recycling, found out. Because she's tied to contracts, she's now importing waste. You are also telling us that it does not affect the burning of waste. In Vienna it has a burning plant in the centre of the city. Ask the Vienna combustion plant if it has furane and dioxins. You know what they're gonna tell you? They'll tell you he's got furane and they've chosen that they can have dioxins. But tell us the truth that it has dioxins and that they are bio-supporters. Say it boldly. In Vienna, they don't lie. They say they have dioxins, and yet they approve it. You tell us they don't have any dioxins. Tell us they have dioxins. Tell the truth at last. Don't be fighting with the truth. And remember, of course, what will burn in these factories.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u89	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u90	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're gonna burn the compost produced in the waste treatment plants, all that you're going to fund with the Recovery Fund. And, yes, the compost is going to the combustion plant. You will burn all the plastics that are not recycled, all the plastics that are recycled, but after the ROMs, the conversion of waste that you do, where you compress them, compress them and you have legalised them in each step, all the illegal facilities, all the waste transhipment stations. It brings waste that is not recycled in such a dissolution, and that will not be recovered in the plants, and that will go for combustion. And yet from the plastics that the factories manage, the few, to recover, to separate, that is, those that are not recycled in Greece and that will go for combustion. All this is sent for burning. There is no example of pan-European, there is no scientific evidence of the effects on public health of such plastic burning. We don't have a corresponding example anywhere in the world. Bring us the evidence or the particular mixture you'll burn, what a furan you'll have. Get us a study. You don't have, because it doesn't exist. You are currently exploring Greece and the citizens to an unthinkable unprecedented public health risk. This is signed in this Chamber today! We are clearly voting against. In my dentext I shall be speaking about the amendments which you do not very much abolish the criterion in favour of the public for forest maps. Allow the building on forest land and make it half as much as possible. You are bringing amendments that dismantle urban legislation, dismantle forest legislation to recently make slaves at the same time as giving them the oligars. We are clearly voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u92	We are interrupting the debate on the draft law for a minute to announce the result of the vote on the waiver of immunity of Mr Bogdanou. On the case of Mr Constantine Bogdanou, a total of 238 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 237 Members voted. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. 'PARON', no one voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and I will give the floor for two minutes to the Minister for Maritime Affairs to develop the amendment number 991/19-07-2021 on the licensing of constructions and installations in landlocked areas. Minister, you have the floor and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, will be given the floor immediately after the speech. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. This amendment refers to two topics: firstly, the licensing of facilities within land area and, secondly, the further strengthening of maritime safety. The first issue of temporary construction in land ports and facilities for which no building permit is required was introduced under Article 137 of Law 4759/20 for the first time was the possibility of building a temporary building in ports to host passport-control facilities for persons from third countries, known Schengen gates. Imagine that our country has an obligation to create sixty-four such pillars, when the Mediterranean France has an almost one-digit number. This is because we have not solved the issues relating to port gates as opposed to land and air borders, and there is also an important problem that most of the ports do not have conditions of construction and use of land. There have therefore been many spatial and urban problems, limited space in port areas. Specific technical problems, particularly environmental legislation, were therefore to be solved. So, with the proposed amendment, we are actually speeding up the licensing procedure and, of course, we are going through the next phase of the construction of the provisional infrastructure for the Schengen gates. This is the first action. In the second, what we are basically proposing, I would like to make it clear that the protection of human life in both the beaches and the seas was, is, is and will be one of the important priorities of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy. Therefore, concrete actions and initiatives are needed to limit drowning and maritime accidents. We have so far worked in the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy at three levels. First of all, we revised the Presidential Decree of 2018 with the new Presidential Decree in 71/2020. Two innovations were essentially introduced. In the obliged beaches beyond the bathroom facilities, including the busy beaches, we also increased the safety equipment of the life-saving schools. The second also innovation was that the checks are now digital using a tablet. The infringements are therefore recorded in real time. The port police information system has been upgraded in cooperation with the non-governmental organisation Safe Water Sports, and we have also given the opportunity to extend the time of naval coverage. The results from the implementation of the new presidential decree are indeed impressive. Up to now we have a percentage of seafaring coverage of around 74.62%, five hundred thirty-six are the obliged beaches. I want here to note that there has been a check on all the beaches. And in order to give a comparison with the past, in 2018 the seafaring coverage rate was 59.56% on only four hundred fifty beaches. But we are not reassured. And basically what do we propose with this amendment, because it is precisely because we want to increase safety levels for both Greek and foreign swimmers? We therefore propose the possibility of also the holders of seafarers' diplomas, provided, of course, that their valuable work be carried out exclusively on the beaches that are to be found and authorised seafarers. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that strengthening safety on our beaches and seas essentially contributes to the best possible protection of human life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u95	Is there any question to the Minister on the amendment before leaving? Mr. Famelos. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you some clarifications about both the first and the second ones. As far as I can see from reading the first article, we can see that, apart from building Schengen spaces, you are going through areas for which there is no need for exceptional permits, such as port administrations, publishers, for roofs that can accommodate areas of health interest. And that, obviously, in breach of - as you have said - the process of defining land uses and building conditions. So you are actually coming over to circumvent the Council of State because there is no Presidential Decree to authorize areas that are not a priority Schengen, and indeed - also the second question in the first article - Mr President is by putting a deadline of 15 days to check supporting documents and, thirdly, excluding the environmental licensing of ISPS facilities in port authorities, the Schengen facilities? I think, Minister, and Mr President - and I refer to the Bureau - that you are not allowed to legislate on an article bypassing the Council of State in the face of the plenary and in the knowledge of all the Members as we are aware. The second issue: in the second article, Minister, I would like you to tell us if you confessed that you failed with Presidential Decree 71/2020 yours with regard to the licensing of seafarers. So are you telling us now in this article - and we want your opinion on how we will be placed - that we can have lifeguards who have a degree and lifeguards who do not have, that we can have lifeguards with too much justifications up to a simple school certification? Really, lifeguards who will not have permission from the port authority, do we want you to tell us, have medical evidence from a psychiatrist, a dermatologist? Could they be fugitives or fugitives? Will they have a high-speed pilot license? Will they have tested theoretical and practical? Will their bathing capacities be tested? Because you are probably still bringing us a process by pas as well for seafarers, insulting your own institutional framework anyway. And all this for what? Because you have created an institutional framework which you are now saying does not come out of. So you will either be courageous to say that you have failed in the institutional framework or in the documents or that you cannot implement it or, Mr President, we will tell the Greek society that Mr Plakkatakis brings us here lifeguards who two of the three will not have passed through the process of certification of qualifications or will not have the required papers beyond the certification of a school. This is very important, Mr President, to leave them in the light of this, Mr President, and also that this amendment has not been put into committee, it has not been debated by the bodies concerned. But you tried to spend her last night so that she wouldn't be connected, Mr. Placiotakis. These are quite serious and we cannot leave them like that. And at least, because guards know, you cannot do this when SYRIZA is opposition because we control and protect the public interest and security of citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u97	Is there another observation, Minister? Would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u98	I shall begin with your second remark. I think the evidence I gave you is overwhelming. To date, I told you that the seafaring coverage rate is about 75% when the obliged beaches have increased. Of the four hundred fifty that I mentioned in 2018, we are on the five hundred and thirty-six beaches. I would also like to say that the results of the reduction in drowning and accidents have also been considerably reduced. So we have also achieved an increase in maritime coverage and, of course, the achievement of the objective, which is no more than the protection of human life in both the seas and the beaches. What was the problem this year? First of all, this proposed amendment for lifeguards will only apply this year. And why just this year? Because shipping and schools opened up because of the end of May pandemic. These lifeguards will have a degree in naval schools. And what do we say? That they will only be able to operate on the beaches where a licensed lifeguard exists. We want, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to increase the rate of maritime cover. We want to maximize safety on both our beaches and our seas. That is why we are proposing this amendment. Also, because you refer to the issues of the creation of the Schengen gates, there is an obligation here for the country. By the end of May 2022 those Schengen gates should be operated. Many of the municipal or state port funds already have plans, we have already launched their funding. So we must move quickly, of course, while respecting all the conditions. A working group has also been set up consisting of representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, Shipping and Culture, which has worked out the specific functions, among other things. There were technical issues, there were environmental legislation issues, but all this is resolved with the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too, Minister. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has been criticised by two different directions. There is the criticism that it works without a plan, that it is ineffective. There is another criticism that she has a plan to reconstruct police, that she is neoliberal, that she helps big companies and not small companies, she has a specific plan. And one asks whether both reviews can be well founded. Although it is paradoxical, I want to explain in this speech that it is not paradoxical. Both critics have a basis of truth. And they have the basis of truth if we understand that the word 'effect' has no scientific significance unless we explain 'effective' as to what. Without telling you what it's about, what it wants to pursue, you can't judge whether it's effective or not. And the second thing I'm going to say, to explain the paradox, is that in many areas, lack of planning is a plan. I mean, the fact that I don't have a plan even though it sounds paradoxical is a specific plan. I shall begin with that, Mr President, in addition to the draft education legislation, that is to say, the new regulations on education, which you have told us is a myth and a make news that twenty-five to thirty-three thousand students from the universities will be cut off, you told us that it concerns only a few small-demand regional areas and we are now seeing exactly the outcome of this strategy. Twenty-five to thirty will stay out of students who could go to a department last year with eleven, twelve, thirteen thousand molecules. Now they can't even apply for this university. I want to tell you, Minister, although you are not listening and speaking to each other instead of listening, I must tell you that Mrs. Keramea will be recorded as the worst Minister of Education in the last two hundred years. I think it has not been a Minister of Education who has been so indifferent to the great body of students and students. He hasn't passed! Is that ineffective? No, it's not ineffective if we understand what Mrs. Kerameau wanted to do with the prime minister's cover. It was to have more elite universities - in Europe we extend how many children are going to university - to send the children of the middle and working classes to technical training. But because we're alarge in elites, people can go to colleges that are our friends. That was a plan. And it is this project that will record Mrs Kerameau as the worst Minister of Education in the last two hundred years. It is a complete disdain for the great trunk of the children of Greece. But we're going back to this bill now. The government is trying to unite at least two currents in the Greek political scene. The conservative or superconservative part of the New Democracy and we bring back reserves from the modernist part of society, from the ministers who were enchanted with the eight years of Mr. Simitis, such as Mr. Gerapetiti, Mr. Tsakloglou, Mr. Pierrakakis, all those who were enchanted. You're trying to unite this. Only the modernistic project of these three Ministers has always been based on a false analysis. That the client system, the rousphetti, direct assignments were a matter of ineffectiveness. No, it wasn't a question of inefficiency. It was a matter of how the PASOK and the New Democracy in the years after the Cultivation formed the social block of forces. And that's not enough, but they're making a second mistake. Why is that when you promote neoliberalism, the working drafts aimed at working class, the big projects that go to big businesses what remains to form a new social bloc? You don't only make a social block with big businessmen and some friends in tourism. You come back to what you know, the client state, the rosés. You are not planning for the future because you cannot plan for the future if you do not know who it is for, and that is why you do not need any tools, our rapporteur said about the TEN. Why would they keep the TEN, Mr Colleague, because they are not going to plan something for energy? They do not care that the TEN will be linked to the RES to have a plan in advance, how many units we want, where we want them. We do not want this to be part of the public with a plan. We give it to the private sector and because there are malfunctions in the private sector, instead of planning in advance what we want, we come back and make some arrangements. We have said a few words that the market does not need regulation and we are now coming and we are setting it up in retrospect. You don't say it! You say it 'on the leg' to cover the flaws on the markets, when you should know that there are these flaws. And we don't need tools like local government. Isn't that right? This is why the municipalities are cancelled and the waste management responsibilities are removed. Your plan is to proceed with the Ministry's combustion plants and get an extra hat to the municipal fee. Not only do you need not because there's no planning in local government, but I understand that you don't need your ministry either. Even your ministry in this bill unfolds it. You put less people there. As in my own bills - I mean that I am an economist - in economics, we go outsourcing, and we even do audits. Why don't you need these tools, not local government or the Ministry as a guarantee of the public interest with a plan. So we're going like we said in the ruffles. What's this about the special town plan now? I mean, let me get this straight. Mr. Georgiadis came and said that even the NATURA areas can be cut off and applied to one piece in one region and something else in another area. It wasn't enough for you, Mr. Screka. I understand that you want to take a step over Mr. Georgiadis. That Mr. Georgiadis didn't have the imagination and range of visions you have. And you say now and outside NATURA and everywhere they can make town plans for an area that is a mile away from another area. That's not a plan shortage. Because what does that mean, that we don't have a plan? What it always meant to Greece. The mayor will go and say, "I have this need or will be taken by the Member of this Parliament from another province and a friend of mine has this need and a bag of bags and bags, we will make a town plan at the needs of our people who want to integrate into the social block of forces." That's what we're doing. That's what I understand he's doing this bill. Are you effective? The question is what I put at the beginning. Effective on what? What's the target? If it is the design of the National Health System for education throughout the world, you are not effective. You don't want to design the National Health System. You don't care about primary health and health centers. Even in this pandemic you could hardly present us with a plan. Don't you care besides the health crisis, the environmental crisis? You heard what Mr Arsenis said about burning. Indeed now, you will say that you have changed the environment, you have seen what happened in Greece, what happened in Germany, and we continue with combustion, and we even remove what is true of all the organisations and local authorities that could have a design for combustion. Is that what you're doing for the financial crisis? Is a design along with the Recovery Fund on how we can have another model? I don't think so. I think that if the question is whether you are effective in dealing with the triple crisis in health, environmental and economic matters, you are far away from what it takes, but you are quite effective - and there we must prevent you - from trying to create a new power blog, not with the new entrepreneurs and the modernistics we heard in the 1990s and 2000s and the new entrepreneurship with the old and the great, and then, because we are not getting out of this, because what you are doing in working and elsewhere is affecting not just the working class.... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] ...only one minute, Mr. President. It affects both the working class and the middle layers. Let's go back to the old days. We will create a new social power blog which will be partly economical, but also a list of hundreds of small interests that will come to the government at any time and say to you: 'Stop this problem, here is Mr Skreka's bill'. "State this problem, here is Mr Screka's provision where we will be able to resolve it." And I say very clearly, in order to change the course of this place, we must define all parties - and I particularly address the Change Movement and the Mer25 and the JRC - who are our intermediate targets here, because we must start from somewhere, for the economic crisis, for the health crisis, for the climate crisis, for us to define it and then be able to present to the Greek people proposals facing these crises, address specific groups of the Greek population that have removed them, which you want to marginalise them, and that must be done, because we really have the great risk of returning not only to the economic model of the 1970s and 1980s, but also to the political and social model. It is our debt of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to be at the center of any attempt to prevent this return to the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. We are now entering the first circle of speakers and the first speaker is Mr Vassilis Yoyakas and then Mrs Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the main object of the bill is to continue a series of initiatives by the present government that marry environmental protection by changing the energy model and encouraging investment with a positive environmental sign. The impoverishment of electricity production and electricity, in general the national energy and climate plan, and the first climate law in the history of the country to be voted on, are some of the major reforms of the green government agenda. An advanced and ambitious agenda that overturns the stereotype that wanted environmental policies to be traditionally owned by the centre-left and left-wing political formations. The reform of this bill prepares the ground on which the actions of the 'green' pillar of the national plan 'Greece 2.0.' will be fruitful because it contributes to the transition to an energy-friendly environment-friendly model. It contributes to regional planning and sustainable use of resources and also favours private investment and public-private partnerships by looking at the 'green' transformation of the economy. The bill brings together all the legislation on waste management and recycling, and incorporated into national law and two important Community directives on the circular economy. I would like to refer to just some of the provisions of this framework bill that I think it is worth constraining the citizens who are watching us. First of all, the reuse of consumer goods is being strengthened by concrete measures. This makes it compulsory for municipalities of over twenty-thousand inhabitants to set up organised spaces where citizens will deposit used items that will be repaired so that they can be used again. Our country is creating most of the food waste internationally and to reduce these wastes in 2030 to 30% compared to 2022 an incentive is given for the donation and redistribution of foods with a first concern for human consumption and then the needs of livestock farming where they can be used as feed. In the same direction businesses such as supermarkets, hotels, large restaurants, food supply and processing companies are obliged to record food surpluses in a specific way. Another negative distinction for our country is that 80% of our waste is directed to landfill sites, when the European average is about 20%. We want to discourage landfill by allowing municipalities to determine municipal fees, not on the basis of their square property, but on the basis of the amount recycled and how much waste each municipality produces. The "pay as far as I fly" system will be mandatory since 2023 for large hotels and industrial facilities in large municipalities of over 100 thousand inhabitants and since 2028 for municipalities with more than twenty thousand citizens. Municipalities are becoming part of the effort to adopt more and more environmentally friendly habits with a reasonable financial reward. The most responsible consumer behaviour is also intended to extend the guarantee from plastic bottles and disposable glass bottles as well as aluminium packs. In other words, the consumer will be given a guarantee that he has paid within the price of the package when he returns his permit. Analogous obligations and incentives are also laid down for the development of waste collection in the categories of materials, as they are called. In this context, the obligation to separate biowaste until the end of 2022 is introduced by the municipalities and separate collection and recycling of biowaste from large producers on their own responsibility and expenditure, in exchange for the reduction of the relevant municipal fees. From the following educational year a separate collection of six flows of paper, glass, plastics, metals, batteries and food waste will be carried out in schools. Waste from large livestock and pig farming units will go to biogas plants or composting plants where these are available, for the primary purpose of producing, recovering energy from such waste. Let us say again here that recovery is not the best possible method of segregation, but it is better than the last level for landfill and clear priority is given in turn to reducing waste production, restoring and recycling. Before I finish my position, ladies and gentlemen, on a bill that gives solutions to other areas such as the electricity market, urban planning and urban planning, let me turn to certain arrangements that I hope will give way to the issue of saturated electrical networks, an issue that employs, among other things, thousands of candidates, small producers of photovoltaic electricity. Moreover, the operator of the distribution network, the TENE, will be able to upgrade the electricity grid in the so-called ‘red’ areas, increase their capacity so that more producers can operate, and increase the participation of renewable sources in the energy mix of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, with the main axes of the Waste and Recycling Legislation, there are omissions and failures that have led to results below expected. On the other hand, successful practices are introduced in order to bring our country closer to the performance of our European partners. To achieve this, we need two basic conditions, to change habits in the way we produce and consume both as citizens and as businesses and to ensure that there is effective control and guidance of the overall system of alternative management of products and waste. We, ladies and gentlemen, consider these conditions to be satisfied with the regulatory framework established by this draft law, which we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u103	Thank you too, Mr. Yoyaka. Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Christos Gokas from the Change Movement. Come on, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, thank you. A memorial of poor legacy could be said of this draft law which we are discussing. Besides, it's not the first one. What many people have said about opposition and we as a bad legislature, other articles are given consultation, with more articles coming to Parliament, last minute amendments and very important articles. It's a bad law, but is it the government's goal? Through this process, without consultation and at the last moment passes many regulations which are not discussed in society and in this way to legislate and serve specific interests? Besides, in the legislative process in the second committee, representatives and local government came here and raised some objections, some important questions that I do not know whether they were answered on matters that were actually included in the bill. New burdens on self-government without resources. While the alternative management systems had to provide equipment, the municipalities would be financed by Antonis Tritsis. This draft law, which, as we know, incorporates two European directives, sets high recycling targets, but the government, in its practice and incorporates this recycling, promotes combustion as the only option. For the New Democracy and the Government, the management of incineration waste is a one-way road, which is contrary to European directives and, more generally, is contrary to climate issues and, more generally, to the situation that the planet has been living in this time. Serious ambiguities exist in the separation of four currents, the prevention of food waste being targeted without a time limit, and large projects are excluded from their waste management obligations for the benefit of contractors and the environment. For the system "pay as I fly", while Mr. Hadjidakis, the predecessor of the current minister said on 4-11-2020 that the system "pay as far as I fly" will be applied, eventually he sends the program to the bells. It speaks of municipalities over 100 thousand in 2023 and different horizons of adaptation to the TAs. Restore the burial fee which under Law 4609/2019 had been replaced by the contribution to the aid of a circular economy. We are living in the era of the cyclical economy and for the European Union this is a crucial objective. Of course, the 2019 specific circular economy law also had the approval, the agreement of the CEDEFOP and the Committee on the Environment. By the end of burial, combustion is actually being strengthened, and there are no tools to boost the LGBTs that are being delayed in recycling. The Ministry of the Environment, the RIS, effectively removes the power to process from the municipalities and assumes the combustion plants. It has provisions in the draft law even if an RCF does not include energy utilization units, it can be imposed by the RIS. Under Article 63 it is responsible for setting up a network of waste recovery units and therefore only carries the cost of municipal charges - this is very important - and the decision will be taken by the Ministry and the Ministers of New Democracy. This is a counter-democratic, backward and non-documented option that binds our country to combustion plants, when the hierarchy at European Union level with directives are specific to waste management and when the European Union does not finance combustion plants and even mixed waste, which can be seen as being done with this bill. Responsibilities and responsibilities and fines for local government, while the municipality's finances are not at their best, without any additional funding provision, and of course we understand that this will be transferred to the citizens' backs. But what is going on in Attica, Minister, ladies and gentlemen? I convey the cry of agony, concern and agonism to the inhabitants of western Athens and the West Attica for the situation that exists. Specifically, I'm talking about the Race. Combustion plant in the Gender, continued to operate until 2036 and this comes from GDP of 11-6-2021, while Mr. Patoulis here in Parliament, when he took over, said he would close, "we are in favour". On the other hand, it's just the opposite. It continues to function as a repository of all Attica waste, pharaonic facilities, two new units via PPP. While the SYRIZA Government had guaranteed funding from the ESRB and was guaranteed as a public project, it now comes here with the PPPs - as you say - virtually few serve again. The new regional planning that came last August - within the 15th century to say it more simply - includes these projects, the one-way and the logic of combustion, while units are auctioned and their characteristics will be in second phase. However, we cannot say the photographic specifications identified by the Court of Auditors in the ECHR competition, with a mandate of course from the Regional Director of Attica Georgios Patolis. I am talking about the tender for three groups of recycling equipment, which the Court of Auditors actually cancelled, and it approved the other seven. That is 1/3 of a mammoth competition for recycling in Attica. But what do you have to say, Minister, about all this? What do you really have to say? Firstly, we have a government of self-review. But you're voting in six months and you're changing them. For example, OFYPEKA, the effective abolition of administrations to management bodies, but the decisions will now be made to the Ministry. And FYPEKA can, in fact, host a competition for the RIS. Facilitation of authorisation was celebrated by Mr Hatzidakis with Mr.4685 for the RES. The regime has been lightened. It seems that the licensing regime has become easier. You are now coming and you are entering the guarantee letter of an AIA producer licence and you are not talking about the new special landfill for RES, which is necessary, and local societies are complaining about what is happening to date. Thirdly, we've got a decoy government. A characteristic example is what is being done with the TEDO, a decision that will be at the expense of the interests of PPC and the TEDO, but also of the Greek people, in essence, privatization of the networks. Mr. Hatzidakis once said we would sell them to save PPC. PPC, despite the problems, stands on its feet. Mr Hatzidakis also increased the electricity prices and new ones are now being prepared. Of course the Golden Boys are increasing their wages too. Electricity prices have been cut off, power cuts are made and people are left without the good of energy, so I must say that they must also be constitutionally guaranteed and you are now coming and talking about privatising the TEN, when you Europeans do not look at what Europe is doing, which is actually talking about public networks and energy and is in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u105	Finish it, my colleague. You've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u106	Wait a minute, Mr. President. You said disarmament, Minister, to the committee that this is our ideology. 'We are in favour of individuals'. You are really implementing your ideas as a government, because it is not a memorial obligation to privatize. Fourthly, we have a government of interest. This is reflected in the provisions in town and country planning, but also in the new amendments, without any rules. Investors in seriousness cannot invest when things are not clear. Of course, you may not want serious, but opportunistic. It is a government of hypocrisy, 'green Prime Minister', Mr Mitsotakis, degreasement, not carbonisation, faster than other countries, without social awareness of consequences and without a specific programme and with gas that is essentially fossil fuel, while Europe is talking about carbonisation, and that is what the green agreement says. And I close by saying that our country has also referred to air pollution, a serious issue. Here, along with the issue of waste management, there must be a holistic plan, because successfully dealing with the consequences, whether the consequences of the management of waste, as well as atmospheric pollution, need concrete actions. From there on, with the draft law you are bringing us before us, away from what Europe says, but quickly the situation will change and there will be a democratic progressive government for the benefit of the many and not the few. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u107	I too am grateful, but I very much ask all the speakers to keep time and to show respect for colleagues. There's no other way. There's no one else to speak for seven minutes and another ten. We still have twenty-five speakers. Parliamentary representatives have not spoken and we will have to reduce the time in a few minutes. Mr Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement and then Mr Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, will speak. Mr. Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in plenary today on a comprehensive waste management plan in our country - once again outside the framework of good legislation - by incorporating two Community directives to this end, highlights the government's ambitious objectives, but not matched by the real situation and the way in which a serious and reliable waste management framework can be implemented in practice. It is an important issue, with immediate effects on the environment, climate change, and people's quality of life, especially in large urban centres. We agree, we are positive in the recycling process, but before we get there, an integrated waste management policy begins from prevention through the active involvement of citizens with appropriate information and treatment in schools, and the reuse process also takes precedence over environmental waste management. The arithmetic targets for the recycling of municipal waste from 20%, which is now gradually 65% in 2035, and the recycling of packaging, so that it reaches 70% in 2030, are also opening up the way for the incineration of waste, speaking indefinitely about the creation of a network of energy recovery units. The burning of waste, however, is not in line with the directives that we are currently bringing for integration, particularly in order to try to sort in separate streams. In addition, there is provision for a number of obligations to the municipalities along with sanctions and fines and, of course, any sanctions and fines will only be borne by the citizens, and above all, there is political responsibility, as all this, as they are institutionalised, create reasonable questions about the results to be achieved, but also at an economic and material level for the proper use and channelling of the resources of the Recovery Fund for recycling. Questions already raised by our special speaker, Mr Arvanitides, as well as our concerns on these issues. The creation of recycling infrastructure in our country should be a priority for creating added value for simply absorbing resources from the Recovery Fund for the green transition. Along with the changes and the need to strengthen the human resources and resources of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, EEAN. Also, with regard to town planning provisions, it is reasonable for the electronic identity of a building to transfer this registration to January 2022, after practically - under the existing conditions of the pandemic and summer season - the deadline until September does not serve both the citizens and the professionals involved in this process, (mechanicals, notaries, etc.).). I would also like to stress the existing risk of creating more problems and new serious issues within cities, since the relevant provisions provide for the expansion of urban areas which can become building blockers, by abolishing the relevant provision of Law 4495/2017, which included specific restrictions and conditions. The transfer of a building coefficient has caused a great deal of discussion since the first period of application. From a measure to restore injustices from the non-use of property we have led to exaggerations and alterations of residential character, as there is a corresponding risk from the provisions promoted for the exploitation of land. We have lived through the circumvention of corresponding forecasts in the past. I'm moving on to energy issues. It is planned to develop photovoltaic stations in saturation areas with up to 400KW each, with the new electric space of 86MW in the Peloponnese, 45MW in the Cyclades, 400MW in Crete and 40MW in Evia. Regarding the guarantee letters and new photovoltaic licenses in the areas with a saturated network, we consider that it is unfair and unjust to arbitrarily double from EUR 16,800 to EUR 33,600 for potential investors in these areas in relation to the rest of the country. The relevant legislation leads once again to the purchase of photovoltaics to large investors and not to small and medium-sized and energy communities. We had proposed the guarantee for applications for photovoltaic and wind power stations and the previous Minister had not accepted it. However, the logic of the extremes, as shown by this 100% increase in the guarantee, does not prevail here. On the other hand, requests are made to a large extent and production attestations throughout the country are made simpler by the RAE. Minister, I would like to take the opportunity of this debate to emphasise the need to revise the EIA legislative framework. There is a question of the approval and licensing or installation procedures for those who arrive at this stage. The first-stage allocation of production attestations, with an application and a general assessment of only technological and economic elements, results in the binding of the areas even of an entire prefecture, giving production attestations without even checking the possibility of setting up and developing an RES unit or also checking whether the proposed investor can have that area. It binds the area and everything follows in the next stages, without local bodies knowing something. As a result, there is an upheaval in local communities when there is no integrated planning and spatial development framework for RES by region. In addition, there is no protection of productive areas or provision for impacts on other existing activities, such as livestock farming in areas where no design is developed photovoltaic or wind farms mainly: or contrary to other local development plans. Of course people wonder, what is this design on the RAE map in a prefecture that all look blue, yellow and red? There must be changes, Minister, in this context, in order not to get to the point, that the energy-friendly environment-friendly RES is considered to be hostile to local communities, the natural environment and local activities. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in this bill with the provisions on the very serious issue of recycling, there are many points which concern the way in which these very ambitious objectives it sets out, but there is also a lack of an integrated waste management plan from production to recycling and the use of recycled materials. As there are many concerns about the other provisions, town planning, energy issues, etc., which we have reservations about, but we have tabled our proposals as well and we are waiting for the government's responses. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Goka. Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr.Michalis Katrinis has the floor and I will immediately give the floor to Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas from the Greek Solution. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hellenism exists as long as it does not forget its history and none of us forget, no one will ever forget that, like today, forty-seven years ago, Turkey carried out a military invasion of Cyprus. The occupation of 40% of Cyprus by Turkey is not a Greek-Turkish difference. It is an international problem, linked to the occupation of a part of an independent country and indeed a member of the European Union by a foreign force. This is the real dimension that we must constantly remind friends and allies and especially the European Union, which must at some point realise that there is no European idea, that there is no European integration when a policy of equal distance is observed, when in the name of interests the victims are treated as victims. The solution of the Cyprus issue must be based on the UN resolutions. Neither two states nor a loose federation, which will give Turkey the right to exercise control over Cyprus, because forty-seven years later Turkey continues to be what it has always been, an expansionary and reviewing force that systematically violates the rules of international law. Mr Erdogan, with his presence in Cyprus and the messages he sends, has already humiliated the policy of soothing and retreat that Mr Mitsotakis has adopted. The Turkish President's presence in Cyprus on the black anniversary of today's invasion is a presence - a challenge not only for Greece and Cyprus, but also for the historical memory of the international community itself. The announcements, and the partial opening of Famagusta, are completely violating the decisions of the UN Security Council. They show clearly that they do not take into account any resolutions by the United Nations, no verbal warning from the European Union. Now, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs states that illegal acts will not remain unanswered. And Greek Prime Minister denounces Erdogan's announcements. But when Mr Mitsotakis was trying to invade Evros, led by the deep Turkish state, instead of calling for the European Union Leaders' Board to be convened, did he not have a sense of this risk? When Turkey broke into the Greek continental shelf and our sovereign rights last summer, Mr Mitsotakis again listened to Mrs Merkel and did not demand sanctions against Turkey, sanctions regarding Turkey's customs link - the European Union. When Mr. McCron proposed to Greece a mutual military assistance agreement, the Greek Prime Minister preferred to send Mrs. Surani to Berlin to meet Mr. Kalin. We would not know of any of this if the Turkish Foreign Minister hadn't revealed it. Really, why did he reveal them? But simply for Turkish claims to be recorded as a fait accompli and as the subject of negotiation to be accepted by our country of Turkish challenges. So far, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis has been listening to Mrs Merkel. It is time for the Greek people to listen, because the policy of resentment does not lead anywhere. We won't have a war, but it's time to show that we're not afraid. We are determined to defend our sovereign rights and use the veto. But to use it at last in all the European Union's decisions concerning the neighbouring country. Whatever that means, at any price against theoretical and supposed friends. That's what's going on outside the country. Now we're going to what's going on in the country. You continue to the government on the same road. You make the same mistakes. Expose as government. Unfortunately, however, you are also exposing the country. It's like you want to blackmail the good news that they don't finally come. Because you're trapped in the arrogance and in the bars of the polling. You are in a hurry to dismiss the burden caused by the pressure of responsibility. But the responsibilities are entirely yours and you need to take them at some point. It's all the others' fault. It's the Opposition, it's the young people's fault, it's the tourists' fault, it's the shopkeepers' fault. It's never your fault. And you're constantly threatening them all, because you're thinking, so you're acting. Fear, threat, pressure, fines, instead of persuasives, consultation, dialogue and consensus. But you need polarization from what you see. You pursue it, because without it, it seems your deeply conservative ideological stigma and the deep class social stigma of any governmental action. And since we are talking about action, let us see, for example, what you have done for tourism. The Government has very simply confirmed that it has opened up tourism without any plan. The only project he had was to promise everyone a careless and safe summer and to make waste estimates of revenues initially 60% and then 50% of revenues from 2019. Of course the forecasts have unfortunately been disproved from reality itself. But what does it mean to open tourism safely? It means two things that appear to the government are completely ignored. It means plan, it means preparation. Has there been a priority vaccination plan for tourist destinations in time, for tourist workers and for tourism-related transport? At the last moment, the government was running to open a vaccination centre in Rhodes, not to mention other examples, because it won't be enough. Is there a framework for reliable checks, both in relation to checks on entry into tourist destinations and in relation to checks on the application of health measures? Mykonos - a classic, crystal-clear example - was one of the few regions with a high rate of vaccination, which reached over 80%. Therefore, the exacerbation of cases is due to poor checks, both at entry and when the measures are implemented. You have just announced that the containment measures will be lifted at six days. I hope they are based on health indicators. It's this front - back that the government's doing. He likes that. As also, today, we have heard the Minister of Finance for the first time saying that we are likely to take new financial support measures when the financial staff together breaks down their garments that no new support measures will be given. In fact, the Minister of Development said there was no money for new measures. Are you strengthening health structures in areas which are tourist destinations? On islands like Corfu, Rhodes, Kos hospitals are subordinated to basic specialties. Can they deal with incidents in an outbreak? I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that with the image that has been created, there will be countries, tourist markets for Greece, which will take measures that - I am afraid - will be a happy shot for our tourism. I hope to be disproved, but I fear that the repatriations of the government do not lead to good results and the losses to tourism will be enormous. As great is the opportunity that is being lost in the draft legislation we are debating today on waste management. For decades the collection and management of waste and waste from all kinds by the central administration and stakeholders has demonstrated the pathogens that exist throughout their management cycle. Let's be honest. It's a time-consuming problem. The abstention, multilingualism, procrastination, non-existence of control on this issue have led to the division of many times of local societies, even in judicial involvements that have reached European courts and fines for our country of tens of millions of euros. It was not very few to discover that various CVTs were working poorly, and in several cases serious infringements were identified, related to environmental pollution and the risk of human health, as demonstrated by various checks carried out by the Greek inspection body. The government has to focus on the citizens, and even more so on the younger generations, on increasing environmental awareness through a dialogue which has not taken place in this bill and focuses mainly on prevention, where several actions could be financed, on re-use, with the creation of repair and re-use centres for certain categories of objects, and recycling, with effective screening at the source of separate flows of recyclable materials. Is this about this bill? I shall refer to specific points. First of all, all the estimates included are very optimistic, but the targets are probably not going to be achieved, such as burial with the forecast to reduce from 80% to 10% over nine years. It is clear that you want to create impressions. Has the government prepared the recyclable reception infrastructure on the basis of the objectives it sets itself and what is the added value for the country from using the resources of the Recovery Fund and in this neural sector? Does, as a whole, have the plan to make use of the Recovery Fund, the government is only struggling for the rapid absorption of resources through the foreign technology market without building up recyclable material utilization infrastructure for the country? In addition, a number of obligations are imposed on the municipalities, in fact with financial penalties if they do not comply, in which it is doubtful whether the OTAs are in a position to respond with the means and personnel they have, so that the costs of non-compliance are ultimately borne by the citizens. It is unfair, and I think it is unjust, because there is also a lack of responsibilities for the central administration and the transfer to self-government, and ultimately at the cost of the citizens. In 2021, the Government also opts for anachronistic processes, with the creation of a waste incineration plant, in order to recover some of the energy. This is despite the fact that in the rest of the European Union in recent years the burning of waste has been an ineligible cost for funding from the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Investment Bank. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm gonna need two more minutes, please. In fact, the European Union has recently published a classification of sustainable investments and burning is not included in them because of its impact. The European Union aims to become a zero-carbon community and all the Member States are moving in this direction. Everything? Not obviously, except for our country according to this bill. In other words, burning or any heat treatment process chosen, in addition to being accurate and ineffective, will be one of the main obstacles to Greece's progress towards a neutral carbon emissions balance. Countries such as Sweden, which have been characterised by many as a success story in waste management, and Denmark, which is a world leader in the incineration of domestic waste, are led to a shift in their policy of seeking other solutions than burning. Furthermore, an example of the mismanagement of the administration continued by this bill is the electricity market in the green energy sector. The preliminary dialogue and the preconceived decisions in recent years have created uncertainty among investors, as there is no - and continues with this draft law to confirm this - a stable investment framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u111	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Government insists on putting pressure on small and medium-sized investors by doubling the amount of the guarantee letter submitted by submitting an application for a link for the regions with a saturated network, but also by providing a guarantee letter of EUR 35,000 per area for the issue of a producer certificate or a certificate of special projects. So we would say that the government is introducing a real cut, which will undoubtedly put out all the small and medium-sized existing and potential investors. So, as it is already difficult to get permission, it is now becoming even more complicated. Clearly, with this bill, the government shows its preference to the few and chosen ones, prefers a market that is 'carved' and controlled, and this is a more general aim of the government and the plan 'Greece 2.0', which deals with and has been announced as a use of the recovery fund for many, but ultimately ends up being a process of a fast-track absorption of resources, with the introduction of foreign technology equipment and obviously for the benefit of the few, large and not necessarily domestic companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is very serious. First of all today is the clear day of Attila's invasion, creating this pseudo-state of shame worldwide. As we talk about the environment today, we will see, in the short time that I have, because it takes a lot of analysis and a lot of talk about this, how Turkey is in breach of the environment right now, and we should have made it a flag, and Mr Denkias and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkey that violates the Finnish Esposo Treaty in respect of nuclear matters. We'll see if we have any time, even in the short term. The special speaker, Mr. Villardus, told you in detail. Our President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, with regard to this study, has told you this drunkenness you show in recyclable energy sources in terms of wind turbines and photovoltaics, and we will also see the violations of the law and the wind turbines, in accordance with European law, but also with photovoltaics. First of all, as a country, we have to accept that we are in the process of recycling. It's not the sorting of materials at the source, and that's what says it all. That is where the materials should be sorted, otherwise we will have the allegedly HYTOTAS, which should be HYTOH, they should be landfill sites and not waste. Because one could reasonably say that HYTA is just a modern dump, a modern HIDA. The evidence indicates that 80% of us have in our country is HYTA or HYDRA. To avoid unfairness, the effort that has been made in recent years to close uncontrolled landfills, yes, it is good and we have reduced the fines of up to EUR 1,250,000 less than in previous years, but we are still far behind in the matter of uncontrolled landfills, especially on our islands and not just on our islands. There's a reduction, that's what the figures show in urban waste. But here, ladies and gentlemen, we must adopt a rational management policy on waste, which we do not have. And this starts with a culture, with an education that we need to inflame children, but a commendable effort needs to be made. There was an effort in Epirus, so I wouldn't be wronged there by the waste treatment plant that was carried out in the Dodonis Eleftherios. We in the Greek Solution are always talking with evidence, with arguments and we are not wronged by some efforts that have been made. So the sorting must be done at the source, but when you talk about burning, gentlemen, I remember that in 2009 I visited a waste incineration plant in Belgium and the Belgians, while it was a modern, modern factory, they said we should shut it down, because the burning method is obsolete, it is antiquated and at great cost. That is, for example, incineration in relation to landfill, soil burial - because it is usually customary in Greece to have land burial and we are now talking about burning - it costs 100 euros tone, while 50 euros are tonne in so-called 'territorial'. This is the cost, of course, of transferring it to the taxpayers' tax. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Let me remind you that in 2003 the municipalities had been given money to make an information campaign, namely that the citizens were not informed, but that they changed the codes of money, they went elsewhere - where the municipalities needed it most - and that information campaign to the citizens was left behind. So the municipalities have their sins, too. We are now going on the wind turbines issue that we referred to in the Greek Solution. Let me tell you that there is a complaint, first, from the "Greek Ornithological Company" and from the "Greek Nature Protection Company" for the wind power plants. And I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is Article 6(3) of the European Union Directive 92/43/EEC not taken into account for all wind turbines that have been made within protected areas of NATURA 2000? There's the S.T.E. What's he doing? Should it not be respected and brought into line with this directive? I would remind you that there is a case of C290/15, where Belgium was convicted of this because the European acquis, European law, is being violated there. This European law is violated by the courts themselves with regard to wind turbines uncontrolled in areas protected. And there we are talking about rare species of birds, such as the vulture, the black man, the Egyptian vulture. They are threatened, that is, the threat of flora and fauna. This is the first sin with wind turbines we've reported in detail and how to burial the wind turbines of wind turbines that enter fertile and rare earths, enter high natural areas. Changes the architectural print on the Cyclades with the wind turbines you've put on the islands. As far as wind turbines are concerned, there have been complaints about thousands of applications. We are talking about several islands, five thousand wind turbines that go into fourteen islands of the southern Aegean. We're talking about five thousand wind turbines. Go and see, it says the "Greek Ornithological Society", which downloads these elements. Let's go to the photovoltaics now. Let me remind you that the farmers had given them loans to make photovoltaic parks subsidizing the kilowattage now with forty-five minutes from the European Union and coming up to big companies making large photovoltaic parks and returning to all farmers. The young farmers received the fine loans, mainly up to 40 years old, for the business and stayed outside large companies, mainly Spanish, in many parts of Greece. As far as photovoltaics are concerned, you do not take into account L.4643/2019 FEK 193, which says that when you go to give your area to a company, through the Energy Regulatory Authority, to build a PV park, there must be a title of ownership. Why am I saying that? Because of the six thousand four hundred applications for photovoltaic parks in Central and Thessaly, the Livadeas Agricultural Association - not me, the Livadeas Rural Association says these, gentlemen, enter and see - most of them are not entitled to ownership. So, what did RAE do? He took the fields without property titles and sold them to construction companies. These are the sins, please, with the photovoltaic parks we could talk to. Because what do the Livadia Agricultural Association and the evidence say here? That you don't do it in areas that aren't of high fertility. It is ninety times more than those with high growing potential. Why am I saying that? We lost good fields in Thessaly and Central to put photovoltaic parks in. The same goes for areas of the highest natural nature, protected, with wind turbines. Let's change the architectural print and hit the primary sector with quality characteristics or landscape architecture in so-called 'good fields'? Tourism, which is another industry in Greece, why is it coming? To make a beautiful sunset in the Cyclades. What would he get out there? The huge wind turbines, serving monopolistic interests? I also welcome Mr. Tsipras, Chief of Officer's Response. And since you are here, we are going to another serious issue, Mr President, which is at this moment - as we are talking about environment - the Auyu nuclear reactor in Turkey, which we have done absolutely nothing, gentlemen. There is a Turkish MP of the kemalian party, Alba Sazir, and five hundred mechanical Turks who denounce Erdogan, who makes him a seismic region, in the province of Mersin, across Cyprus, who has given earthquakes above eight degrees of the Richter scale many years ago. But the Turks here what are they doing? They're violating the Finnish Espo Treaty. What does this treaty say? That they should inform the neighbouring states, including Greece, of a step forward for the nuclear reactor they are building, which is made by a reactor, gentlemen, by the 'ROSATOM', the Russian company, with a climate standard for Russia, which is neither morphologically nor climatically consistent. The problem with the earthquake is not the reactor itself. It's cooling. How much will it produce? Thirty billion pounds a year. When will it work? In 2023 it starts. Is Article 10 now in place, which says to the individual committee? When a country considers that for reasons of high national security it has the nuclear reactor, it shall not be prohibited to carry out any checks. What's going on now? Who says it? Mr. Cartalis, Mr. Christofias, from Cyprus, says so, Mr. Lekkas, geologist, about these consequences. These are findings from university professors, seismologists, geologists, teachers of nuclear physics, like Mr. Cartalis, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u115	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u116	I'm closing, Madam President. So they say that in thirty-six hours our islands have been destroyed, because the currents of the air are to Greece. And while there is a complaint from members of the opposition and from five hundred engineers, if, in accordance with Article 10, Turkey claims grounds of the highest national security, any control will be prohibited. Here is a clear plan for building a nuclear bomb in Turkey, which in five years will produce plutonium. He doesn't have the know-how to go to decommissioning. But Pakistan has. The Japanese have already left. I say this, if we want to preserve from the wounds that we have, such as the Auntyu nuclear reactor and the Kozloduy reactor, which also has major leaks since 1972 built, or what Turkey has in its programme to build in East Thrace...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u117	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u118	What land are we going to deliver to the next generations, and what danger are we going to get into what is called the Balkan nuclears? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Tsipras, now has the floor. Come on, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. I do not know, Mr President, that you have just come down from the Step if Turkey will be able to build nuclear power in a few years, as you said. I know, however, that at the moment we are talking about there is a nuclear bomb on the foundations of Greek society. We called it two months, three months. I have tabled three topical questions to Mr Mitsotakis. He reckoned he'd come back and answer me. And I am glad that Mrs Kerameos is here, who put the bomb on the foundations of Greek society and, in particular, on our educational system, in order to serve interests - and I will say it very clearly - from the very beginning. Because we told you that in the way you legislate, you leave out of university institutions more than twenty thousand students who could have entered higher education. Over twenty thousand students. Twenty-three thousand analysts say. And their families today are looking for a way to cope with this failure, which is deliberate failure. You exclude these children from higher education and, in fact, by changing the system of introduction to a year that, in general, was the most difficult year for every student and student who has given an examination in Greece, in a year with schools closed half a year, in a year of insecurity for every Greek citizen, with lockdown, which these children have not been able to go to school for half a year to study directly, by living, with their teachers and teachers, who have not been able to see their classmates. For the first time, you change the way in which you enter higher education so sketchy and so quickly and apply this change immediately, as if you wanted something. Either avenge someone or serve some interests. From the seventy - seven thousand lists of importers you announced, the positions that will be covered in universities appear to be close to the fifty thousand. It is the largest reduction in the number of admissions made in the country since the establishment of the first university, University of Athens, in 1837. And you do it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You told us that you did so very well because you were caught by the pain in the education and learning adequacy of the new generation and that you would stay out of those who, either way, are not worth the effort to continue their studies in higher education, because you cannot go through with a white glue or by writing three. Today it turns out it's not like that at all. Because, ultimately, many excellent students, gentlemen of the government - supposedly - stay out of HHS and many of them will not even be able to submit computers. Because the different minimum import base per section and the gravity factors of the courses considered in the molecules calculation will exclude from universities many more students and students than those who have grades below the minimum import bases per field of science. According to calculations - I repeat - serious analysts, candidates who have raised less molecules than others will be successful, while candidates with more molecules will be excluded from the universities. And if you don't believe me, Minister, I hope you read the letter of a student in the country's model school, who calls himself a'successful' letter. I am reading you an excerpt from this letter of Dionysus from - I repeat - a model school in the country. "I am a senior high school student and since today I am a failed excellent and participated in this year's pan-Hellenic exams, aiming to enter the Architecture School of the National Technical University of Athens. I managed to raise 20 thousand nine hundred eighty eighty-eight molecules in total, that is a thousand eighty-eighty-eight over last year's base. But today I learned that, even though I have emptied, I will not be able to enter the National Technical University or my second choice, which was the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. This is because in the free plan my score was 13.6 points, while the minimum base of the corresponding special course was 14.03 points. So for 0,43 units in my free plan, I lacked the place for which I fought." What do you have to answer, not to me, in Dionysi, an excellent student from the 1st Athens Standard? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] He's not only a student. It's hundreds of these kids. And there are thousands of children who will have the fate of the Dionysus. Do you have the courage to look at these students in the eyes, Mrs. Minister, who as another Herod come and slaughter over twenty thousand young people, their dreams? Aren't you thinking about their families? Why? Why did you dill, Madame, and I'll tell you directly, with college owners. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u121	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u122	So don't answer me today. The Dionysus to answer. Thousands of young people to answer. Their families to answer. And in any case, if what concerns you is the learning capacity of our students, why does it not concern you for those who will acquire diplomas of private education, which, above all, in amendments, have you ensured that you equate and have made sure that the chambers of the country and the trade unions have equal status in their records the graduates of these private schools? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why, in short, since you are putting a basis for admission to the public university, do you not put a basis for admission to private colleges? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There, however, is only the basis for parental income and financial capacity. Anyone who has to pay comes in. Mr. Mitsotakis said so, of course. We shouldn't all go to college. And those parents who have something to sell or be charged, get a loan, let their children send to private colleges. And at this point I want to make it clear: I don't have anything or any of us with private colleges or children who have the financial potential and give them a second chance and send them there. What I have a problem with is the misery of Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Keramos to drive with that I want thousands of students there while they could study in public universities. I shall tell you, then, directly: it is a premeditated crime that the blockade of twenty to thirty thousand students from public universities is one of premeditated crime, which is not only for these children and their families, but also for a number of university schools and departments, especially in the region - because this is your second purpose, apart from serving private interests - where these departments will not have students' competence in the coming years and will be brought to a turbulence or closure. In a few words - I say this again - your government and you personally - but in particular, the Prime Minister with responsibility - is proved to be the biggest dealers of interest ever passed by the government headquarters of this country. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] And I will tell you, Minister, since you are here today, that it will only be worth one thing to do: go up to this Step here - I do not know why your presence is and whether you have any amendments to put forward - and admit that what is being done is unfair, particularly in the conditions of the pandemic crisis. And you still have time. The deadline for the submission of computers for students has not been closed. Get that abortion back! Do not apply the minimum import base, at least this year. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Give the over twenty thousand students the opportunity to complete computers like last year and to fill all the vacant posts in the universities. Do not proceed to a crime against thousands of young people and their families! Let me say a few words, Madam President, before I enter the bill currently being discussed, on the situation in the country in relation to the development of the pandemic. Unfortunately, the administration of government against the health crisis is also disastrous. And I think that nowadays, a phrase comes constantly in the minds of the citizens, who live in stress and insecurity. And that phrase is: 'Everything the same'. Are we again in front of the same shortcomings, in the same obsessions, in the same weaknesses, in the same amateur design? Again, have you made the political choice to open up everything by dropping the standards of health security? Did you once win the coronary again and celebrate for the second time in a year, did you drop the standard, cultivate the reassurance? I remember the Prime Minister a month and a half ago to interview the German "BILD" and say that we will have a normal summer this year, a normal July and August, and the Minister of Tourism to declare that Greece's shield against the "Delta" mutation will become its best advertisement. And where are we today? Today we are in the fourth wave and your responsibilities are now criminal, because you have again put communication above substance. The signal of relaxation, in order to serve the record of success, has again led to the devaluation of risk, and has threatened lives again, so that we have disastrous backwards in the economy. Citizens, workers and entrepreneurs are waiting for answers and a plan. You decided the day before yesterday a mini-lockdown in Mykonos, in the heart of summer, with all the signs that this gives abroad, internationally, on the course of the country's tourism throughout the country. But here I have some questions to ask: Mykonos has a rate of vaccination among the inhabitants and workers close to 95%, and it is assumed that tourists arriving on the islands pass through controls. So how did you again blow up public health and the country's most internationally flagic tourist destination in the heart of the tourist season? How did you again manage to end up in another fiasco at the expense of public health, but also at the expense of workers, entrepreneurs and tourists? Is that the normal summer that the Prime Minister was giving us? You're making the same criminal mistakes again. Instead of sanitary shielding of the islands, instead of extensive testing and reliable tracing and accelerating vaccinations, you celebrated, congratulate each other! You have addressed the proposal that we tabled for priority vaccination of workers in tourism. Started vaccination of islanders ahead of a tourist season with a delay. But you have failed - most importantly - to convince the citizens to be vaccinated by throwing water into the mill of the question with the recurring relics you have made with AstraZeneca and with the vulgar pockets for the acquisition of young people. And you're constantly throwing the ball of responsibility elsewhere, to shipping companies that don't do audits, to businessmen who don't carry out any checks. The state, however, is nonexistent. Ask a man who has travelled so far to tell you about the misery of checks. So we have reached the point that our islands and not only Mykonos have a terrible increase in cases, while almost all the people there are vaccinated. You ignored the self-evident need for EGE to do massive testing on all tourist destinations. ‘Do self-test and your responsibility’, this is the answer. You have no responsibility. This is the message you sent to open the tourism. You ignored our call to strengthen the primary health care structures of the National Health System on the islands, but even more about the need for the state to anticipate - this year is the second year, we have learned the weaknesses, we should have learned - quarantine hotels in tourist destinations. The result is the tourists who are ill have no place to stay and the country is being smashed internationally. Did you see the eighteen-year-olds who stayed one day in a parking lot in Paros without having where to go or didn't you see them? Did you hear this incredible report from the father of a family with a baby that the mother experienced and tried to find out where to stay in Alonissos and finally stay on the street, because there was no quarantine hotel? Did you see all this? Did you hear all this? Who, then, is it that discredits the country abroad by telling the truth? We, who have been telling you so long to go ahead with specific proposals to prevent adverse effects, or you, which, for another year, opened tourism without measures, sloppy? There are only forty quarantine hotels in the country. Is it possible to suffice? And within all of this, your permanent answer when the thing goes wrong is splitting. You insist on constantly talking about returning to normality only for vaccinated ones. But with the other half of Greece - because at the moment we are close to 45% - of the uninvasive people, what do you intend to do? Disappear her? And how do you think that half of us, the vaccinated, will be safe when the other half won't be vaccinated? Haven't you heard so long that the World Health Organisation says that no one can be safe when not everyone is safe? You're messing with young people all the time. But, right now, we have over a million unvaccinant people who are fifty years old and over, that is, at critical ages to get sick. And you're threatening the world. Penalties and threats for non-vaccinated people will not result in any effect. And the debate you opened for compulsory vaccination is proof of your failure to convince citizens. For you have wasted a sack of money from the public fund to have the channels say what effective our media is, Mr Mitsotakis, and not what effective the vaccine is and to try to convince citizens and answer questions. And I tell you today once again. Stop this debate, the biscuit debate on compulsory vaccination. Try to convince the citizens, not blackmail them. You'll get the opposite results. And leave the division and the divisions. Because apart from socially dangerous, it's also healthly dangerous. The vaccine saves lives. The vaccination of all of us is a necessary weapon against the disease. But you must not give the impression even to a vaccinated person that there is no danger that he can conspirate and entertain without a mask in enclosed areas. It's wrong. See the evidence presented yesterday by the British Ministry of Health. A large proportion of those in British hospitals are vaccinated, and even twice. I'm sure if they hadn't been vaccinated, they would have had worse luck anyway, and I'm sure the majority of those who are vaccinated avoid disease. However, do not give a signal of absolute relaxation while the virus is among us. And finally stop this nonsense by separating, threatening and splitting. I'm coming to the bill issues. First of all we must realise, Mr Screka, Minister, that these are very serious issues, to be dealt with with with last minute and foot amendments. As far as I am concerned, last night the vote was taken, you will forgive me for the expression. And besides - I will say about the substance - of the fact that legally they are problematic, and in essence they are problematic, I think that you are not giving us the right signal, not only for the procedures of good legislature, but also because the subject we are discussing, which concerns the more general issue of environmental protection, is a matter that we should all find in agreement on its criticality, but also give us time for real consultation. The issues of the climate crisis, climate change, are a major issue. And if we don't want to have them in the priority of our agenda, life itself puts them on us. Look at what has happened these days in Central Europe and Western Europe with the hundreds dead - eighty-eighty has reached the number - and the extensive disasters in Germany and Belgium. And of course, we also see phenomena in our country - and here and today - which make us realise that we are facing a crisis and we must act without delay. And that is why I would like to say at this point and in quotes that the climate law for which the Prime Minister has committed himself to Parliament is urgent and you have not yet given a text in consultation. Greece can't stay back waiting. Climate law is an important part of our programming commitments to us. We have already announced that we support the bottom-up preparation of climate law. We have said so to the environmental NGOs and to the House and we will defend such a process. For us - I repeat - climate law and in general green climate change should be characterised by energy justice and democracy. And this has to do with the way in which we are discussing and deciding. But let us go to the current situation in the energy sector and to the interventions you are trying to make, where it really proves to be ideological and perhaps short-sighted about the major challenges of the time. The first part is privatisation. The only strategic choice of the New Democracy Government in the energy sector is privatisation at the expense of the public interest and society. And in this bill, you bring in a legislative arrangement to sell out another critical infrastructure for the green transition, the electricity distribution network manager, the DEDEN. You are doing this first, to remind them of them too, you have given gold bonuses - not you, but the previous, your predecessor - hundreds of thousands of euros to the blue children in PPC, to the DEDDIE, which, of course, consumers pay, with very significant increases that they have seen in their account, and while on 15 July binding offers were submitted for the sale of 100% of the Infrastructures and yet you completed another step for the distribution of the natural gas network to a private person. You are canceling everything we have done under very hard pressure then to the lenders, namely public control over the energy networks. And you cancel it without any pressure - you testify without wood, which the proverb says - without any pressure from any loan contract, from any memorandum, from any programme, from any directive or from any other obligation of the country. A private monopoly will now be what will decide, of course, on the basis of private profits, and will decide whether or not which households and which businesses, in which areas of Greece will have access to natural gas. You are thus creating regional disparities and jeopardising the expansion of the gas network in the country, as the criterion, I repeat, will only be private profits. You are delivering a strategic tool of the state towards the green transition and transformation of our energy system, and you are handing it over with a dowry. The second part is the market and the cost of energy. You are setting up here with a delayed mechanism for monitoring and monitoring markets by the RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority. You are doing so after you first launched the electricity price for both businesses and households, and after the wholesale record and the grievance all over 2020, after you left manipulation in the price of electricity uncontrolled. And I would like to warn you, Minister, that, after the summer, both consumers, households and businesses will see new, large, huge increases in their accounts. And these huge increases in accounts come at a time when purchasing power, income of workers and households has fallen very low. And in this way, every anticipation has been made when you were elected, by telling the Greek people that you are supposed to create prospects for better jobs and better life with less taxes, because, when the price of electricity rises, at the same time, we are living this explosion of accuracy and the reduction of purchasing power, and income remains low, stable or lower, you realize that conditions, for both the middle class and the working people, for the vast majority of citizens, are dramatic. Thirdly, let me express the view, in the field of renewable sources, of the RES. Now in the RES market there are wild West conditions, without rules, especially after the famous Hatzidakis law, the environmentally friendly one, as we said. And I want to ask, Minister. Didn't you tell us that by law Hatzidakis you're simplifying the procedures of RES projects? Now, why are you coming back to correct it, after you have simplified it, and correct it with the infamous 'guarantee letter', allowing large companies only to obtain permits and, of course, to save banks, to make some profits? In other words, you continue to go without any plan for what we call 'energy democracy' and it is a prerequisite for us to proceed to the green transition. Your account of allegedly simplifying and speeding up the EIA licensing process, which you were using at the time. We had warned you then that not just will the process not accelerate, but you are in danger of creating overheating in the market. And, as all market players today admit, you create space for investors who have seen light and entered. Now you are trying to collect the bubble that jeopardizes the country's energy transition, since local societies are rising against the RES and this is a critical and very dangerous phenomenon. Result? No one knows today where renewable energy projects can be put in place. And that, I repeat, puts the green transition to the country at great risk, because the green transition must find the consensus of the vast majority of society and not be there for the negative ones, as we are today and for issues relating to public health. And, unfortunately, your disastrous environmental policy does not stop there. In the area of waste and recycling within the provisions of the directives you put the deep anti-environmental and non-transparent choices you have made in the last two years, the burning of waste, the privatisation of their management and the delay in recycling, where there are complaints and scandals, which of course will be time to discuss them, hundreds of millions of millions of people. You made a national planning with a preliminary consultation in August 2020, without coming to the House, which the NGOs, non-governmental organisations, denounced in relation to the promotion of combustion. Everything's stuck with your method. The municipalities don't get recycling equipment from the recycling systems. The separate collection is not progressing and the country is at risk of new fines. In short, I will say that the country is backwards with regard to the implementation of key reforms, reforms carried out by our own government in terms of waste management. People listen to screening at the source, but screening at the source don't see. And one final comment on the issue of the bill on land planning and town planning. The bill shows the view you have on spatial and urban planning. They are fragmentary and bulk provisions, in your effort, rather, to satisfy interests. It is clear that you do not want clear rules, but rather a model card with citizens in most cases hostages of this design. A number of extensions are being made, with the most hitching extension to draw up the special spatial plan in Eye by the Technical Chamber, for which Mr Mitsotakis was committed to a solution - I remind you - by the summer of 2020 and we have the summer of 2021 now. You're giving an extension for another year. Continuously amended provisions concerning the method of issuing building permits, the conditions of construction by hand, which short-circuit construction services, engineers and building activities, are being amended as long as the construction regulation changes every three months. And with the tragic and unacceptable amendments, as originally mentioned, that you put out the window last night, you are once again changing legislation on matters outside the construction plan. But the culmination, and I close with it, is that you make in this bill a grand window to cancel the design in an area and everyone interested in making a study that will change the uses of land and building factors. So I'll tell you in a few words. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have raised your rushfetti in science and you are also legislating it, that is what you are doing with this bill. Unfortunately, however, this will pay very much for the environment and also for growth. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In conclusion, with the same reproach and the same amateurism as you face the pandemic, the health crisis, with the same purpose as you serve private interests in the field of education, so with the same carelessness and with the same despicability you are dealing with the major issue of the climate crisis and the environment. So you are a government dangerous to public health. You are a government dangerous to the new generation and tomorrow's place, after you deprive yourself of knowledge of thousands of students and students, young people. You are a government dangerous to both the environment and the natural wealth of the country. The sooner, then, the alternative is given to the place, the better for the Greek people, for the natural environment and for social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister for Education has asked for the floor. Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, I am sorry that you are leaving the Chamber, your colleagues will be able to convey the information I would like to say in response to what you said before. While SYRIZA was government, he did two things in relation to what Mr. Tsipras said. Firstly, in relation to the introduction. It allowed students to enter the Greek public university having a performance of 0,6 at ‘20’, ‘1’ at ‘20’, ‘2’ at ‘20’, ‘3’ at ‘20’, ‘4’ at ‘20’. He so much wanted students to be enrolled, no matter whether they met the minimum academic requirements he has set up and the so-called 'green departments' - you say - without any examinations, all in the universities, without any concern for the graduation of these young people. And I say it because the results of your own policy are now being seen. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] At the moment we're talking, Mr. Chakaloto, and I'm saying this because I heard your speech before, what percentage of our students...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u125	You know what percentage...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u126	You know, Mr. Polakis, what percentage of our students enter and never graduate? A 40 percent. Four out of ten stays with a high school graduation certificate...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u127	You're talking bullshit, Mrs. Kerameau!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u128	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u129	Mr Colleague, please, let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u130	Answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Comrade, please, we're not at the cafeteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u132	I know very well where we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u133	Good! If you know, then don't talk and let the Minister finish, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u134	...and we're idiots.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u135	Please, Mr. Colleague, let the Minister finish. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u136	We entered Greek universities, Mrs. Kerameau entered?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u137	When you take the floor at the Stepma, you can answer the Minister whatever you want. Please. We're in plenary, we're not at the cafeteria. Let the Minister answer and then whoever wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u138	We're not fighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Comrade, please, I'm all fighting. Please. That's not a situation. It is not Parliament's picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u140	But is that an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u141	Whatever the Minister wants, she'll answer. Then take the floor, Mr. President. Whatever the Minister wants to say. No one has censored you when you get to Stepma. So let the other one answer as he wants. Please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u142	I am very pleased that society has the opportunity to see these. To see the behavior of all of us in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u143	What's to see? The kids who go to college because of you? They're taking the kids to college and you're happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Comrade, please. For Christ's sake! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, do me a favor. Let none of you speak. Let the Minister finish. Don't trade for each other whispers. Let the process be completed, please. This debate will not end anywhere. It's not right, and I'm saying it for all of you right now. Please in particular. And please from the Chair. Let the Minister speak and say whatever he wants. Parliamentary representatives can take the floor so to speak and to end the parliamentary procedure. If everyone yells in the Chamber the way you shout, we will have no effect on the process and you know it. And I'm addressing everyone right now. So please. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u145	So, Madam President, I was saying that the previous government, SYRIZA, allowed students to enter the Greek public university who achieved the performance "0.6" in "20", "1" in "20", "2" in "20", "3" in "20", "4" in "20", indifferent to whether these students would ever graduate. And I'm saying this because last days, data has been published, showing that our country has now gone to 40% of those who never graduate. Why is that a problem? Because we're enclaving our young people. We want our children to have perspective, to have courses, to have choices. But when you enter the university without fulfilling minimum academic requirements, you end up locked up. You end up with a high school rig without being able to take the step further. And it is very easy for politicians to say 'all free at universities', not to mention whether these children will come out. It is very easy to wear fruity hopes, rocked rabbits, no matter the perspective of these young people. It is no coincidence that one in four students in public IEK are a university graduate. He went to the university, he didn't get a job and then went to public IKK, to get a specialty that will enable him quickly to satisfy his ambition, to follow his preference. That's the one you did. The second thing you did is how did you do that? Where'd they all go? The government of SYRIZA has founded or ranked fifty or three new university departments. How? Here we were some when the SYRIZA MPs were coming with the last minute's parliamentary amendments and said to Mr Gavroglou 'please, in my region, build a section', five minutes before plenary is closed. These were SYRIZA days. Why were they doing this? In order to be able to enter the university with '0,6' and '1' and '2' and '3' in '20', no matter the number of graduation in one of these departments is three in a hundred years. The Engineer Departments took it from forty-seven to seventy-one. The Agronomics, from three to ten, no matter where all these new kids are going. Are they going out on the market? Will they have a perspective? We, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do not care to have only incomings, we are interested in having graduates, we are interested in the university opening our paths of life, not enclosing them, and for the first time this year, now that we are talking, our children who were candidates in the Pan-Hellenic, when they enter the Ministry of Education's site to submit their computers on the website, have two choices. They have computers for the university and they have computers to get into public IEK with skills that are very much demanded on the labour market - such as Web Designers or the Web Developers, such as tourist accommodation technicians - and with great prospects of professional rehabilitation. I come to the letter, the letter that Mr Tsipras read. This candidate against what he said achieved "13" in "20", "13,6" in "20", if I'm not mistaken, in the plan, to enter Architecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u146	Madam Minister, '0.4'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u147	I have it in front of me. I read it here, "13.6" in "20", to enter Architecture. Probably not last year would have entered the Architecture with "13.6" in "20". But here there is also a parameter, which is not negligible. All these years we have heard in our country that it is not possible for universities to have no say on the import criteria. And for the first time the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis gave reason and enabled universities to choose the basis rate. There are therefore architectural schools which have chosen bases to be at 80% of average performance. Others, be at 110%. We gave a speech to the universities. For example, in what you have studied, Mr Chakaloto, the university decides the import criteria. So we come as first government and say yes, our universities have a say. The specific Architecture has chosen a high scale factor. It was her choice. You've been saying lately - you've been building it - that there's gonna be twenty-five thousand more children than universities, thirty thousand more, forty thousand more. It's some of your communications. What's the reality? Based on the evidence to date, nine thousand. That's the reality. Nine thousand children more than last year who do not meet minimum academic requirements for these schools. And I'm coming from now on. Mr. Tsipras said: “Why did you do this? Dilarates.’ Were we dilling? Yes, sir! Ministerial Decision 11 July 2006. Government who was it? SYRIZA. Yes, sir. Minister who? Nicholas Friend. For the first time in history college graduates can enter the Greek public education system. And you did well because it was a Union obligation. But you did. So when you're talking about sewing, take a look at the house of the hanger. One could say that only Friend did it. Oh, no. Two years later, Constantine Gavroglou. Another ministerial decision, again graduates of colleges in the public education system. Who did this? Did SYRIZA? But that's your hypocrisy. You did something that you had to do, because it was a Union obligation, but you do not have the courage to think. And when the elections were approaching, they say, "Which, we should change it." That's what happened in practice. And I just want to close with one picture. That's the picture. I have the following in my hands: Announcement of SYRIZA yesterday. Incidentally, it says 'the announcement', I overlook it. Announcement by SYRIZA yesterday calling for a minimum base to be abolished. A poll last night, which says that more than 70% of society wants the minimum basis. But the best part isn't that. SYRIZA voters at more than 55% want the minimum basis. This is SYRIZA today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's the difference. This is Parliament's SYRIZA and this is society. Thank you very much. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. Mr Chakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u149	Why, Madam President? Did I not ask you to speak in time as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u150	He wants to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u151	Madam President, I am sorry, I would also like to make a statement on the Minutes. These are the ministerial decisions of SYRIZA, which, for the first time - I say again - are being placed in the public education system. Gabroglou decision, Phil decision. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Bukkaro, excuse me. You asked why to speak, not to ask. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u153	For my normal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u154	Good. I told you it was the Minister's first and then right after you. Come on, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u155	Madam President, I will apologise, because I am not used to saying serious words and you know that. But I am ashamed as a university politician of the level of Mrs Kerameau's answers to the President of SYRIZA. I am absolutely convinced that, following this reply, public education is not safe in the hands of such a Minister. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You must have been gone. But the first thing you had to do is answer at least some arguments. Instead, as a student of the "1,5" or "2,5", you responded as a politician without even answering the questions. How many students were with ‘1,5’ and ‘1,2’ and ‘2,5’? Did you tell us? You didn't tell us. The arguments two years ago and a year ago, did you hear the arguments? You know they're not alone how many are cut, but how many are cut off from first-choice schools? Do you know that there are sections that you were going in with eleven thousand molecules last year, and now with thirteen and fourteen thousand, you can't apply? Because you gave the departments the opportunity to upload the base, but they didn't have any motives if they took fewer students. They're not the district departments except they'll have fewer students. And excellent sections. Instead of answering, you used to what you're doing, deceive the public university so you could shrink it. Really, will you talk to teachers and students to any of the mergers, which are excellent departments, which do excellent work and research and teaching? Don't you know that? Or is it from "Moratis" that you don't go there and you don't care at all, why don't your children and all your children go to them? Excellent sections. Will you ever answer that? Do you know European regularity? Is it or is it not the tendency to push as many children as possible, not in training, in education, in education and in universities? Isn't that the trend? This is not what the countries of the European Union have agreed? No, huh? Decrease. Is that what you're saying? I'm really ashamed of you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I say this again, that you are the worst Minister of Education in the two hundred years of Hellenism. You are the only Minister of Education I know - and there are too many others, who were not perfect, not to say names - who are indifferent to the big body and to the students. The sooner you leave this post, the better for Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u156	Thank you. Madam Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u157	Maybe for Chief? I don't know! If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Chakalotos has studied at universities in England. There, Mr Tsakaloto, tell us, does anyone go with 0.6 in 20? Is he joining '1' in '20'? Does it have a graduation rate of 9%, as our country has? Because we are the first to the number of students entering and the last to those who graduate. You, then, may want to import all of Greece for temporary political benefit. But we want our children not just to give us votes, we want our children to graduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u158	You have no idea from universities! You don't know anything! It's dangerous! He doesn't know anything about universities! This Parliament is insulting! We've tolerated it for two years! She's irrelevant! It's indifferent!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u160	One word...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, a fine picture of Parliament seeing the entire Greek people! Don't shout. Don't yell, ladies and gentlemen. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Don't make me get you out. Please. Please. Mr. Tsakalotus set up. The Minister makes her own placement. I do not understand why this controversy is taking place in this way. Our shame is in here. It is a shame in Parliament to behave with a mob behaviour. It's a shame, Mr. Colleague. It's a shame. It's a disgrace to all of us in here. It's a disgrace. I'll repeat it for once, no matter how much you yell. Shame on us. Shame on us. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame for Members to have such behaviour in Parliament. Mr. Tsakalotos placed and said his opinion on the Minister. He said his opinion on the Ms. Minister. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And the Minister answers Mr. Tsakalotos. So I don't understand why this kind of behavior. He said his opinion and said it the way he chose, okay? I also think the Minister has a right to defend herself, but also to place herself in what Mr Chakalotos said. So please, very much, our behaviour is proportionate to the place where we are. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u162	It is commensurate with our responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u163	You're going to go up to the Stepma, Mr. Colleague, and you're going to say what you have, and here you're going to show your responsibility. So please. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u164	And I would like to end, Madam President, with something that concerns me very much. Mr Tsakalotos said that the trend is not for training, the trend is only for universities. Mr Tsakalotos said earlier that the international trend is only to go to universities and not to training. He said, for instance, 'not in training'. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Disprove it. Let us see it from the Minutes, Mr Chakaloto, if you said 'not in training'. So I ask: How much do you need for public training? I say this because for you there is only one way, the university. In all the other countries of the world there is another way, vocational education, training and yes, there are public IEKs, Mr Tsakalotes. You may despise them. You may look down from Oxford, but yes, there are public IEKs, which offer excellent skills to our children, where employment prospects are excellent and we really ought - as a society beyond parties - to highlight these alternatives to our young people and let young people make the choices they desire on the basis of their gradients, skills and preferences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u166	Madam President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is an environmental and energy bill. Next week we have the education bill, and I think that we can all be placed. The Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor, Mr Screkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me to begin by referring to some of the things that the President of the Civil Liberation Officer mentioned in his speech. Of course, he spoke thirty minutes and there were many inaccuracies. The most important part in terms of the bill we are debating today has reiterated what Mr Famelos said during the meetings of the committees, so it was only natural and next, after having repeated almost the same, to fall into the same errors, the same mistakes and the same inaccuracies. But let me mention something that has given me a special impression, because it has actually come and neither too much nor too much has said that the New Democracy Government is delaying what has to do with the actions to address the causes of climate change, but also with the moves that we must do to deal with and adapt to the effects of the climate crisis. I was really impressed by something. It is not here, of course, but it is a good thing to ask the honourable Members of the Civilian Opposition Party. Does he not know that in September 2019 the President of the Greek Government, the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the step of the UN meeting announced the rapid decarbonisation of Greek energy production, announcing that all the lignite plants of PPC will be withdrawn by 2028 and more specifically, after the latest announcements of PPC, all lignite plants will be withdrawn by 2023, except one, which will be converted into a power plant, using natural gas in 2025? Does Mr Tsipras not know that the main cause of climate change is the emissions of carbon dioxide and the main cause of emissions is electricity, when we use carbon and lignite? How, then, is it possible that the government, the lifting of lignite, the lifting of garbage in the streets of Corfu, Rhodes and elsewhere come today and call on the Government of New Democracy that it has supposedly not done what you did and did not support when the New Democracy did it and announced it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u169	What are you talking about, you liar? For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u170	I do not remember Mr. Tsipras, when Mr. Mitsotakis made announcements at the UN Summit in September 2019 in New York, to applaud, to agree, to applaud this decision by the Greek Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u171	Shall we applaud you have no plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u172	On the contrary, even now you are coming and sharing, when we saw your own national energy and climate plan. I invite you to read it, rapporteur and Parliamentary Representative, to read what the national energy and climate plan you inherited to the Government of New Democracy was. What about carbon dioxide emissions? What do you say about the actions we need to take to reduce the causes of climate change, which the President of the Officerate has allegedly come here and who has been sad indeed someone who is going on in Germany and other countries? So I want to say that you shouldn't come here and suddenly wear an environmentally friendly cloak when you've ruled four and a half years and your things are still fresh. The Greek people know what you have done and unfortunately you have done nothing, as you have done nothing, because what we have inherited is a country which, as many Members have said, is unfortunately a champion with regard to the waste of food, which is a reality when it comes to recycling solid urban waste and, of course, is a negative champion in terms of landfill, as it burys 80% of the urban waste it produces. Of course you've done nothing for four and a half years. I shall mention in detail one on what Mr Tsipras has unfortunately said, which Mr Famelos has said. It also mentioned a number of issues relating to the price of electricity. I understand that these things don't know very well. You do not know them very well, and that is why you cannot unfortunately tell us some things that are based on them. First of all, PPC has not increased its electricity prices in households.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u173	20%...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u174	PPC has tried to keep electricity prices stable in households, and even has announced specific commercial products, commercial invoices, at which the consumer can use and buy the current electricity prices for one year ahead, without having an extra charge and without this price, the tariff which will ultimately agree, be affected by the fluctuations in either carbon dioxide prices or gas and oil prices. We are telling you, we are telling you again, but you do not want to understand, you do not want to read, and unfortunately you cannot embrace it. Here's something you need to do, anyway, if you want to offer good services to the public and society. So you asked what we are going to do about the upcoming increase in electricity prices. I told you this: The New Democracy is the only government that has announced that it will make use of the sun, solar energy, so that it can feed homes EUR 30 000. We will make use of EUR 100 million from the Recovery Fund to build 120MW installed power photovoltaics, which will be offset by clocks, with 30 thousand vulnerable households counters first and we will supply them with very low electricity costs, almost zero. You don't want to understand it. You haven't done anything for four and a half years. We're here and we're making use of the sun. You could have done it then. There is money that you could use, money from the ESRB. You come here, you mistreated, you did nothing and you blame us for doing it. I repeat that this is the beginning, because this is an energy security net, a green energy security net, which we will apply precisely to protect those vulnerable fellow citizens who will also have to withstand the effects of the green energy transition that Europe has decided to make and which has an impact on carbon dioxide prices, which ultimately has an impact on electricity prices. It is a political decision that Europe should be the first climate-neutral continent by 2050 and you should tell us whether you agree or not. Do you agree with Europe's political decision or do you not agree? Are you with us in the attempt to lead Greece? Are you with the Greek Government, Greek society, to be able to withdraw lignite units, replace the exact lignite production with cheap solar energy, with cheap energy coming from the wind, with cheap energy coming from geothermality? Are you prepared to come and even use the waste that is currently being burialed for the purpose of electricity production, whether it is waste for the fodder and fodder, so that instead of being buried, instead of being buried in dumps, instead of ending up in the ravines and the fields, we can finally use it, produce electricity, and thus achieve the objectives of the green transition we want for Greece? Are you or aren't you with us? Say it clearly. As far as renewable energy is concerned, we have received a situation from the previous government that wanted too many steps so that we can really rationalise and move on a number of provisions so that we can facilitate the licensing process and enable investors to build, invest in renewable energy sources and thus achieve the goal of our country. This has, of course, caused some consequences in terms of excessive supply and thus overheating, as we have said, first of all, as far as the interest expressed by potential investors is concerned. Coming up and what do we do? We didn't say the enemy of good is not the best. We are the first to say that of course we have an existing framework and, as far as waste is concerned, we have existing directives, an existing national regulatory framework, which we come and improve. So we have a provision to do with the proof of economic power, the financial capacity of potential investors in the construction of such renewable sources. I don't know what the problem is. Didn't you tell us, do you support it or not? Will you vote or not? As you have not said, if you will vote on many other things that we are talking about, as far as the waste is concerned, when it comes to trying to raise awareness of society environmentally, so that we can participate and achieve the other national targets that are relevant to waste recycling. For the first time - I told you in committee too - we are creating an integrated waste management framework. We incorporate two European directives and update two legislative frameworks domestically so that we have everything within a text and that everyone can resort to it and have a clear picture. This in itself is a national reform, not to go back to different legislation, to various projects so that one can understand how the solid waste management system in our country operates today. I repeat that the central pillar of our legislative initiative is the development and consolidation of environmental awareness. We produce twenty-nine tonnes of solid waste per million of GDP, when the average European is half of our own. It is seventeen tonnes per million of GDP. So you understand that we are also first in the waste of food, we are first in the burial of urban waste, and we are last in recycling. That is why our objectives are clear. In other words, we must apply the basic principles of the cyclical economy. Strengthen recycling and thus lead to a reduction in burial and, of course, to a change in society's culture of waste management. The waste isn't garbage. Waste must not end up in landfills by 80%. Waste is natural resources which, if recovered correctly and recycled, can be raw materials for subsequent production processes. So all this philosophy needs to be changed, and that's what we're trying to do with the law we have. For the first time we bring a bill and cover the entire hierarchy under Union law. This is how we achieve a simplification of the legislative framework in principle. Where's your criticism focused? I have listened to you all, and I shall of course listen to the rest of the Members. It focuses on two things. The first is about the so-called promotion of combustion. You're stuck in this. We're telling you, we're telling you again, I'll tell you later. It has nothing to do with what you say about the draft law. You insist "burning, burning, burning" as if so much you love her, that you think that we are the ones who promote it. The second is the privatization of the waste management area. That's not right either. Of course, the second is getting in because of the stress that SYRIZA had after five years of governance to give a certificate of left-wing loyalty, after what you did after five years and, of course, the PPP, which was diligently brought to you, was updated and of course auctioned. You say that we do not respect citizens' hierarchy and promote burning. No more inaccurate. First of all, Article 4 refers specifically to the hierarchy of the waste, which is compulsory in the whole of the bill, since it expressly refers to twenty-three different points of the bill. In Article 16, promotion of sustainable production and consumption. That's not burning. In Article 17, an obligation to update repair and upgrade products. We are promoting the repair and relocation of products. It's not combustion. In Article 18, creation of Creative Reuse Centres, CIFs. It does not, of course, refer to combustion. In Article 19, a ban on the destruction of products. And that's not burning. In Article 20, a reduction in food waste. In Article 21, exploring the widening of tax incentives for donations to encourage again prevention and reuse. This diverts waste from leading us to lower stages of waste management that have to do with recycling or even energy recovery and end with burial. It's not combustion. Article 37, 'I pay as long as I fly'. If I don't fly too much, I pay less, so I don't drive to the waste bin of waste, so that's not burning. Article 78, prevention and classification of packaging contributions according to their recyclability and ecodesign. It has been heard several times here by the rapporteur for the Opposition that we are supposedly abolishing ecodesign. Here we have specific incentives and counter-incentives, incentives for ecodesign and counterincentives for those who do not include the ecodesign in the production of their products. Article 79, measures for the plastic bag. She is the only one of all the provisions I have mentioned that had come to the government of SYRIZA. Nothing else he had done. Of course we are expanding it even further. Article 80, measures for plastic bottles with PVC label. We add a special fee for bottles labelled by PVC and so they can't be recycled. They're having a hard time recycling. We're bringing it. You didn't. Where's your government's recommendation? We also have former ministers here who had a similar responsibility. Why didn't we legislate on that two years ago? It hasn't been ten years since you ruled. We come and legislate. Will you vote for them? Will you even agree to any articles? I do not have the right to agree on everything. With regard to the so-called promotion of combustion, I am reading paragraph 4 of Article 23. It says specific things and another colleague from another opposition party mentioned that there is no provision that prohibits combustion. I read: 'It is forbidden to incinerate waste collected separately for preparation and reuse'. Article 23(4) expressly states. How much clearer can that be? Are we against energy utilization? Are we against combustion? Let me point out that in Greece we use energy only 1-1.5% of the waste and, of course, the fodder waste is also there, unless you finally prefer the waste from livestock units to go to rams and fields and not go to biogas, energy recovery, etc. I would remind you once again that today recycling of municipal waste is only 20%, when the average European is over 50% and the target for 2020 was 50%. That should have been ideally received by you and of course we received 19%. In other words, it is 60% below Greece's targets. That's what we received. To be perfectly fair, you are not only responsible for this, but you have done nothing for four and a half years. So what do we say? To do what is done throughout the developed world, of course, taking into account the special features that Greece has. What does it mean? Instead of burying the residue, we prefer the final residue to be used as a priority. After prevention, after reuse, after recycling we then have recovery. Yes, we prefer it to be recovered energy, to be exploited for example in the cement industry, rather than to be taken into burial areas. What do you prefer? Would you rather we bury it? Say it clearly. If it's not reduced if it's not recycled, if it's not reused, then bury it? In Europe 30% is being exploited. The 100% used by the cement industries, to be precise, comes from the use of solid urban waste. Why shouldn't we do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u175	We did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u176	Well done, you did it and you're proud of it, so you agree with that. So I can't understand why you've been on fire so many times in the committee for so long. Because you know and have excellent scientific training, I ask you: What is best in the cement industries to burn imported petcoke, very low-quality fossil fuel and very polluting? Or eventually using the residue energy after the previous four stages of the waste hierarchy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u177	But you don't do that. Make combustion plants.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u178	You said the burial fee reinforces combustion rather than recycling. Again. You're left with the combustion. Whatever you were saying, you put the burning from next door. The burial fee, in other words, what the municipality will pay for, for what they are driven into landfill sites, and you believe that it benefits and helps to burn. We tell you that before we get there, the municipality and all together, it is not only a municipality, we must ensure through awareness-raising, through culture change, that we have done all the previous stages of the waste hierarchy and management and, of course, that it remains to be driven, diverted and gone for energy use instead of being buried and the burial end. We were also criticised - and I want you to say this clearly here - because we did not implement the environmental contribution, the burial fee, in other words, for the years 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u179	It's not the same. It's a contribution from a circular economy. The burial fee has been abolished since 2018. Circular economy contribution you do not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u180	Minister, please go on. Mr. Comrade, please. Let the Minister continue. It's not possible to have a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u181	I repeat. You have applied it. Secondly, in 2020 with the situation with the coronary, with the economic stiffness and difficulties of the municipalities so far, how many have they paid to the EEAN? And what are the penalties you have put in to pay? We come and say so clearly. We exempt municipalities from the obligation to pay this fee for 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u182	Minister, if you'll excuse me for just a second. I'm sorry to interrupt. Please, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have a debate with the Minister. Let it end. The procedure cannot continue like this. You'll be on your way to Stepma, Mr. Comrade. You'll go up and say what you want. Please. It is not a process that is taking place here today. It's a disgrace. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u183	So we say it clearly. For reasons of exceptional circumstances, as we all know what has happened with the pandemic and with the health crisis and the result that has it in general in economic and social activity, we come and say that we are setting up EUR 20 from EUR 1-1-2022 and that the municipalities will not be charged for 2020 and 2021. Since you have another view, I would ask you to come here to table an amendment and propose that the municipalities pay. Why don't you make it clear? Why are you having trouble? We're clear about what we're saying. Revenues from the burial fee have decided to manage them for two reasons. Because first of all, the relevance of EEAN, the Greek Recycling Agency to waste management is obvious. The other is because we believe that the EEW should be strengthened in order to carry out its necessary regulatory and supervisory role. The money you say will be given according to the beam. After you have read the bill you will have found that specifically the way in which the money is used is mentioned. We don't leave it in general and vague. We say in paragraph 3 of Article 38 that they are intended to finance municipal solid waste management bodies, FOSDA, with a view to strengthening measures to prevent separate collection and recycling of municipal waste to achieve the separate collection targets. Secondly, to cover part of the operating costs of the recycling infrastructure without prejudice to the obligations of their alternative collective management systems. Thirdly, to finance research and technology projects and to develop the application of new technologies for recycling and waste management in general. Do you disagree with that? Do you not want the money that will come from this end to be used there? You come and say that we do not give the economic tools to the municipalities so that they can help get equipment and be able to help increase recycling. We come here and say that the money that comes from the burial end will be used precisely to buy and invest in such facilities and tools and you do not come to agree. So what do you want? You also said that the performance of the municipalities in recycling is not controlled. And I answer. For the first time in Article 31(3), it is laid down that CIDs will calculate the quantity of waste collected separately per municipality because they have taken from several municipalities together. And so far you haven't done anything to know which municipality it is that really recycles and who doesn't. They all went to the same tank. They went to the same recipient without a different assessment of the rate of recycling of each municipality. We come and do it. You spoke of a secretly alleged commitment by the government to the existence, establishment, establishment of a waste regulator. And we tell you clearly. It's not a secret. It's obvious. We have incorporated it into the Recovery Fund, the European Resilience and Recovery Fund. It's a reform. Because we are ambitious to have this regulatory role so that the market, the waste management sector, really works better. We want to be supervised by a regulatory authority that will be EEAN. This role is to be performed by the Greek Recycling Agency, which is supervised by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and which is a body of the general government. Why does SYRIZA disagree with this? You don't want to? Do you want the Minister to regulate this? Do you not want there to be an independent public authority which regulates the way in which the investments are made? The way in which the capital costs of investments are recovered in the way we ultimately achieve or fail to succeed? Are national targets satisfied or satisfied with waste management? You suggested that we grant control to private individuals. It's true, Mr. Comrade. We foresee this possibility as such a provision has been maintained in your own law, the 4496/2017 that you voted on. I shall read paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 19A: ‘the EEW may be assisted by legal persons of private law or natural persons who possess the necessary formal and substantive qualifications and who will conclude a relevant contract with the EEW’. It is your provision that we have maintained so that the EEW can be strengthened with qualified staff so that it can do what it needs. You say that we are setting high targets without any tool to achieve them, without equipment. It's what I told you before. On the one hand, you say one another, you do not support the other. On the one hand, you say that we are not helping the municipalities to obtain the necessary equipment, on the other hand, you say why the money is being led to the EEAN where it will be used to buy this equipment. Finally, decide what you want. You have spoken about the evasion of resources from the alternative management systems. That's a lot of talk. I'll make it short. What did you do about it? It is estimated that by the collective alternative management systems that 40% of the contributions are not paid, that about 40% of the persons liable are not contributed to collective alternative management systems. What are you guys doing about this? Did you do anything? Why didn't you do something? Why didn't you fall? Why don't you do what we're doing and we're interconnecting the NSAF with GEM, the National Register with GEM? Why didn't you come to put on specific sentences? There was no penalty. The debtor had to be obliged to comply with a system. There was no penalty. So why would he do that? And here are the big problems. Alternative management systems did not have the revenue. There was unfair competition among the debtors, because a company was lawful and paid the levy that was many hundreds of thousands of euros, and the other company did not contribute and had no penalty. He saved these hundreds of thousands of euros, resulting in unfair competition. We're coming in and we're putting a five-fold sentence. He will pay an annual contribution five times as a penalty, the unpaid person. We give him six months by the end of the year to go to the point, to get away with this penalty. But if he doesn't then he'll pay five times what he hasn't paid since 1-1-2022. We also impose a plan of compliance with alternative management systems because we are trying to make them work properly, better. You come and say a system for why EEAN gave up, he says, permission to the operational plan and why he didn't punish him because he didn't catch the targets. And I'm asking you. You, as a SYRIZA government, have four and a half years imposed on alternative management systems that did not achieve their goal? How many sentences? None. How many new business plans did you approve four and a half years? None. How do you come here and speak and blame us for coming and putting an overall framework of penalties so that they don't escape and that the EEW knows what to do and who know all the systems. Isn't it sudden death? We say in the first year he will have this sentence, in the second year he will have a longer sentence, in the third year even longer, and in the end he loses his license. For every year, however, which fails to achieve the goals, we come and ask for a three-year operational plan that will demonstrate that it has taken care to achieve the objectives that it has integrated into its operational plan. You talked about going back into the separate collection and mentioning eight meters that, in fact, take us in front of the separate collection. I'll ask you what you guys did for the separate collection and the different currents. Until 1 January '24 municipalities are required to organize a separate collection of hazardous waste to households from daily use such as bleaching, varnishes and others. Secondly, in addition to the compulsory separate collection of biowaste by the end of 1922, the municipality is required to separate and recycle large-scale biowaste, that is to say, by the responsibility of the large producers and to cover the costs involved, while at the same time providing for the reduction of the relevant municipal fees to these producers. Thirdly, with a view to developing and consolidating environmental awareness from 1 September to 22, the compulsory separate collection of paper, glass, plastics, metals, batteries and food waste is introduced into schools. Young citizens, future citizens are our children. We introduce separate sorting into schools, and that proves what we are doing and how we legislate about society with society. We are with society and not across society, as you may have been in the years that you are ruling. Also, from 1-1-22 general government bodies organise separate collection of paper at all premises. The requirement for separate collection of waste materials, i.e. paper, glass, metal, plastics, is broadened. All new buildings must ensure an appropriate space for the collection and storage of at least four streams. This is how the bins are reduced, but this is how separate sorting is helped. The provisions on green points shall be simplified so that they can be licensed more easily and manufactured, created. The distinction between small and large is abolished. Single colour codes are imposed for waste collection boxes to facilitate citizens' identification. That's what we're doing. And I ask what is your separate collection of four streams throughout your governance? Nowhere. You also said that the ecodesign criterion that was legislated was undone. I imagine you meant it was legislated, but you never applied it. We, in addition to the necessary transposition in Article 9 of all the relevant provisions of Directive 2008/98, because these are included in European directives, come and promote ecodesign, particularly in plastic packaging with measures, concrete measures such as differentiation in contributions to alternative management systems depending on the recycling of the plastic they use. Those who use much will have a lower contribution than those who do not use. The introduction from January 1925 of the requirement for a minimum recycled content of 30% in the transport plastic bags. The introduction of an environmental charge for plastic bottles with PVC label, I told you before 1 June 1922. You also referred to Articles 2 to 7 and described the provisions as huge immaturity. I would like to inform you that these are transposing the provisions of the European directives, so as immature as the provisions of the European directives are so immature - they are supposed - and these provisions are present. Not to mention again and to repeat what you say you do not dare allegedly put it under the system and thus adopted an alternative management system, which did not achieve its objectives. And I ask you, did you four and a half years impose no penalty on systems because you were afraid of the system or systems? That's why you didn't impose because your reasoning went there. You have repeatedly commented on 'pay as far as I fly', which is a permanent recommendation from the European Commission. Do you disagree with that? You haven't told us. In relation to compulsory application in hotels you said that we have set a minimum population of twenty thousand. We have heard this, reduced to ten thousand, because we have gone and seen the municipalities, some things that have been heard and they are right to incorporate them and we have changed some of what was, in fact, serious and useful and have had a constructive contribution to having a better law. Because, finally, as was heard in the Chamber, the issue of waste management is a matter for all of us, it is not just a matter of a party or a government, it concerns all Greeks over and above colours and from parties. And I wonder why you tried to party, to politicize something that has no colors. It has colors for separate sorting boxes, but up to there. This concerns infrastructure projects in waste management. You received a national design in 2015 in full, with planned projects, and it was even in the process of compromise. There was some PPP in northern Greece, which you knew very well was in the compromise phase, and you froze everything. Do you remember what happened with Corfu? Do you remember what happened with Central Macedonia? You came and you froze them and filled them with garbage, the streets of Corfu filled up with garbage. Let's not forget that. August of the tourist season under 45 degrees Celsius. So you came with twenty - eight management factories, running works, and you did fifty. And of course you didn't have any money to build these. When you have 1.5 billion and you have three billion-dollar projects, how will you build what you do not want and the PPPs are supposed to be public-private partnership? That's what you did. I shall refer to energy and town planning to conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We have a number of energy-related provisions. For example, the necessary flexibility is given to the DEDDIE network operator to upgrade its networks in order to ensure that more renewable energy stations are connected. The great problem we have today in the region of Greece is that the electricity network is saturated with the result of farmers, citizens living in the Greek region, and they are able and willing to connect, build a small photovoltaic and support either their professional activity or have an extra revenue cannot be linked because the network is saturated. We come with this provision, and we give the TENE the opportunity, along with the flexibility, to be able to upgrade its networks more quickly and without, of course, creating a problem with the cost structure it has. We also support small producers providing the opportunity to develop a small photovoltaic plant up to 400 KW in areas that so far have not been able to do so, such as Crete. We gave 140 MW, 100 for independent producers and 40 for autoproducers for net metering. For netting to Peloponnese, in Cyclades, Evia we give 86 to the Peloponnese, 45 to the Cyclades and 40 MW to the installed power in Evia. This well-considered monitoring and surveillance mechanism is being introduced, to which the Chief of Police Response has referred, as if he understood exactly what he is doing. Of course the mechanism must now be introduced, because we have the Target Model, it worked, we have seen its problems, and that is why we are now bringing the mechanism. The Market Reform Plan and Market Monitoring Mechanism are mechanisms that work since we have some experience in what we have brought. Target Model was in itself a reform, which you have been trembling for years. And we came and tried to integrate it quickly - quickly because it was Greece's obligation. The obligation to present a guarantee letter of EUR 35,000 is also introduced, so that we can finally see who has the financial potential of those who are currently in possession of an energy space and has closed down an energy space. Do you agree or disagree? I say to you that could have voted earlier. We bring it now, will you vote or not? I'm waiting to see the result. We also bring provisions relating to the action "Support and Development Programme for SMEs" financed by the Green Fund with EUR 10 million, precisely for those lignite areas where small and medium-sized enterprises were affected by the reduction in PPC's activity. There, then, we give the opportunity, because these may have funds, public funds and other organisations, to make a netting of up to 30%, so that the remaining 70% can eventually end up in their fund, end up with them, and be able to rely on them. He will also talk about this, and Nikos Tagaras, the Deputy Minister of State, who has responsibility and works very well on the issue of spatial planning, will carry out the biggest reform in the country in terms of organisation, spatial planning. 80% of the Greek territory will be designed through local urban plans, the so-called ITDs, and more than 240 million euros will be provided from the Recovery Fund. It's something that we do for the first time in the country. It has never been a local town plan, a town plan, for decades - although it has never been completed. We come and try to achieve this in the next two - three years through resources that we have secured from the Recovery Fund. This demonstrates our will for reform and our absolute commitment to taking action that helps society and the next generations of Greeks. Because that means strong and sustainable growth, when you know what you can build, where you can invest and what you can make. Finally, I would like to refer to an important provision, among other things, ladies and gentlemen, which concerns the resolution of the property issue in areas such as Crete, such as the Dodecanese, where the ownership of the public is not presumed to be of only the nature of the area. So in this way we are giving an important solution. We are asking for you to support it, so that we can really solve a problem that has been stumbling for many decades since the establishment of the Greek state, many of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement has asked for the floor, Mr Katrinis, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u185	Madam President, I'm gonna need a minute. I won't abuse your kindness. In fact, it is impressive that the Minister for the Environment spoke forty-two minutes representing the government, Minister, and we have not heard a single minute about the government's position and position on what is unfolding these hours in Cyprus with Mr Erdogan's provocative announcements. You did not feel the need for either you or Mrs Kerameos, who came and intruded into the debate, to address yourself on this matter. The most impressive, Mr President, is that the former Prime Minister and Chief of Officerial Vice-President spoke for thirty-seven minutes, spoke about serious issues, such as pandemic, such as education, such as the bill, and he did not find a second to refer to a matter that requires national unity and homogeneity. In fact, he spoke of a deterioration in Parliament, when he himself simply considered it his obligation to post a tweet in relation to what is being done and demanded here and now national unity, national unity, militarisation and decisive action by both Greece and Cyprus towards the European Union, in order to avoid Turkey's provocativeness further. I just wanted to point it out, Madam President, because we are at the temple of democracy and cannot when these historic events happen next to us and concern Hellenism, unfortunately, both the government and the Civic Opposition to silence themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u186	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u188	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u189	Mr Colleague, you are abdicating us, but I think you are a little unfair, because simply because we are following the debate in plenary, we are totally committed. We have not read what is happening in the last few hours, as you say, because we are hours in the Chamber and we are discussing a bill. Of course we condemn the unacceptable actions of the head of government in the neighbouring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u190	Me too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: 'Institutional Law of the Court of Auditors and other related regulations'. Mrs Apajidis from Mera25 has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed bill brought by the government further trades the management of waste and delivers it to strong private individuals on favourable terms. It uses as a pretext the European directives on recycling to serve three main types of interests. The first is companies that will gain from the incineration of waste, the second is water bottlers and the third is companies that want to find a way out of building legislation. On the first point, the problem is not so much the burning itself, but especially the size of the combustion. Multiple quantities of waste will be burned in relation to the past. In fact, there will be fines to the municipalities and ultimately to the citizens if these too large quantities of waste are not provided, to be treated and RDF produced, i.e. waste fuel. This is because the dynamics of private sector access to waste management means that there will be speculation here too. Whenever this export of profits is not met. Will they pay who? Municipalities and citizens finally through fines, according to the neo-democratic slogan of 'individual responsibility', which in the end means paying many and winning the few powerful. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] The spirit of the bill is to lay down superfluous obligations for the municipalities, with severe financial penalties. If there is no response, because of poor organisation, they will be transferred to ordinary citizens. While they are deducted from the municipalities' competences and the decision-making capacity, municipal fees are charged. Likewise, we had seen similar logic in a recent amendment to a bill to ratify an agreement with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. What did the amendment do? It promoted the introduction of private individuals into water management, namely, the external water system, which is directly related to the safety of water quality. It is precisely because the Council of State does not allow the direct sale of the most basic goods such as water, the Government chooses the PPP route, namely a scheme where the public pays, pays the costs and guarantees the loans. The private person simply collects, exponentially increasing prices. Now the crime with the sellout of the TEDO is being completed in speculative funds, without know-how, in the management of networks. Degradation, therefore, of the quality of water and air, due to privatizations in the EEAS, electricity and waste management. It is the gracious future awaiting the Greek people. The people will pay with their own money out of fines and will mortgage their health and health of the coming generations. The other problem is that in the end too much plastic is being burned in our country. This disproportionately burdens the environment and the health of citizens by aggregating dioxins to their body - our rapporteur has mentioned it too - and waste transhipment stations are legalised. What does that mean, however, practically? It means that waste from now on is compressed in such a way that the possibility of recovering recyclable material is lost. So the combustion is not done after the proper sorting of what is to burn and what is not. As regards the second type of interest, the obligation on bottling companies to use reusable bottles in about 1/3 is abolished. This is a great regression and let the government talk about progress and compliance with European data. With regard to the third point I mentioned, it is characteristic that the new draft law may involve smuggling in how projects will be authorised in the NATURA areas, always defying local bodies such as forests. There is a focus on central services for licensing in a way that raises credibility issues. But Article 119 also provides that building coefficients can be changed depending on the use of an individual plot. This introduces full anarchy, which will help rosphetology, heterogeneous facilities, salivation of NATURA regions. And we cannot forget the present government's behaviour in a matter that directly concerns the city of Athens: the construction of an integrated waste management facility - HYTA in the Graphics, in the Municipality of Marathon, in the place, that is, Black Mountain, which is planned to process up to eighty thousand tonnes of waste per year. Over seventy associations and bodies in Eastern Attica, together with thousands of inhabitants in the region, have strongly opposed this major issue for years. This is a purely irrational idea of what the government is going to do. A HYTAS just a few hundred meters from the sea of Euboikos, just a few miles from the Marathon Lake, right next to an area "NATURA", next to the fertile plain of Marathon and two and a half kilometres from an earthquake-like breach. And while experts have given an opinion on the proven water permeability of rocks, the groundwater and the geomorphology of the area with a stream, which will surely lead to wet drains, gentlemen of the government, directly to the sea, we as a PART25 are skeptical towards a government that promotes similar projects, dangerous and illegal - because this results from the reports by the Environment Inspectors and the lack of a timely environmental study - in an area that is full of archaeological findings, many of which have already been destroyed, and the permeability of the soils will allow drains not only the ground and the sea, but also the waters of the Marathon lake, which is where Athens drinks water. Designs such as that of HYTAD in the Graphics make us extremely skeptical about how the government handles authorisations in NATURA areas, for which this bill leaves extremely dangerous loopholes. At the same time, the government forgets the Eye, whose pain it had used pre-electionally, of course, and takes an extension for one year of the urban plan for the affected areas. However, in anti-election, the Prime Minister had committed himself to a solution within one year. Now they have to wait three years after the election. And we are still uncertain about what will happen and how it will be done. All in all, then, as MARA25, we are against a bill completing the commercialisation of waste by including waste in intensive exploitation by individuals, whether as fuel or as cheap materials, indifferent to the ecological and health damage it brings to people. At the same time, for the weakest, you only reserve fines, on the one hand, to reward individual responsibility, which you so much invoke, which is, in fact, an alibi to the state inadequacy that exists, and on the other, to finance their anti-grass designs in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Bukokoros has the floor for 12 minutes, followed by Mr. Voloudakis. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-seven years today from the national tragedy of Cyprus and no one in this Chamber, in the territory and in Hellenism has forgotten. Hellenism united, I would like to believe, in these kinds of issues, it is also called upon to face the new challenges of Turkey's regime, the new challenges of the invasion by Tayyip Erdogan. Challenging statements, provocative decisions, actions, moves that violate the decisions and resolutions of the United Nations which violate international legality once again. And Hellenism and Europe must at last respond vigorously to the ever-increasing new - Ottomanism, the expansion of Turkey, the violation of all international legality and any concept of international law. To come to today's bill, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that the Qualified Opposition must be criticised. I have said many times from this Step that for me the severe criticism is tolerated. To have a minimum documentation, however, not to be completely unfounded, completely theoretical. The Minister has explained to you that burning, which you are talking about, is prevented by the provisions of the bill and is not speeded up. He explained that the effort of the bill is better management of waste. What's the best way? Recycling. Do you hear for the first time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, about a bill that seeks to strengthen recycling? Because I remember that in 2017, as a Member of the Anti-Population Committee, I was a rapporteur on the New Democracy side in a recycling bill brought by your government, a bill that was supposed to strengthen the four recycling currents, increase recovery, give municipalities the ambitious targets that recycling will have moved to 50% according to European cheques and on the basis of the objectives of the European Commission. So, what happened? You're doing well today for Mr. Screka's bill. Have you assessed what exactly it achieved? And I'm not talking about the former Deputy Minister of the Environment, Mr. Femello, who was the Minister who brought the bill, the prime minister, because the whole majority voted for it, we discussed it. And what are the results? The recycling rates five years later are exactly what you received. They haven't increased to the minimum. And you come today to condemn a bill whose results we have not seen yet, when the results of the relevant bill were low, poor. It is not only that the results were poor, but they have delayed the country's attempt to achieve what is necessary in the context of 'green' development, in the context of the agreements within the European Union, in the course of the progress of all the states on 'Green Deal', on the pro-environment policy, on the reduction of fossil fuels and all the issues that have now become a candy and we are all discussing them. You've been appraising yourself? Have you seen your own legislation what exactly did they achieve? The relevant legislation. When we told you then that you were transferring all the powers to the municipalities and you are not going to achieve the goals, etc., you have looked at us contemptuously. So here we have been confirmed and your overly ambitious ambitions have been disproved. Because, Minister - and I say this to you, Minister - it is not enough to make a bill in that country. Unfortunately, the state must also take care of its implementation to evaluate the provisions every day, where it needs to intervene, to improve them to increase their efficiency. And I'm telling Mr. Famell and Mr. Skreka. For many laws are passed in Parliament. The results are, and above all, when we talk about important issues such as the environment, ladies and gentlemen. I remember from that 2017 bill of SYRIZA, the only one left was the only one, if you would like, or from the few, in any case, a provision that we voted at the end on the plastic bag that took 30 years to come to our country, forty compared to the other European countries. Well, this provision strengthens the bill of the current government brought by Mr. Skrekas and Mr. Tagaras. This provision is supported by so beneficial that hundreds of millions of millions - hundreds of millions of dollars in the Greek market! - limit the use of the plastic bag. That is, we spent some hundred bags before these provisions, and now we spend a lot less, 1/10 because of the end. But there's still a long way to cover. That is why this provision is being strengthened. "I pay as much as I fly" why does it bother you, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA? Weren't you the ones who flagged the "polluter pays" slogan? Is it not the slogan of what is being adopted today? "The polluter pays" and the less you fly, the less you pay. Why, since we have not achieved the targets of recycling, are we causing some kind of pollution and if, therefore, you have allowed the pillaging of recycling for five years, it is only in Greece that it is a question of percentage recycling? It's also a percentage issue. It's also a question of plundering, but the blue buckets in this country. And measures we didn't see, penalties we didn't see. We didn't see a result. We let recycling be looted, and then we say recycling is not successful. When recycling is not economically viable, how exactly will it work, can one explain? It is not all these issues that can be slightly dealt with in the heart. And I think they are issues not the occasion for political controversy, they are issues for cooperation in the field of ideas to improve them. Think, we bury 80% of waste and say very easily - because it sells combustion, a subject that I know very well for local reasons - for burning, but you do not tell us what to do with burial. Because when you say no there, you have to say what happens to the residue. Recycling we'll do. But I explained earlier that you said we'd be at 50% and we're at 19%. They surpass and produce more and more garbage, which is not waste for throwing but waste for recovery. It's a wealthy source, too. The more you use it, the less minerals you spend. These simple principles and simple truths had to be the vehicle of political cooperation. Because the environment is neither SYRIZA nor New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, nor Merra 25 nor a Movement of Change. The environment is a loan from the next generations and they do not need populism or excesses. There are solutions and best practices. Nor can we confuse the incinerators of Europe, Vienna or Sweden with the cement industries. It's completely different things. We could say a lot more about PPC. I will not go into what the former Prime Minister has said. Because in the summer of 2019 we received a PPC, with one billion losses, to the limits of the collapse. You're talking about the DAD and all that. But you did not tell us what you signed with the third memorandum on electricity auctions, the well-known NOME that we lost EUR 600 million at the expense of PPC. You didn't tell us that. You signed this in the third memorandum. In what state, then, we have received PPC and in what state it is today, so that you can raise with such certainty and such vivid opposition crowns. Education issues have been analysed in detail here. It was the Minister who also spoke to several members of the opposition. The former Prime Minister said how it is done in Mykonos - to go through other issues too, I will return and close with the bill - ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, with 85% vaccinated and controls at stations and at airports to have a virus spread. A lot of scavengers go to the islands - you know it - and no control. They go in other ways. That would have escaped. And the former Prime Minister's attempt to tell us that you have to convince, you have to convince, you have to convince. The Civic Opposition helps this business persuasion to proceed with vaccination? Or does he close the eye in strange moves? In what way? "Don't take any measures, do nothing" on the other hand, "why is the virus split?" In other words, there are doubts and questions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not believe that anyone from the pandemic has won but nobody if they are not dealt with, and I believe that deeply. I shall close, Mr President, if I may. The government has been accused by both the former Prime Minister and Vice-Presidents of bringing ministerial amendments lately, but not late, and this is not tolerable in law, it is not tolerable for parliamentarians, as we first see in this Chamber. I do not, however, stand in this for the first time in this Chamber, where some governments have brought dozens of legislative acts more than ever, where a number of memoranda were voted on with five thousand pages in one and two days, where after our exit - it was assumed - that the last-minute parliamentary amendments and the ministers were still in the Memorandum. Mr President, we have never heard of this before. They've heard it for the first time here today! I accept that at some point all this must be rationalized and stopped. But I'm not staying in the impressions or trying to create impressions. An amendment is judged by the contents and not by being tabled to a bill that could be a provision, whether it is tabled in time or as a late amendment. And it is the contents of the ministerial amendments that are very important. It resolves issues relating to deadlines, solves problems that are years of concern to local communities. And I would like to sincerely thank you, Mr Skreka and Mr Tagaras, for Amendment No 933/87 and in particular for Article 4. What happened there, ladies and gentlemen? Since 2018, on the occasion of some decisions by the Council of State and following the fall of the boundaries of settlements throughout the region of Pelion, a blessed site that produces almost everything, - has significant agricultural and livestock production - no local processing plant could be licensed. And there comes the current leadership of the Ministry of the Environment - like the previous one, I have to say that it was right to accept this amendment that I had tabled - to permit medium- and low-purpose units which will only process locally produced products, local production. This very self-evident thing, that is, production, processing and economic activity, was banned by magic for an entire region such as Pelion. He was permanently banned. And we are coming today to overcome this problem. To give these people the opportunity to stay in their place. Mr President, if I may, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u194	I'll allow you. Time isn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u195	I don't think so. Let's do the dentistry together, and I'll finish it like that. Mr President, a winery cannot be licensed. Not only could it not be authorised, but it could not even permit environmental projects such as the waste tanks. The ‘Zagorin’ of the market for expansion, which is a cooperative with hundreds of producers, could not be licensed and entered into an investment project. So this provision is coming today - and I thank you once again - to give Pelion a breath. Thank you for accepting this provision after our cooperation, because we had condemned an entire region and wondered what political power and what political system it has the right not to solve such problems. Closed for forest maps, dear Mr. former Minister for the Environment, it was our commitment to change the law on forest maps. What did your map offer? The tens of thousands of farmers who objected to and manifest errors were organised in interest? Thousands of more than thousands of rural families who felt they were losing both the character and in many cases the ownership of their victims are organised interests? We are with the organised interests and you are with the citizens, while we solve the problem of hundreds of thousands of farmers? That's why we were voted on, we made a commitment to bring in a new law on forest maps, and we brought him in. We're improving him with these provisions. And as the political leadership has said, the Prime Minister himself, but also Mr Skrekas, Mr Tagaras, Mr Amyras, will also be given other provisions to fully implement the very positive law of Hatzidakis. It's a matter of perception. On the other hand, you see them, on the other hand, we see them. We do not want to remove the property of our peasants, you want to collect a swamp of millions of forest maps. That's our difference. Otherwise, you are with the people and we are with the organized interests! I think the opposite is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u196	Mr Voloudakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is July 20, it is forty-seven years from the Turkish invasion of Cyprus and Turkey is becoming more provocative than ever before. As Turkey becomes more provocative, the more we need to make it clear that we will never be able to accept it. I stress Turkey and not Erdogan, as usual, because we need to realise that what we see from the neighbour is not specific and exaggerated of a peculiar, extreme man, but have deep roots in the Turkish state and in the political system in society. I come to the bill, as far as the provisions relating to recycling and waste management are concerned. They are very important and, unfortunately, time does not allow anyone to deal with anything. But I must point out that, unfortunately, our country is in Europe's pigeon on the issues of recycling and waste management. A 20% is the average recycling of our country's waste, as the Prime Minister pointed out with the average of Europe being at 50%. Unfortunately, the four-and-a-half years of SYRIZA governance that is now abducting the government for its course, the improvement in the rate of recycling was 6% and less. I think before one moves the finger, one must look at his own things. They are setting targets with this bill and the stakeholders are given the opportunity to make use of them. In this respect, and in that sense, the bill is in the right direction. On the issues, in the waste management part, I would just like to draw attention to Article 55 relating to VET. As it is known in Crete we have two FLOSAs right now. We've got the TEDERIA in Chania, so we want it to stay. The bill, however, speaks in Article 55 as if it were a vegetarian in every region. It refers to the relevant regional PVCs in these words. The necessary legislative improvements must be made, so that Crete may also fit in the bill, so that the TENERIA does not come to the difficult position that it cannot submit its own management plan. I am sure of the discussions we have had with both the Minister and the general rapporteur that this issue will be resolved. I now come to the urban issues, and I shall refer in particular to an amendment, which is very important, I believe, the one which clarifies certain ambiguities of the provisions concerning off-project construction, with the exception of a non-project construction, the one for which we have set a deadline by legislating last December for a two-year period, after which, from December 1922, the project will now be banned from being constructed by way of a derogation. I objected when this bill had come to a vote, not because I want the situation to continue, as we know it today, because the fact that non-project construction has serious environmental consequences, but for some other reason. Because when it comes to citizens' property, the state when it legislates must give sufficient time to adapt. The two years, I said, and then, that is not sufficient time. I had asked for five years, it had not been accepted. But today, Minister, eight months after the two-year term comes in, the legislator comes in and states how exactly the citizen can exercise his rights. This means that from the two years, "we've been eating" for the eight months, in a year, in which pandemic makes things harder. When we legislated in December it was not known that we would have the fourth wave. For all these reasons, I believe, Minister, and I ask you to do so, that it is necessary to extend it to the December 2022 deadline for the de-build-out of at least one year. I come soon to energy issues that deal with the bill. Where we are discussing energy today, it is natural that there is concern about increasing, dramatically increasing, the cost of electricity. It is true that we also have the consequences of an international treaty for increasing the cost of carbon dioxide emissions, for increasing gas prices. However, the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, that in our home country electricity is charged and other things are not only those costs. Electricity in our country is dominated by an oligopoly, which - as is the case with the oligopoly - adds costs. In Article 135 of the draft law, you introduce a mechanism within RAE to deal with market manipulation effects, etc. Of course this is generally in the right direction, in the sense that I said before. But I have two objections. Firstly, the manipulation of markets in the form of recognised practices, etc., is all over the world and throughout Europe, in any case, the subject of the Competition Committee, not its regulator on a case-by-case basis. In Greece we have some specific and exceptions already. The role of healthy competition is limited. For example, in telecommunications, ERT enters our fields, now we have RAE entering our fields. Since what I am saying so far, and which I will briefly refer to, is the manipulation of the market, I believe that competition law should be applied with a body that will apply it to control the competition committee on the market. I would also like to point out in the same article that a point which I believe is wrong. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. It is said that manipulation will be controlled in various ways, in particular, with regard to selling below costs. In Greece, however, that is not the problem. That would be a problem if we had a big player on the market trying to get the share of others. In the past, let's say, the PPC treaty. Today is something else. We have a few players, who are supposed to have harmonized practices, not to get one share from the other, rather the opposite happens. It seems lazy to keep each other's share, why? To achieve higher prices. This has been mentioned - I mean the highest prices on the wholesale market - and in the European Commission's reports on the Greek economy, and we also see this happening in the operation of the energy stock exchange now. We have seen the crisis in the balancing market, where after the arrangements of the RAE we have come to have a balancing cost in Greece of EUR 10 now when the average of Europe is moving to EUR 2. There are many reasons why this is happening. There are provisions in the market operating codes that allow manipulation. There are provisions in our legislation that make it difficult to conclude bilateral contracts between producers, suppliers and major customers who eventually go to consumption and where these bilateral contracts exist, there is greater price stability. It is of particular importance that we say this today because we are, in fact, just before the cost increase is passed on to retail. This must therefore be addressed, Minister. Sadly, time does not allow me to say more. I will just say very briefly, Minister, about the photovoltaics in the non-interconnected islands. We have discussed this many times, and I mentioned it in committee too. You told us in committee that there would be an amendment correcting the injustice of the past few years because small producers of the uninterrupted islands and of Crete are generally compensated at a much lower price than they should on the basis of the objective data that the law itself lays down. Why? Because there was a mistake from RAE in 2014. There was a manifestly miscalculated calculation. This, Minister, must be corrected immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution, the Parliamentary Representative, followed by Ms. Perkas by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Screkas just left. Mr. Undersecretary, let me ask you a question. I wanted to say other things, but by listening to the Minister's speech, what kind of mania is she with the lignite that has caught you to shut them down so soon? What kind of premiere is that? In fact, you should explain. And you're celebrating it. So the German that has ten times, if you like, produces it in 2035. The China that has a factory in the former Yugoslavia, Serbia, is kind of stupid. The Turks, too, are stupid. Only Greece is responsible for contaminating the environment and arable - do we close the lignites, Mr Tagaras, and leave on the road twenty thousand people, twenty thousand jobs? Now? "Men I want, now I want him"? In time? Germany, I say again, Poland 2035 after that. Why us? Did Greece - have we said this many times - the small dot on the world map, Greece is responsible for environmental pollution for all this? Really. Unless we have the wrong briefing. That's not fair. I hope you'll answer us sometime. Let's go down. From 10:00 in the morning, it's 5:00 in the morning. If I exclude my colleague a little while ago, who often runs your own line of the New Democracy party - many times Mr Voloudakis is running, I say it as the things of her party - only Kyriakos Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, with how many people who spoke here today, until my turn, was mentioned on July 20, 1974 - no one else, Kich! - when Attilas killed Cyprus. And the message "I don't forget" is more timely than ever. Mr President, I will end up somewhere. It is more timely than ever, because today we are talking about Attilas 3 and here there is radio silence. Nobody's talking. Erdogan today we are talking here in the Greek Parliament has announced the creation of Cypriot Turkish democracy. What do we do? What do we do? A deafening silence! Nothing! Silent scissors! What is our reaction to the fiesta, this unthinkable figure of Erdogan in occupied Cyprus? What's our reaction? Nothing, kich! How do you feel and feel there on your favorite channel - with names and addresses - on SKAI, where Ajun cuts and sews and went to direct Erdogan's parade down? How do you feel? Why didn't we even respond to the communication level, say something as Greece, as a nation, as Greece - Cyprus, something, even on an operational level - if you want - to respond? They didn't send a fate of aircraft to Pafos airport? Why don't we send out corresponding messages, even communications? Where is the Greek-Cyprus single defence doctrine at last? Where is the EEZ of Greece - Cyprus? Will you answer these questions, the big, the important, the nationals, or will you be chasing the syringe to pinch the Greeks? Your whole concern is to give them the vaccine. Are you going to answer that? Erdogan's having a party, he's partying, and we're in silence. If you can't, sit down and watch Survivor and Ajun, because this reality and people are talking out today. But that's not what you're interested in. And if you can't - and we've told you many times on all the tones - let us at least leave the Greek Solution, the only patriotic party to deal with these issues - and these, not just those. Let us go. Let us unite the Greeks who have spent a year and a half nest every day within them a little, a little, a little, in their souls the division. That's what you've been doing for a year and a half. For a year and a half you've been nicking the division. You've gone crazy in society. You separate society every day: vaccinated - invasive, sprayed - impregnable, jambaji, responsible - irresponsible, party. You forget about something, it's and we're all Greek. You forget that. You don't get together and you split up all the time. You are behavioural, unfortunately, as a liar to your bosses - I do not know who they are, indeed - who in countries may not have the courage to impose mandatory vaccination, but they put it on you here as a rabbit. And leave what the Greek Solution says, leave what Kyriakos Velopoulos says. Leave what I'm saying right now up here. Leave all this. Do you have any idea out there what's there? Have you taken a look in society? Have you seen your creation? You have created a society - monster reality! You're threatening people. Your ministers are slugging the systemics every day and threatening the world from their windows that they will fire them, "you will be fired"! If you're in the private sector, there's a lot of reason. If you're in the public sector - here you see - you'll get disciplinary! That's nice! Do you envision this Greece? We are therefore envisioning a united Greece, Greeks united, a fist to problems, so that they can overcome them. Today you have removed fifty-four well-trained and well-trained EMAS executives, who are well-trained and well-trained in Coreper. You removed them because they refused to be vaccinated. Are you saying this to the world? Is this the society you're building out there? You're polishing young people with 150. You're threatening people to fire them. You're kicking people out of EMAS. Punish those who do not want, cannot or have not yet decided whether to be vaccinated or not. Why don't you give bonuses to those who are being vaccinated. Oh, no! Punish those who are not vaccinated. You don't let them go, you don't let them out, you don't let them go to the stores. Nothing! As for Members, you have reached the point, with various rabbits in here, and you must not tell us that Members will not enter Parliament to speak. That's how far you've reached that! And the worst. Is there an ERR? Is there an ERR? Title today, here's a title for the Minutes, from the 'CORDER COUNTRY'. With names and addresses, we'll talk about everything here, tell us what kind of grant he got and what the title has here today. Mr President, it says: 'They are cycling and threatening 3.7 million uninvasive people in Greece'. Are they threatening? What are they? Lepros? Are they running around and threatening? Is there anyone here to intervene? So, those who haven't been vaccinated what is it? Sappies? What is it, guys? Zombie? What are these 3.7 million people running around and threatening the rest of society and not intervening? These are your kids. That's what you gave birth to in your actions! And I did not have time to do so, I asked the President-in-Office for the floor earlier - Mrs Kerameos was here - because you are talking to them and to whom many or few have entered the universities. Of those who have entered, Mrs. Keramos, you have the huge political courage to propaganda the end in education for uninvasive students and you have even greater political courage, to speak sideways about vaccine forcedness even to younger children. Your attitude is immoral! Where's the free education? Answer us. Here you will be in the next few days, with the education we'll see you all, here you will be. Where are equal opportunities in learning for all the children you're making? Where are your actions for the safe operation of schools in September? It's been a year and a half, what have you done? Did you find any rooms, find any space, shaped spaces? Or will it be twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight kids in every room? What did you do to find new rooms? Tell us. It's incomprehensible to put in jewellery - incomprehensible! - to say they'll only accept vaccinated students and only those who perform molecular tests. Listen, the student! Do you know what a student will say? Luckily, my kid got his degree a month ago, it's over. You know what it is to pay every month rent? What is it to send her pocket money? What is it that she works every day she serves wherever she can get her out, pay her communists. Do you know what the world is pulling out there, which you're going to oblige the student to give 40 euro molecular tests to go and attend his lesson? Who are you? What are you? Where are you doing this? Who are you addressing? Can't you see what you've done out there? You've ruined society. You've ruined society! Don't go to the crayon called Mykonos. You got it back. Three days, your cheeks last. You got it back! You've been humiliated internationally. The world rose up in Mykonos, after opening champagne in Turkey and the other countries that did not go to Mykonos. And suddenly lift lockdown in Mykonos! So, what happened in the two days? I don't understand! Did the cases fall? We had a tsunami of cancellations and the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, lived in his own parallel world, lived. "We haven't seen any cancellations, it's all right!" I really dare to say that you're dangerous with all that you're doing and all that you're saying. And I shall end by saying this now, Mr President, and we are warning you a month ago, because we see that the project is going back to work. Don't you dare re-block the believers in the 15th century because we see the work. It is not by chance that the Prime Minister's appearances with metropolitans, who offline the Sacred Congregation, described sinners as sinners! What else are we gonna hear? The other dangerous and sinners told them here. You sick people! Stop terrorizing the believers at last. Stop demonizing Orthodoxy. Abandon the bait! That is why the Greek Solution is the only party - because I see a boat here, Mr. President, left Mr. Tsipras one - in two boats after his speech, "and with the policeman and the policeman" - who have a clear position. We have no problem with the vaccination. The world is free to choose to be vaccinated. We are vertically opposed to any form of compulsion. It's over and over! The clearest attitude than the clearest and most free party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u200	Mrs Perka has the floor now with SYRIZA, followed by Mr Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to talk about at least four bills or four themes, because that is what the Minister has achieved. It is nothing original, but what happened specifically with the amendments and the fair indignation of all sides of the opposition was to come three bills in one, the two without consultation, and the amendments which are another bill. Of course you do not like dialogue, as you certainly do not want a specific debate to take place within the House, but this cannot continue. We are talking about last minute amendments. But, above all, I would like to respond a little bit to the position of the Minister. He smuggled for once because, he says, this government is the most environmentally friendly, committed to liberation. I'm starting with another characterization for this government at the earliest. So what did he do? The Prime Minister has committed himself to liberation and not carbonisation. He insists not to talk about carbonisation and keeps putting natural gas projects into the Recovery Fund even though they are not financed. But his ministers found out later. The plan for degreasing has not yet been implemented. Master plan - Exhibition of ideas, territorial plans even more vague, restorations zero, spatial planning zero. We're talking about spatial planning. Where is the programming contract between RIS and PPC? How will these investments even be carried out, which were finally taken back to the territorial plans? The regions are falling apart, and here they are convincing that the government is also pro-environmental, and we are going to sculpture. Three and a half thousand unemployed, zero in planning, zero in rehabilitation, but zero, very low, and funding. Our country is ninth, despite all rapid and forward defoliation. As for Bulgaria and Romania, which are not even committed to liberating 1.2 billion each, 2 billion each, 755 million of us from the Fair Transfer Fund. The time of defoliation has not been measured, the connection between the country's GDP and lignite has not been measured. Could not close temporary folder: %s And, of course, it is outside the regulation of a fair transition both outside and outside the regulation of the Development Fund and the European Central Bank. They put in gas works, because they want to serve. The government is not environmentally friendly, something that has also been proved by law. And when you dismantle the management bodies of protected areas, you're not environmentally friendly, but also when you completely destroy and degrade spatial planning again, you're not environmentally friendly. Environmentally friendly, too, you're not even when you weaken the Ministry. However, when you are not intervening in the forests without the approval of the forest service, you are not in favour of the environment, nor when you bring a bill earlier on land planning - town planning, where there are essentially town planning, you are abolishing a mature study and financing plan of the SYRIZA government, you leave it two years on ice and then you do something renames and start serving interests. What university and what school says these are spatial planning? And the amendment comes today and changes it again, point. They change, it says, the conditions of construction in the off-project and the land of high productivity in a kilometre will be declassified. That's what he says! What passes in change with an amendment to a bill. And you know what else he's saying? Because sometimes they tell you 'we want to help'. I remember shouting from this Step and saying that you are going to the off-project construction without having solved the road issue, for which the S.H.E. it has given its opinion. And now the amendment comes back out of S.H.E.'s case-law. the roads will be characterised by the secretary, the coordinator of the Decentralised Administration. What are you doing? What exactly are you doing? Of course, there are a lot more. But I'm returning to liberation. What exactly do you do for western Macedonia two years now, apart from having made an unjust commitment, as we said, without any plan or other? Nothing, nothing! Nothing's happened! Where are these investments going to be? Not to say who it must be! In what territory, in what restoration, with what land uses, are they involved? Territorial should also be called the investor. That's what the Fair Transition Fund says. We have nothing here! Mr Skakakis said to me: 'We will see the interest of investors and, as appropriate, the funding will be made'. There is no state planning, that is, there is no state planning. This is neither democratic nor pro-environmental nor, of course, does nothing good for the country. So without a special spatial planning, review without specific environmental studies, overheating. In RAE's geo-informatics map, we have all been terrified, as have local societies from the multitude. Nowhere word for innovation, while we close the district heating - the whole of Europe laughs! - in Florina and Megalopolis, which is "technology - agnostic system" and could function with RES and others. So, district heating's closing. Here you should be informed that teletherings in Europe are doing. 80% of energy investment relates to telecommunications. And you do that to go natural gas, which is not funded, but we will find resources. They're making fun of the residents of the same areas. In any case, I must also say about PPC. The Minister told us we had increases. That doesn't want much proof. Households and businesses have understood that. In September we had a 20% increase in electricity prices and price collapse in general, but with speculation in which PPC participated. He bought 28 euros of megaton and sold 110. It has completely lost its social character. And here comes the Target Model and says we're fixing it now. Really? That's predator too! First of all, does the destruction occur, is high electricity prices permanent and then you come to fix it with a mechanism? And for the NOMEs, the government of Samaras had committed itself, which also dismantled the free rights of pollutants. These have been written in history and they are not forgotten. As we have said, it is now complete. I'm going to answer a lot of points, because I don't have much time for all these bills. Because there was the question: 'What bothers you 'I pay it while I fly', I would like to say nothing. It's very good. But it cannot be handled manually, it also wants this planning. Restore the end of burial by supporting combustion, we say, in the place of contributing to actions of a circular economy and remove powers from the municipalities, which are not involved in the design, but have the cost. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a few more minutes. You will tell me here that you are voting and you are voting again on what you yourself have voted on. I just want to remind you that for disposable plastics it would normally have to be issued these days for the guarantee system. In any case, the most tragic one - and I want to talk a little more about it - is the greatest reform, as the Minister said. So the biggest reform that has taken place is in the field of spatial planning. That's true! It's about to be abolished. We said he's hitting the bottom with the land planning bill. It wasn't the bottom! It will be abolished, I imagine, and as a scientific object. It has to come out of the universities, of course. Do it! The amendments are coming! There are signs of what had been institutionalized. As far as Mr Tagaras is concerned, and because he is here I would like him to answer it to me, there is a report saying he is making building permits for the Eye. Earlier, too, because spatial design for the Eye takes another two years. And, unfortunately, there's also a nice deal, which hurts me - and I'll say it again - with the TEE as an intermediary. Obviously, the second phase studies for 6 million, of course. It also changes the profile of the institution. And of course, all special urban and regional plans are also being extended. So without tools anyone can do anything anywhere. There's no timelines at all. So these may never end. This is, indeed, a terrible reform. For the electronic identity of the building, nothing happened. I guess that didn't work out, too, maybe we'll get rid of it. However, the most dangerous provision may be that it states that special town planning plans prevail in any case, even from the current GMO provisions. That's what we call "getholes in planning". It's dangerous what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u202	Mrs. Perka, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u203	And let me say one more thing. IDUs are under-represented. There's HSBO, twenty, they don't even have a civil engineer and they're suboptimal. It's simple, you don't care! And there are urgent modifications to the GMO. I want to let you know that GOK is changing every thirty years. GGO in '55, GGO in '85, GGG in 2012! What's the urgent need to change GOK? The photographic arrangements for specific interests. It's nothing else. And I'm ending up with the DEDEN. It's a crime you're doing. You sell out the most valuable asset and development asset, a network of monopolistics with little guaranteed revenue, with profits that can be increased, because it can develop technologies such as 5G, smart networks and others. It does not oblige you to do so. It is a sign of your insistence on privatization, when, throughout Europe, there is just the reverse trend, and for speculative funds everywhere, just as it is in defoliation. Outside the local society, within two, three major investors to share money and the benefits of this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, followed by Mr. Stamenitis from New Democracy. We need to start keeping time, because in the end we're going far away. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. I promise I will keep time so that my colleagues will not be troubled by late night. Let's start with the sad anniversary. I listened with caution and there is no doubt that we all in the Greek Parliament agree that it was a national disaster of Attilas and that we must do everything we can to prevent such disasters being repeated. However, I did not hear any of the previous speakers - nor the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative - referring to a small but important detail. When Attila took place we had a diversion in our country, we had lost democracy, ruled Erdogan type people, according to the commonly called "fascists of the horn". Excuse me for the expression. So when we talk about history we should all see how the same things will never happen again. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, how will we ensure that national disasters and disasters do not happen again? We will ensure that, for example, when we finally decide to show our courage, honesty and dignity at government level, whoever governs, and say by fingering: This man - Mr Erdogan - and this country has no democracy, is not a safe destination. Just one, a year and a half ago, our government decided that it is a safe destination for refugees and immigrants, the state of Mr Erdogan, which, as I said before, is not a safe place for the inhabitants themselves, the indigenous Turks. It is not a safe destination for journalists because they are tortured, tormented, toenails, intestines, imprisoned, executed, thrown from balconies, what they did in the Greek dictatorship, that is, our own torturers, then illegal rulers who opened the way to "Attila". The cause, the gap that Turkey found to enter and take half of Cyprus was the anomaly in the country. We have an anomaly right now in the country, we have a great anomaly in the European Union, which says that everything is good in Turkey, in order to hide the problem of immigration and refugee under the carpet and we have a second anomaly that Greece accepts it. These lead - I hope they do not lead - to future disasters, ladies and gentlemen. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will not speak about the bill, I am a parliamentary representative. Mr Arsenis told you so well. In other words, the funny thing is that there will be no recycling with this bill that is about recycling. He also told you that the joke is that you hide as always behind your finger. In other words, you are not telling the citizens what is released into the air from burning garbage like our Austrian fellow men do. They say: Look, we put them in the scales. It's very bad for your health, some of you, our Austrians, will get cancer. But in the scales, it's like it's better for the nation, for the country to do that. The Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council do not have this dignity at last to say things by their name. Only then will the Greek people trust you, only then can you rely on the fact that they will support you. Mr President, we have reached a dead end. We have come to no doubt, ladies and gentlemen. Is there a solution? Safely there is. What's that solution? It's a very simple, we've been saying it for almost two years, eighteen months: vaccines, vaccines, vaccines, which you're trying to do, lame - you've been doing it, and massive tests that you don't do. What are you doing, instead of making vaccines, as you should, in other words, the number that you need to carry out mass tests? You, on the contrary, choose discord, discord, discord, digital freckles. It's not a solution, it won't work. I would also like to make it clear that Merra 25 is asking - we have also adopted an amendment to this effect, which we will shortly be tabling - legislation at last banning the setting up of electronic file software for the citizens, such as NSO or 'Gegass', state-owned personal data monitoring applications, etc. They must be legally banned because experience from all over the world says that otherwise there will be a record of citizens. What is due, ladies and gentlemen, is the total failure in our view of the management of the pandemic and the incalculable economic and human cost? Where else? In the stubborn, the most stubborn refusal of all times by the Prime Minister, who is at the same time - is a global originality in the world - and an anonymous company apart from Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to finally adopt and build a public network of masses and free tests along with the vaccination network. We have been proposing it since March 2020. What did you do instead? Nothing. You opened tourism in July 2020 - don't tell you in June 2020 - without massive tests. And where did you hide? Behind a fig sheet, Mr President, a fig sheet of fig tree was hidden, which is the famous algorithm, which a god knows where this algorithm came from, saying that with a sample test on seventy tourists entering Greece, our country can be shielded. This algorithm you need to know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that it is now called, between funny and crying, the "algorithm of death". Apparently, he was responsible for the nearly thirteen thousand extra dead of the three hundred, four hundred who we had until then. When you could no longer deny the necessity of tests, as we all know, it has become a fanatical one, have everyone adopted it, all over the world, when you realize that you are being exposed to the minimum tests you've done, what have you done then? This really touches the limits of the atheophobic. Instead of doing molecular or even rapid test, you adopted the non-tests. What are the non-tests? As we all know are self-tests. With this move, you have essentially formalised the total absence - institutionalised now, with the state's bogeyman - reliable tests and of course you have thrown the test ball away, as always in individual responsibility, to the defenceless citizens. The result, as I said, was thirteen thousand more dead, last autumn's second wave and, of course, the loss we pay this year's good image as a safe destination for tourism and so on. I would also like to say to you this: I heard the government's information, the government's official yesterday saying that we have reached 44%. I have the bad habit of having a good memory. So I heard ten days ago, in the last of the hundreds of complaints that the Prime Minister tells us every week, saying: Who would have waited a few months ago that by the end of the summer we would have reached 70% of the citizens to be vaccinated? I will answer him ten days later: You, Mr. Mitsotakis, because you came here a month and a half ago and promised us that 70% of the Greek people will be vaccinated in mid-July. You are unreliable, you have divorced with political insight. When the vaccination was started extremely late, you know what he did? He turned into vaccination centres that you didn't do - not all of you, your Prime Minister and his ministers - our hospitals. In other words, our hospitals became vaccination centers. They practically decommissioned. Ask the people who are waiting to operate for sixteen months now. And then, of course, you turned the world back against the citizens. But what citizens? Young people this time. Who are these young people? The ones you've been hit for two consecutive years with Mr. Chrysochide holding the beating bat, you've been demonizing them, you've been holding them, and now you're making them get a health certificate, the famous "green pass". What's the result? The result is a panic anonymous company, “Kyriakos Mitsotakis”, undermining the vaccination program of the company itself, through spasmodic and authoritarian movements that enhance, rather than beating the resistance of those who do not want to be vaccinated. I'll tell you in a few words to understand it. It is a virtuous people who have been drinking blood, I would say all of you together, for twelve years together. After twelve years of sucking all of his blood comes the coronary and you do all that you do, all the failures and repetitives. But I shall dwell on one thing, Mr President, which is very important. What is the surrounding atmosphere, the economic atmosphere in the country? What are you doing to the people you're asking to trust you to get vaccinated? Do you know what you're doing? Take the houses with the "HRAKLE" from the "red" loans. How is that possible? Why you give their homes to 4% of their price to the predators, which you guarantee with EUR 13 billion. the Greek people, and if business doesn't go well, you'll pay them back. So you get them homes, homes, gifts where one can imagine, anyone, as long as he is predator and fewer. The only one excluded from the process to get it back is the owner himself. You know how? With the bankruptcy code you voted on a moment ago. So when you take their homes, you have a Banking Code so that they can not only get them back, but that anyone else on the ground or on the whole can get them, but not the one who lost his home or his professional roof, when, apart from them, you do at the same time a 600 million in the six-year-old gift to the parasitic oligars, such as Mr Vassilis of 'AEGEAN' - but not the same, you know the names - you know what this people see? He sees you're not interested in him at all, but you're interested in making the pandemic opportunity to get more parasitic, in our opinion, your missionaries. As long as a large part of society remains invasive, the possibility of transmission, ladies and gentlemen, even from or in vaccinated is extremely important. It also remains the risk of virus mutations. Therefore, vaccination does not replace the tests, Mr President. Mykonos, what happened? In Mykonos, we had 70% vaccinated people. What does the Mykonos prove to be a superintendent? That it is not politically wise to do so. So what do I mean? You got it last year, you guys got a little bit of a classy and you got it. I heard yesterday the legal counsel of the Mykonos Focus Association saying "Here we are 90% vaccinated, has not come from here" and the journalist says "How did he come?" and responds ‘From the gates of entry’, because no checks were carried out or no health checks were carried out. You lost Mykonos, who doesn't have much to do with us, not because we don't love the Myconians, we love them and we love them, but these people have the world's "nailboard" in tourism, they will restore their damage. But it burns us a lot more for the rest that you lost together, because Mykonos is our ad on the world and after you closed it and reopened it - not to say about these old-fashioned things - you made it a mess. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President, I will need to. Mr Mitsotakis' 'green pass' is a reproach at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, for individual rights. Contrary to the anonymous negative tests proposed by Mera25, which certify that there is nothing in our body, the "green pass" of the "Metsotakis Anonymous Company" certifies what is right within us and requires private individuals to scan our personal data. Quite simply, Mr Mitsotakis' "green pass" represents a decisive step towards the establishment of the dystopia of the Oriental "Greek Brother". Being like this, it maximizes reactions against the vaccine. A major percentage will not, because of the 'green pass' alone, of the health certificate. The government commits itself to and undermines its own vaccination programme. As far as hospitals are concerned, I told you. Finally, Mr President, we note as a Meratakis, with great concern two parallel developments: first, the international digital engraving scandal through the "Pegasus" software and the NCO company and the efforts of Mitsotakis S.A.", to take advantage of the opportunity of pandemic, so that together with the "green pass" state enclosure applications for use by private, insurance companies, state insurers and others and others are introduced. For this reason, we are adopting Edward Snowden's recent proposal for a legislative ban on such software. The Merra25, as I told you, will quickly table an amendment prohibiting the supply, marketing and installation to any digital media on the ground from a public server and the last private cell phone of any software, which can be transmitted to other devices in order to accumulate messages, mail, files, geographical spots, photos and videos, camera or microphone downloads. Even if we do not, as we very much fear, vote under no circumstances on our amendment, you know that you will find us in front of you, we will sit in your neck. We are not going to leave you in the 20th millennium to file Greek citizens with any excuse and any alibi. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr Gregoriadis. Mr Dionyssis Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy. Because you talked about the vaccines, without wanting to comment on your speech, I want to tell you something, which I think is important to all of us to say, that we need to trust science. We in my family trusted science, and today our seventeen-year-old daughter was vaccinated, because we need, I think, to convince all children to be vaccinated, so that we can obtain our freedoms and get our lives back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, we yesterday. We caught you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u208	I'm glad, Mr. Giannoulis. Come on, Mr. Stamenitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. I will fully endorse what you have said about vaccination, and it is good for all of us to state clearly and urge citizens to carry out vaccines, because that is the solution. I would really like to comment on the previous speaker, but it would take me all the time, and I would be out of the question, since we are dealing with the waste and waste bill. But just say something. The fact that he commented that it was bad that hospitals were also vaccinated, apparently shows that you have not visited a hospital. In Pella, where we have three vaccination centers at the Yannitson Hospital and the Edessa Hospital, what do you think? That the hospital's operation stopped? I guess you're out of reality. Come along and visit them and meet the doctors, the nurses and what happened all this time. I would also like to comment on something else from his colleague, SYRIZA, and I will repeat it because it has a value. I'll say it while you're commenting on PPC. In 2014 it had profitability of 90 million. In 2019 it had 900 million losses. In 2014, it had a stock exchange value of 1.9 billion. In 2015 he had only 300 million. Today it has 60 million profits and about the same stock market value as in 2014. Why? Because the choices of this government have helped to save PPC. The choices of your own government have led to a step being taken before the closure of the largest public body. Let's go to the bill, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It has been said repeatedly that the greatest challenge facing the whole world is the climate crisis. It is certain that, after all, we see it happening - most of the political initiatives at international level - will be aimed at dealing with this phenomenon. Fortunately, since July 2019 Greece has appeared as one of the countries, which have perceived the need to take drastic measures, and this is what it is doing. That's the reality. We already have an integrated plan for energy and climate, we are implementing the plan for transition to the post-Ligninary era, we are making use of much of the funds that the country will receive from the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF, to implement the policies that will help us make the final turn in the green era. A central role in this effort is also the issue of waste management, since it is directly related to availability or, if you like, the depletion of natural resources. The truth is that the legislative framework in our country is empty and, unfortunately, it is not uniform. This is a reality, gentlemen of SYRIZA. The country's inability to manage effectively is clearly reflected in figures. I would like to say this quickly, and we have been talking about it in committee too. Greece presents a low-performance waste recycling sector with around 20%, while the European average is 50%, while in the area of landfill, we have the negative record, as 80% we produce ends in landfill sites. Obviously, in this indicator, the European average is 20%. Really, you left party, progress, the green economy, what are you doing about it? Because the numbers accompanying your period of government are not flattered. Therefore, the leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, knowing the data, by evaluating the policies that have so far been implemented, looking at the positive examples of other countries, incorporates European directives into Greek legislation and presents an overall reform, which is unfolding over the three-fold "prevention - strengthening recycling - reduction of landfill". The basic philosophy of the bill, on which we seek to achieve desirable results, is to tackle the problem, on the one hand, at the level of society and local government, with active involvement, on the other, on the other, at the state and state level, through the right legalisation, through the provision of basic guidelines and, obviously, with supervision. For example, I refer to the main arrangements introduced by the draft law under discussion. Firstly, the 'pay as far as I fly' regulation, which provides for lower municipal charges for citizens producing less waste. Do you disagree with that? Secondly, the increase in the burial fee per tonne, which is set at EUR 20 per tonne of municipal waste and increased annually to EUR 5 by 1 January 2027 to EUR 55. Thirdly, the provision for new categories of waste for which there will be a different management. Fourthly, the strengthening of the operating framework of alternative management systems, with substantial interventions, so that they operate better and achieve their objectives. And that's what you disagree with? Fifthly, the introduction of the obligation to reduce by 30% the food waste by 2030. Sixth, the possibility for Recyclable Material sorting Centres from 1-1-2022 not accept the recycling container content if they contain more than 40% of mixed waste. With these regulations and others - which do not allow time to be mentioned - the Ministry lays the foundations for effective management of the issue, mainly through the assumption that the residues we produce can, by appropriate practices, strengthen the context of the circular economy, which is essential to cheap energy, produce wealth, create jobs and, above all, make a substantial contribution to the creation of a better environment. However, in addition to the waste issues, the current draft law introduces very important regulations in the energy market and aid for the development of renewable sources of energy, a top regulation that conceals the Government and Minister Screka's own will for a real shift in green energy is the one under Article 128, which favours the development of infrastructure from the TEN for the installation of RES projects. The flexibility offered to the manager to upgrade the network will solve significant saturation problems presented throughout Greece. We in Pella are facing such problems, which are actually putting brakes on private initiatives by small and medium-sized investors for the implementation of projects in green energy and, at the same time, are delaying the development of the whole network of renewable energy sources in our country. The arrangements for spatial planning and town planning, which will complete the government's great reform effort in this admittedly very difficult area, are also important. Ladies and gentlemen, our country in the last two years has left its print on policies on the environment and climate change. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has set green policy very high on government priorities since the first day, many important steps have been taken in this direction. It is no coincidence that he is characterized by the international press as a green Prime Minister. It is no coincidence that our country receives credit for its green energy turn. Last week the European Vice-President of the European Commission Franz Timmermans said in an interview that Greece was moving rapidly towards the post-liner age, stressing that our country is an example to other countries, as well, of what can be achieved on this front, if there is the necessary political will. Ladies and gentlemen, today's provisions are part of the way waste is handled in the country. It is clearly an important effort to gradually change culture and address the issue as a whole. Today we are called upon to vote on a bill which is part of a large and ambitious environmental plan, which is a real shame for the opposition not to be written to it by its vote. I urge you today to vote in favour of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as time is concerned, I should like to say this. I understand that everyone wants the last guy's time, but you know, doing this, we'll be there tomorrow morning. Here you are, Mr Kegeroglu, who I know what you want the previous year!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, the government policy and the pluralism of the state are declining, unconfirmed and have two aspects: on the one hand, the absence of a comprehensive plan, the sluggishness, the lack of interest in society and, on the other, the search for 'days' and specific interests. This government choice does not exclude any policy area, nor of course that of the environment, waste and waste management, as well as energy. It is now clear that, while everyone is talking about sustainability, green energy, energy transition, they mean different things, at least in terms of targeting and vision, and certainly in terms of the beneficiaries. The alleged freedom of the market leads to the immunity and sovereignty of the great and very great interests, and much more so when government policy itself favours excessive concentration of rights and wealth in less and less hands. The bill reflects exactly this governmental perception and choice. We disagree. We've got intersectional opposing positions. Green development, energy transition, cyclical economy, in addition to the positive environmental sign, must be governed by rules and conditions of social justice, which ensure the uninterrupted participation of small and medium-sized enterprises and collective bodies in the prospect of local benefit and regional development. In addition, in order to be effective and enforceable green policies, public dialogue is needed, the consultation and co-formulation of policies with self-government and society, as well as the institutional representatives of entrepreneurship. It is not a fetish, but an unnegotiable principle and a tool of efficiency, which leads to public and social interest being safeguarded. The government seems to be talking only to a portion of BSE and some investors who want to multiply their over-profits. The previous government failed, recommending inappropriate and uncompromising policies. It is certain that you, too, will fail with the feasibility arrangements you bring. The government's choice to restore the outdated logic of setting up power plants not only from residues, but also from waste which has not undergone all possible treatment, is a setback and contrary to modern trends. Instead of developing the circular economy and opening new fields of activity, with environmental and social rules, the government perpetuates the vicious circle and the front - back with burning and burial, undermining selection with separate systems. This, however, is essentially contrary to the European directive invoked by the Minister. The European Directive considers the recovery of energy from waste to be the last solution before burial, first setting the prevention, reuse and recycling to the maximum extent. Greece is chasing its recycling targets, essentially because of a lack of political will to deal with the problems and the government today prefers to cover them up. With this perception, it is impossible to reach from 22% to 23% today at 55% in 2025. Tell us next year, 2022 how much it will be, 2023 how much it will be, 2024 how much it will be. We are telling you that only by specialisation through a national strategy and other national waste management plan, with regional management plans and realistic municipal plans, we can move forward. As regards green energy and social justice, in the context of opening up new economic fields, we are clear. You have also decided with Article 132, in areas where we have been saturation or unconnected networks, such as in Crete, we have opened up new economic activities. However, this should be governed by social justice and should not only concern the strong. It is in this sense that we need to ensure that small and medium-sized investors and, of course, large-scale energy communities are provided with unfeasible access. The bill stumbles. It needs modifications. Moreover, there is unequal treatment of Crete in relation to the mainland. The regulation prevents a socially just green transition from taking place. I explain: in the 400 KW project any legal or natural person, says the law, can apply for a single project. If a member of the legal person, now, submits, excludes the legal person or vice versa, if the legal person submits and obtains authorisation, all natural persons who are members of the legal person shall be excluded. This incompatibility could apply to personal companies or even to fewer energy communities. However, it cannot apply to very large broad-based energy communities, as we call them, which should be treated differently. The unequal treatment of the energy communities in Crete is also relevant to what exists in mainland Greece, where you are giving them eighteen MW priority. I say that a similar priority must also be given to Crete, if not eighteen, a similar percentage. Because you were speaking, Minister, for forty-one minutes, in response to the opposition made to you by SYRIZA, easy, vague and epidermal, we want you to respond to us, because you will not accept the amendment we tabled to you, which has a specific proposal, concerning the areas that open up new fields of activity in energy communities and, of course, small and medium-sized investors. It is a requirement for us, because there is a provision in your other amendment, Article 11, which concerns areas outside the project and the construction of them, which, while we had tabled seven months ago, the amendment which I shall table in the Minutes, the Minister then refused and you came after seven months, is self-evident to adopt. You made seven months to understand that it was right? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude with the amendment on the ownership of forest land. The forestry regulations concern government commitments, obviously to address the problems that have arisen and emerged since the suspension of forest maps. The Minister is indeed the one who recognised the problem and said he will take initiatives, unlike his predecessors, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, who argued that there is no problem. However, the solution you have introduced, Minister, with the amendment is fragmentary and can lead to dangerous situations. The Forest Ownership Council as a philosophy is in the right direction, but there are no necessary guarantees of transparency, the rules of crisis and operation, so that it does not turn into a corruption stove. It does not provide for a secondary crisis. Where did that sound? There is always a secondary crisis in the administration's decisions for the citizen. It is only provided for in the courts, which in any case can go. The challenger, who is the public, decides essentially unilaterally. Unfortunately, Minister, your negative attitude to the whole of our proposals does not contribute to solving problems. That is why I would like you to reply to us, at least for this amendment, which we have tabled on both issues, and not to refer after September or October to the bill on energy communities, when the pie in Crete, the Peloponnese, the Cyclades, Evia and elsewhere has now been shared. Now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u212	The pie won't be shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u213	Did you see? You didn't even need the time you asked for. We are now continuing with Mr Nicholas Andreas from New Democracy. Immediately after that, Mr Christos Giannoulis will be Mr. Karathanasopoulos, a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis from his first speech as Prime Minister of the country in the programming statements had stressed that the economic growth of the 20th century must go hand in hand with environmental protection, which urges us to consider the size of this responsibility and to realise that even if the green agenda was not at the top of the world's interest Greece should have chosen this model of development. The New Democracy had made an election commitment to a policy aimed at protecting the environment and sustainable development. So, from the start, the government has put in place a comprehensive plan to deal with chronic problems and implement a modern European waste management policy, moving on to important projects, such as the gradual closure of illegal landfills in several areas of the country and the construction and auctioning of waste treatment plants. One of these is the joy of being in the Trinity of Elias Prefecture and has already begun its operation. It also proceeded with the licensing of waste transhipment stations, the pilot implementation of 'pay while I fly, I earn as long as I separate', but also a new national waste management plan, modernised and geared to increasing recycling and reducing waste burial by 2030. It legislated the framework for a single-use Greece and laid the basis in society for the integration of recycling into our everyday lives. Then all these initiatives come the present draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which puts at the forefront the establishment of an integrated framework for the protection of the environment, namely waste management, alternative form of management, modernisation of procedures and adaptation to the requirements of the circular economy. Recycling is at the heart of waste management and is a matter of the whole society. In the five years before recycling increased by 1% to 2%. Today it is about 20%, when the European average is 50%, which does not correspond to a developed European country. For this reason, this draft law makes necessary arrangements, such as the prevention of waste production, the reduction of the negative effects of their production and management, the increase in recycling, the reduction of the overall impact of the use of resources and the improvement of their efficiency. All this aims to move to a circular economy, to a new model of sustainable development. Unfortunately, the waste hierarchy is being circumvented, with the burial still being the dominant management option, with percentages even reaching 80%. During the debate of the bill on the committee responsible, a strong reaction was seen from the officer's standpoint for this draft law. But we must remember SYRIZA's environmental performance. We have not forgotten that these policies have repeatedly led to the condemnation of Greece by the European Union court of mismanagement of waste, and of course, these concern the management and landfill sites. The Ministry of the Environment and Energy has given a huge fight to get our country rid of the obligation to pay the financial penalties imposed. Within 2020, eight HGAAs and two HGAAs ceased operation, resulting in a reduction in annual fines. It should be recalled that the country paid the EUR 80 000 annually for each of the sixty-five cases of illegal CIDs, which existed in the first half of 2019, and in the second half of that year it proved to be the closure of five CIDs. So it would be appropriate for SYRIZA to look after his criticism of this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has a great challenge ahead of it, the overthrow of the existing waste management situation and the proper management of it, with the landfill being the last option. Greece is therefore invited to reduce the percentage of municipal waste which will end up in landfill at 10%. In order to achieve this objective, as from 1 January 2022 the total urban waste allocated to landfill sites, including residues of recyclable material sorting centres and waste treatment plants, shall be borne by burial charges, with revenues assigned to the Greek Recycling Agency and intended to enhance prevention and recycling actions. Incorporation of European Directives 851 and 852, which takes place for the first time under this Regulation, contribute in that direction. We have a duty as a society to respect the resources we consume, to shape better conditions for our lives, to become prosperous and allies to this rational waste management, which is part of modern European standards and is coming to solve the problems that are afflicting our society. But, above all, we must become a society of ecological conscience and the right space to achieve this and leave our children a better environment is school. Thus, from September 1, 2022, there will be separate collection flows of paper, glass, plastics, metals, batteries and food waste in schools. This regulation is not just a legislative intervention. It is an act that can change the philosophy of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law includes other important regulations on important issues, such as the electricity market, with emphasis on renewable energy sources. It, however, contains provisions on spatial planning and urban planning, which is an important reform that stimulates sustainable development. It is important that the present draft law on the suspension of construction work in the preparation of special urban plans is available, a programme which will run alongside local urban planning projects in the next period. This is undoubtedly one of the most important development and radical upgrading projects for our country. Over 240m euros will be exploited by the Recovery Fund for National Spatial Planning. For Elias, the prefecture I represent, integration into the special town plan is a station project to detach the prefecture from the residential control area and problems with land uses. A project that strengthens our coastal front, increases tourist and investment benefits and creates new jobs. A project that places not only Elias, but also Western Greece on a path of sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of our country has an ecological sign, and it is surely a central priority for the government. The future of our country, the future that we will leave to our children is fully linked to our ability to protect and exploit our unique natural and cultural wealth. In particular, in the current circumstances, we are being called upon to step up our efforts to manage as effectively as possible the major crisis in climate change. This draft law essentially contributes towards this and sets out the conditions for development on a sound basis and with respect for the environment, because respect for the environment is not done in words, but by actions. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too. Here comes Mr. Giannoulis Christos from SYRIZA, and immediately afterwards Mr. Karathanasopoulos, as we have said. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not yet dried the ink in the Greek Parliament's minutes since the placement a few days ago of a 'girlologist', a vicious face of the political and the government's majority, who, by spinning with a diluted nerve at the headquarters of the Officerial Representation, called us all 'unwrought' with 'foams in the mouth'. Seek out who he is. It has remained a stigma in this Chamber to call the entire SYRIZA Parliamentary Group "uncooked". Today we have had the unpleasant experience of explaining'why this logic'. Because today Mrs Keramos, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing and replying to the former Prime Minister under the Environmental Law, admitted that the government, which she serves, does not invest in education, culture, youth education and training, only prepares qualified workers on which Mr Hatzidakis will be "worked". That's what he admitted. By abolishing sociology, artistic lessons, investing and paraphrasing the trunk and mission of education and academic education, it admitted. To convince us, in fact, because of the impotence of arguments in a "new member" government, a government that describes a Greek government that the Greeks do not experience as you understand it, it began to scream at a poll, that all this is also the result of a poll. For 60% asks for what today led the Dionysus with real pain, pain and anxiety to say that "do not deprive me of my future, without being one of the failures of the educational system". Well, Mrs. Keramos, since this language you understand - even though you are not in the Chamber - I will answer you in the same language, in the language of the polls. There is a poll, Mrs.Kerameou, since you beat up these papers, which says that for crime, barbaricity, with international global turbulence, in Thessaloniki for the secondment of the ancients 62% of the citizens overwhelmingly says that "let the ancients where they are and make the metro". This poll why don't you take it into account to change the Mitsotakis criminal decision within one night for the subway and the ancients in Venizelos? Because you're fighting with the truth and because you're not what you're doing, you're what you're saying. Mr Skreka, it took forty-five minutes of political chatter to tell us the simple thing: Consider the legalisation of a modern supermarket, a new popular market, and, indeed, around 2 minutes, it ends and is being sold off and discounted, or you consider the parliamentary legislature to be a juke boxing order. To confirm that you describe or think you are running a different country from that experienced by all Greeks, I would like to remind you of two things: Yesterday in this Chamber - I call on the testimony of Mr. Constantinople, because he was President and Mr. Famelou - the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, said about the island that became the " miracle" and within one and a half days the epidemiological burden and the problem - I hope it is so, because we do not invest in the country's destruction for reasons of communication - this is the following: "But there are no cancellations in Mykonos. Where did you see them? You are enemies of the country". Really? Is this government represented by ministers who thought in Mykonos last afternoon or in other islands is everything okay? One example. Let me not remember Mr Chardalia, who said he was unresponsible for environmental and civil protection issues. Mr Skreka, I understand that because of the load of this 'club sandwich' bill you did not have the time to learn about developments in national matters. Not even for the curfew in Sheich Sue, which is indirectly in your responsibilities, did you not find the time to be informed? Not even for that? Because it is yet another mine in Thessaloniki, which has emerged from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the Environment Sector. And that's where you've been fierce again. As far as the bill is concerned, I referred to the legalisation of 'juke box', 'orders'. Article 119 Do you have the impression that your ability and study and appeal only to use communication as a political tool can blind all of us, when with Article 119 you give the possibility - 'kernel' unfairs reality - to escape everywhere in demarcated areas as inspirational structures or interventions demanded by your customer tank? Is it right to legislate and protect the environment? I am referring to Rule 119. Are you sure that the reader of this legislation in the future will not recognize your intentions? Are you also sure that in the case of waste treatment plants, with a characteristic example of AIA Lagada in Thessaloniki, in the second largest county, does not recognize the smuggling you are attempting? Firstly, while the studies have been prepared with the financing of the NRP, you choose - unknown because - again the public-private partnership. There's an environmental footprint on Lake Corona. If you've heard of her. You may remember her from interventions from Psamiadis back there. But it's still the problem. The footprint in Lake Coronea, with the practical abolition of the management body's administration, which you are doing for the other bodies, is being put at a very great risk. Is that none of your business? Isn't there any sensitivity to that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to end, Mr President, by saying this: 'I say a lot because I do not have time'. You, in this case, are doing much through unorthodox parliamentary interventions, such as this bill, because you do not have time. You don't have any political time. Time is over and the clip now runs in reverse. But you should know - most importantly - that what you are afraid of - and this has to do with the way you treat young people - will have an impact on all government action. Fear of young people, fear of what is young, fear of what is radical, fear of what is free, fear of what is cultivated, because you fear, above all, the truth. And you prove that to the environment, democracy and even pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Will you also use the time of your dentistry, Mr. Karathanasopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u218	Depending on that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u219	All right, you'll see. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, it is now forty-seven years since the Turkish invasion and occupation in Cyprus, in which all these years - particularly in the last few years - have been created to carry out the new biased projects which promote and speed up Erdogan's provocative visit to the Occupied Territories these days. Of course, the other parties have also referred to developments in the Cyprus issue and invasion. What did all the other parties cover up, though? They covered the role of the Americans and NATO, a very decisive role in its invasion and occupation. They supported the invasion and occupation of the Turks. And today, however, they encourage Turkish aggression in trying to extract it from Russia. Of course, along with the Greek bourgeoisie, they promote the co-management plans in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. So NATO and the Americans are the factor of destabilisation and the risks of the region, but also for our country's sovereign rights, despite the ambitious effort of all the other parties to present themselves as security and stability guards in the region. In this respect, the JRC firmly expresses its solidarity with the people of Cyprus, the peoples of Cyprus against foreign occupation, against Turkish occupation, for a single, independent Cyprus, with one sovereignty and with one citizenship, free from foreign bases and troops, without guarantors and protectors. This very objective is linked to the overall fight of the JRC against imperialist plans in the wider region, to decapitate our country from it, to return Greek troops from abroad, to close the American-Natural bases and to our release from the imperialist alliances. Of course, today, in the news - we have followed the well-known controversy between the government and the Qualified Opposition - they are the issues of education and the reactionary bill that is being discussed, which has been launched today in Parliament for the school's debate and the class differentiation of school, but above all the results of the introductory examinations and the communication of the bases. It is a cohort, when all these parties - the government, today, and the other parties that ruled in the previous period - and SYRIZA and PASOK - formed a high school - formed universities with multiple-speed and non-professional degrees and at the same time recognized the professional rights of the various colleges as an option for class barriers to education, the degradation of public education, the recovery from the wide-popular strata, the children of the populace, certain skills, so that they can be disposable workers and workers without rights. This planning has been implemented by all the governments and is being implemented by the current government. This coconut battle has, unfortunately, been developed on the territory of the massacre - literally - about thirty thousand children from their entry and exclusion from the EITs, which in essence demonstrates that the previous New Democracy law forms new barriers and new obstacles to access to the EITs, not all the children, but the children of the people. That's what's being brought to the slaughter. On the contrary, the children of the rich families have multiple opportunities and opportunities to go abroad to the various renowned universities, running out of your mouth honey when you speak them, even in the various colleges that operate in our country. Of course, the hypocrisy of the government also emerges when it says that in this way we are dealing with the phenomena of the white glue, instead of discussing that the white glue is the result of the high school of inquiry, which deprives children of education. We do not see the reality that through this process, today, children with high scores cannot join the school and the part of their preference. In other words, you are pushing the children of the people's classes into training schools and, of course, in the various colleges the children of the richest families, who together SYRIZA and New Democracy recognised the equivalence of their diplomas and professional rights. We call it clear. We call on the Government to proceed immediately, today, to the non-implementation of the regulation on the minimum import basis, which was implemented at a time when schools were closed down, the issues of pandemic have caused considerable problems for young children and have not been able to complete the educational process effectively. Of course, the draft law we are debating involves, on the one hand, incorporating the European Waste Management Directive, but also energy-related issues. Here, on energy issues, we have a revelation of the policy pursued by all governments, of the policy of liberalisation of the electricity market, of the European Union's policy of green transition. This effect is today seen in the rise in wholesale prices. It is a result of the policy followed by all the parties, because it is precisely because the package, the energy mix in our country tells us: more than 60% is a mixture which is imported, whether from natural gas - production of natural gas - or direct imports. Therefore, most of the consumption of electricity is covered by imports, it is imported. And here, the gas has been up 31% in the last two months. So here's the first impact. Secondly, the remaining 30% of this mixture consists of RES, i.e. the production of wind and photovoltaics, and the remaining 10% are hydroelectric primarily and 2% with 3% of lignites. So this energy mix, which is the result of the liberalisation of the electricity market and the green transition, launches prices. That is why we say that the green transition will be at the expense of the needs of the people and will lead to wider and even wider strata of the people living in conditions of energy poverty. So the impact of the political liberalisation of the electricity market, which has therefore been served by all governments, increases our country's energy dependence. Secondly, it does not give stability to the energy system. Thirdly, it leads to the degradation of energy sources, which are domestic sources of energy. Fourthly, it leads to increased tariffs. Fifthly, it has negative effects on workers, which in essence the years of liberalisation have reduced by 50% the number of workers in PPC, increased flexible forms of employment, increased the intensification of workers. So this is basically an anti-grassroots and anti-grassroots policy. On substance, we will see this next time gigantic and magnified even more, as with the regulations contained in the bill, which we are debating today, making it easier to place and place the RES, wind and photovoltaic parks, even in saturated areas, to install new RES, to create the networks for electricity transmission from RES, while the networks that serve the people's needs and the productive activities of our country are under collapse. This phenomenon is real. You met it with Iano in Kefalonia, where the outdated transmission system of power networks, which covered the people's needs, collapsed and the island is in blackout for about a week. While, on the contrary, the energy transmission networks from RES had nothing to do with them. This is what we see throughout Greece, where there are scenarios where no European programme, no government, no region or municipality has made sure that the networks, which will carry energy to the scenarios and to the remote regions, are formed. This will be even more painful, as will the whole process, based on the privatization path of the TEN. So, then, the strategic agreement of the Government, SYRIZA and the other parties in the fair transition, the anguish expressed by Mr Tsipras from this step on when the government will bring climate law, confirm the strategic agreement to meet the needs of business groups for transition to green energy and digital technology. It will be an option, which will shape conditions of exacerbation even more of social inequalities and, of course, it will also have the anti-government and anti-popular characteristics. On issues relating to the transposition of the European Waste Management Directive, the JRC's rapporteur, Manolis Syntakis, has been set up in detail and with sufficient capacity. Let me codify two - three points. On substance, the political option is precisely the implementation of the European Union's policy and the management of the waste that leads to commercialisation, leading to new taxes, new charges, even greater compensation for the people's population and the privatisation of waste management. That is European policy, and that is what you are all converging. You don't disagree. This policy has served all governments over the past period. A characteristic example: recycling was at the very beginning delivered to private individuals and no one changed this particular element. A very characteristic role has been played over time by the Hellenic Recycling Agency, which was essentially nothing but the wheelchair among the various alternatives - as you call them - anonymous management companies for which they will take and what parts they will take, but at the same time at the same time at the same time strive to eliminate any obstacle to the fulfilment of the interests of the various public limited companies that managed recycling. In fact, in recent years we have been following the awkward role it has played in wild competition between the Anonymous Packaging Recycling Company and the Anonymous Company Recycling, which we have seen recently having the polite sponsorship of the New Democracy Government under the vigilance of Mr. Piatt, who is interested in, precisely because this company is American interests. The changes that the government brings to this Greek Recycling Organization do nothing but maintain the characteristics that it has and turn it into a tax-payer for the collection of burial character at the expense of the people's layers, at the expense of the municipalities, which will transfer them to the popular layers and at the same time, are also the detainee, the auditor on the substance of the municipalities and the FODs. The second question, which arises in addition to commercialisation, privatization and recompense for the people's layers in terms of waste management, is irrational management. It is irrational, not because it does not continue, but because it serves the needs of business groups, both those active in recycling and those ready to operate in the incineration of waste. Besides, the European Union's 'basket' for waste management includes everything, and recycling and burning, but above all, this design is being implemented in areas that are degraded, in people's areas, and this also reflects provisions of the current draft law that highlight these issues. Finally, the recent avalanche amendments reveal that the provisions of spatial planning and urban planning which include nothing but the adaptation of planning and town planning provisions to the needs of investment projects of the major business groups are nothing but a set-up of these designs and photographic provisions. In this respect, Mr President, the JRC will vote in principle and in its entirety against all the articles and the amendments which the government has put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Butsikaki from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the New Democracy Government has been planning and implementing integrated plans for dynamic and sustainable development. We are moving forward with plans - areas for upgrading the protection of the environment and the country's shift to the green economy, through the framework of the National Plan for Energy and Climate Change. Today we're going one more step further. Today we are paving the way for the systematic and effective management of waste. Today, in the context of the National Waste Prevention Programme 2021-2030, for the first time we are introducing provisions for the management of waste that are integrated with those for recycling. Within a modern, comprehensive and coherent framework, we put recycling at the centre of environmental protection, in line with international and European standards. Our country is one of the first countries in the European Union and across Europe to adopt the European directive on the environmental impact of plastics. It is another success of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has twice as much organic waste as the European Union average. This must be stopped and dealt with immediately, since waste can, in most cases, be used as a raw material instead of being disposed of in the environment, thereby harming it. With the implementation of the draft law we are voting on today, on the one hand recycling of urban waste will reach 55% by 2025 and 65% by 2035, and on the other hand recycling of packaging will amount to 65% in 2025 and 70% in 2030. That's the target. It is feasible and realistic, however ambitious it may sound to you. State and society cooperate once again and jointly fight climate change. We are motivating producers of waste, citizens, businesses and local authorities to help reduce them. We're setting up material reuse centres. We are promoting green procurement in important sectors of the economy. We are strengthening the Greek Recycling Organization. We are organizing information campaigns for consumers, entrepreneurs and households. It is a duty for all of us to develop individual responsibility and ecological consciousness in our society and our children. This is a priority for this government. No big change can happen unless it adopts it unless society itself makes it its own property. A protagonist for a clean environment is the citizen himself, the one who has to change his production processes and consumption habits so that what we are today voting on is done and implemented. So we change Greece with an ally of the citizen. With the implementation of the “I pay what I fly” system, we reduce the landfill and put recycling as a priority for everyone. We are energising local government and civil society. We're making recycling a case of the whole society. We are strengthening the production of renewable energy in the context of the National Energy and Climate Plan. Finally, by modernising the provisions on urban planning and urban planning, we are giving further impetus to green growth. We have made an election commitment to the country's green transition and sustainable development. We are proving, once again, that the New Democracy does not only have a vision, but does its election commitments. We've already done it with the law on the gradual withdrawal of disposable plastics. With this initiative, our generation, my generation, is now becoming more and more aware that we cannot remain unrealistic using everyday products that are used only once and not recycled, but are perhaps in the environment for centuries. Let us not say about the Civic Opposition, which is now constantly talking about climate change and the environment, but which, when it was government, did nothing about it at all. Support, ladies and gentlemen, this bill and we can work together to implement it in practice the next day. It is a duty for everyone to contribute to this attempt to make recycling a way of life. This is the way to ensure a cleaner environment and a better quality of life for the future of children, to deliver to the next generations the world cleaner and more sustainable than the one we have received. I would therefore urge you all to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u223	To thank Mr. Butsikaki, who was the only one in the year. I'd like to invite Mr. Dimitris Vitsa from SYRIZA to Stepma. Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I basically wanted to present the amendment that we have tabled together with other colleagues from SYRIZA for the workers at Scaramaga shipyards. However, I can only comment on a point of the Minister of Education's position - these two last words put them in introductory form - and in particular that point he said that 'here is a problem, a hundred enter the universities, sixty come out and that needs to be improved'. One would expect a regular Minister of Education to speak - I am not saying what Euclids Tsakalotos said about education and so on - about what he will do, how it will make it easier for students, how more education will be provided, how 60% will become 70% and 80%. But he solved it at once. 100% did it 80%. So the rate went from 60 percent to 75%. There Carlo Killas raises his hands and starts writing his well-known manual "Four basic rules on stupidity". But at the same time we have to accept that this is not her problem. Her problem, like all the government, is to build a new crowd for private colleges. That's the problem, and she admitted it herself. How did he admit it? By saying that this year, not more than twenty thousand of Alexis Tsipras said, but nine thousand less in universities, hiding, of course, that the nine thousand are those who did not get the basis under the new system, its own system, and without taking into account what is going on with the minimum level of import. Anyway, I wanted to comment on this part. Now, as regards the amendment to a general number 990 and a specialist 84, as you know, the tender has been made and the Scaramaga Shipyards tender has been completed. The amount - I do not want to say - is about the same amount to understand that the international Olympiacos player, former Olympiacos player, was transferred to Liverpool. The same amount you get the Scaramaga shipyards. Based on this competition, the future of the workers is in the air. However, the problem of this amendment - not yet, we will also come with other amendments, in relation to this issue - is that it is in the air and the past of workers. I come and become specific. The Greek Shipyard company owes the employees about 120 million for their remuneration as of April 2012. In addition, there will also be a debt of around 30 million for their compensation, since the transfer of the company's assets to the majority will be terminated by the contract of employment of seven hundred and fifty-four employees. There is still a debt of about 10 million to a hundred fifty workers who have left from April 2012 to today and have not received their allowances. There is another debt of about 20 million in the hundred sixty employees of the former Tropical Materials Division. The sale price is 25.2 million, which will take the public or the special manager. You understand that this amount will pay out the costs of special management, the costs of which are due to the employees, due to the banks, the public, the EBRD, to other creditors. The result will be for workers to receive a minimum amount of money, compared with the 180 million due to them, which, if one adds to the fact that there are interest on late payments, exceeds 200 million. What do we have now? We have the following: We have the decision of the International Arbitration Court condemning the Greek State to pay the company "Greek Shipyards" the sum of 75,500,000 plus interest, which came from 2012-2014. I say the period more about Mrs Vultesis in relation to an extremely strange article that she wrote on the 'eiffimerida' site. That money will be paid anyway. They'll be paid. And the amendment actually raises the following question: this money should go to the workers. In any case, the government has nothing to gain today. It will either give them to the workers or give them to the Special Administrator. We in this amendment are doing something very positive that, if the Marios Ice rejects the appeal, regarding the judgment of the International Arbitration Tribunal, it will pay back the sums for which they have been seized, there is already a confiscation - I say, of the lawyers - in his hands as a third party, as or by the decision of the Multimember Court of Athens. So this is the main issue. By voting in favour of this amendment - and let the Minister responsible take this amendment to the Minister responsible - and workers take a large part of what is due to them by the HSY, but also now by the public. I want you to understand that it won't be Mr. Prokopio's fault. Mr Prokopiou, that is his company of interests, and I would say no one will lose, because otherwise they will go to some banks and everything else. I therefore consider it very important that this amendment should be voted on by the Greek Parliament. If it's rejected right now, it'll come back. Of course, there are still issues, because I am only talking about the industrial area and not about pier 4, which we will come back to, because you too need to strengthen the efforts of the Municipality of Heidari. After all, the party that New Democracy supported in the elections calls for, the area of pier 4 - or to understand it where the refugee hosting area is today, which will sometime soon cease to exist - to pass on to the inhabitants of western Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u225	Thank you for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative for an intervention on what Mr Vitsas said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u227	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u228	First of all, the problem of workers at the Scaramaga shipyards is well known and we could not disagree with what Mr Vitsas said. I said this last week that there is no justification for celebrating the government for a price which is much lower than what...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Catarini, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u230	I repeat, first of all, that I could not disagree with the contents of what Mr Vitsas said, because that is the request of the workers at the Scaramaga shipyards, and - as I said next week, Mr President - there is no justification for celebrating the government for the very low purchase price of the shipyards, which is far less than those due to the workers. But I think, Mr President, that before you table this amendment, you should also make a self-criticism as a party and as a previous government and the fact that you have led the yards to special management, but above all, for the time that you were a government and that there was a special management, that you do not take any legislative initiative, so that problems such as this can be removed, move along with the convenience of doing what you are asking for, and for the benefit of the workers. Perhaps such an important provision should come, Mr President, to a bill that will be here and the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Finance and that they will be able to accept it, debate it on the substance, because it is about the future of almost a thousand workers and not just to play with impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u232	It's not a matter now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u233	There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Vitsa, I didn't personally say about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u235	You are not a parliamentary representative, you are a MP. Let the parliamentary representative reply. We're continuing with Mrs. Pipili...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Constantinople, this is not happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u237	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Katrinis said about my speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u239	But he didn't make a personal point!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u240	He didn't say a word, because he could say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u241	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u242	...but it is called "to make self-criticism etc." from the party that the Scaramaga shipyards led them...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Vitsa, he criticized your party. He can't do it? Call your Parliamentary spokesman to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u244	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Vitsa, sit down. There's no matter. Parliamentary will be here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, do not say'seat' to me. The urgent tone is not the one that suits the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u247	But sit down, there's no reason. Mr. Vitsa, there's no personal matter. There's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Katrins spoke after my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u249	And what does it mean? If someone else talks after your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u250	Let me make a comment...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Vitsa, is there a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u252	Is that what you're asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u253	Is there? Did he offend you? Is there a personal matter? Oh, no. Please have a seat. Come on, Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u254	And no more, I didn't take off the mask to buy time. That's what happens to the perpetual ones. The protection of the environment was, as you know, a pre-election commitment by Mr.Mitsotakis for the green transition of Greece and in two years it is the multi-legislative bill, which deeds the election announcements. From the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL four and a half years, what has remained for the - within introductory - 'green' transition is the famous, punctual memory of the republic of SYRIZA, Mr. Rena Durou, that there is a left way to collect the garbage. And we saw the result. This bill, Minister, really interferes catalysts by energising waste management, which has been a great wound over the period of recycling and by diversifying it from other technocratic drafts of your Ministry, is that it finally integrates the citizen directly into the effort, because let us recognise that we are very much back on the issue of primary recycling. Furthermore, the importance of individual responsibility, which makes some parties on the left, the pink Left and the extreme right, to creeping down, as if the citizen were waiting for a status of Stalinist gravity, diversity and multitude, so that, for example, it could prevent the badly trusted citizen, who still throws the bag with the trash off the fourth floor. Ask the cleaning workers in the Municipality of Athens how many uncivilized daily face the effort of our city to remain clean. The behaviour of the citizens is therefore affected. I told you yesterday and I want you to listen carefully. There is a rumour - as there is a rumour with COVID that there is no COVID, the sprayed ones - and there are the sprayed ones who have been inside for years now, they have eroded common sense with this. "Don't throw the trash in the blue cans, because the municipalities pack it up and take it to the dumps." This has done huge damage to the daily life of the citizen, who believes it. This is a real crime. The anti-social behaviour of the citizens is then entered into the law by finally applying the "pay as far as I fly" through the organization of the municipalities, to start from 2024. I heard the spokesman - I do not remember exactly what the JRC was - and he said this, with which I was sorry, but I laughed. He said that the 'pay' that applies to many countries, not only in Europe, will be affected by the so-called 'blue' - the popular layers. But, the main representatives of the JRC, the people's layers are neither businesses nor factories nor restaurants, because they are usually, as are the strong households, who throw waste waste away and not the poor of the populace. In the case, of course, where the poor also flies his dirty layer and leaves it on the sidewalk for a week, without notifying the municipality, clearly and will pay. You also upgrade the quality of recyclable materials and units. At this point, I would like to tell you that I, as a recycling fan for thirty years, have had the luck as a journalist to visit a large recycling plant in Aspropyrgos, I think, of the Vouchela family. So I was impressed when I saw all these volumes, the tons of old newspapers, papers, cardboard, and even dirty, at this modern-day factory - which we were toured - to be turned into toilet and kitchen papers thirty years ago. I believe, Minister, since you are putting the schools, you can make a communication bar and ask the experts of the Ministry of Education, Ms. Keramos, to include in the programme the visits of all our children in the already existing factories and recycling plants, so that children themselves can see how important this is, for which they are now not given the real picture. Minister, I told you yesterday and yesterday in the committee with a very intense look, because I am indignant - I will show them here, and I will present them - if there is still this disgrace, especially in the center of Athens, your ministry will not be able to convince that there is really a will for recycling. Your Ministry cannot convince us of this when there is this daily situation - a reproach of stealing from the cans that consistent citizens go to and we empty them. Because, as I explained yesterday, this smuggling is tens of millions in favour of illegal 'cross-roots'. This paradox is a reproach for the image of a European country, this paradox is exploiting people, which is a shame. I feel ashamed to see weak people from a particular area, whose body type is already very weak, pushing through the center of Athens these iron carts. They go through every day in front of the Greek Parliament with these iron wheelchairs and while we have wheelchairs, however Trojans have never stopped them, because it is in breach of the COK to circulate all these overloaded and extremely dangerously dangerous for the bucklers themselves and for all of us wheelchairs. Nor has the Ministry of Labour intervened in the fact that we allow these people to work in far-reaching conditions, as the Ministry of Health has not intervened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In 2012, I had asked up-to-date questions and the General Chemistry of the State had told me that the recyclables from the water heaters and from the dumpster become pots, creams, household appliances. It is also responsible for the Ministry of Public Order, as is the Ministry of the Interior. As I said yesterday, Minister, I do not know what you will do, but until September this reproach must be extinguished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Pipilis, and respect for the time. Here comes Mr. George Papaliou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and then Ms. Maria Athanasios from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, after Mr Papaliou I would like the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u257	Good, Minister, you will take the floor after Mr. Papaliou. So Mr. Georgios Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in the field of legislation continues 'the same trophy, which is known'. The current draft law, incorporating two European directives into national legislation, introduces a number of provisions which are serious about energy, natural environment, planning and town planning. This is done by supervising provisions. In the context of the neoliberal model of financial management, provisions on the incineration of waste and the privatization of their management are also being drafted, as well as arrangements for separating the PPC from PPC, which is an essential condition for privatising the TEN. Indicative of the sloppy and unrelenting, I would say, legislating the New Democracy Government is that the bill cancels and amends legislative initiatives of the Government itself that had been presented as major real areas. For example, I mention the timetable for the completion of special town plans and for the Eye, which the Prime Minister himself announced, the procedure for authorising renewable energy sources, the arrangements for monitoring and supervising the energy market, even though Mr Hatzidakis said that competition and the market would solve all the problems, the changes to the new building regulation, the extension of the electronic building identity and others. The incorporation of these two directives comes very late and even a step before a fine is imposed on our country by the European Commission. As far as the specific forecasts are concerned, I would point out that the new national plan promotes the use of waste, namely combustion, which is in direct contrast with the waste management hierarchy. In this way, the policy of recycling is being sedated. In this context, municipalities do not receive recycling equipment from recycling systems and do not go beyond the separate collection, thus jeopardising the country with new fines, despite the fact that under governance SYRIZA significant reforms had been made for waste management through recycling, such as the criterion of product ecodesign, the incentive pricing policy and the separate collection in four currents. Thus, with the current bill, the country is taking steps back in this area, regressing. There are serious ambiguities as to the separate collection. In the case of inertia, large projects are excluded from the waste management obligations for the benefit of contractors and the environment. The burial fee, which under Law 4609/2019 had been replaced by the contribution to the aid of a circular economy. Thus, the burial fee will substantially enhance combustion, while there will be no tools to support the LAGs that delay recycling. I come to the question of energy, on the regulation on the privatisation of the TEN. Energy distribution networks are granted to a private operator, to a monopoly. This is another sale of public property, in this case a natural monopoly of particular importance for the so-called 'green transition', which is obviously being done to serve interests and specific interests. The regulation to privatise the TEDO is not a Memorandum of Understanding, but a governmental option to the detriment of the finances of the TEDO, PPC and the public. This is how energy transition is affected, the country's so-called ‘green’ transition, since all renewable energy sources are linked through the TEN. This transition is also accompanied by the great investment of smart cash. The public sector removes a strategic infrastructure with a social dimension for the country, while Europe and the whole world freezes privatisation and turns towards the public sector by strengthening it and re-publishing or restoring energy and water infrastructures. A strategic tool of the state is assigned, which, through the "smart cash" programme, will lead to the transition and transformation of the country's energy system. It should be noted that the transfer of the TENER to entities that do not have experience in the management of electricity networks, as is apparent from the statements made by PPC's governors, will be made to entities that are not experienced in the management of electricity networks and simply want to deprive the guaranteed public revenues. Two final references to two issues relating to the environment and energy. First of all, degreasement, whose time horizon you have confined aspiringly, contrary to what other countries do, Minister, leads to the post-linguistic age. That takes time to get there. However, you do not provide time for preparation, either, so that the regions affected by frustration, including the Megalopolis, are at risk of becoming a skull, with tragic consequences for the young people who live there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A second issue is the installation of wind turbines everywhere and without a placement. This is a cause for concern and concern. It also happens in areas of particularly natural beauty, because there is no organised spatial planning. The result is the installation of wind turbines not primarily respecting the environment and not taking into account all the parameters, the specificities, the specificities, the character and the comparative advantages of the areas and locations in which they are to be developed. This is also the case in the Peloponnese region, especially in Arcadia and Elias, because of the possible installation of wind turbines - indeed, wind turbines - in Mainalo and the Lycaon Mount. They are areas that are distinguished for their natural beauty, rich biodiversity and history. The development of wind turbines will affect the ecosystem and will bring about changes in all social functions, as well as in soft tourist development, which is the compass for the development of the area. One last, but equally important remark on the current anniversary of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish invasion is the continuation of the junta's coup against Macariou. In this way, the betrayal of Cyprus was completed, on the basis of a broader plan of the well-known imperialist forces, a plan which includes the continued occupation of 40% of the territory of Cyprus. Cyprus, even today, is still at the forefront of Turkish aggression and, of course, of known foreign forces and factors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u259	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u260	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if Cyprus falls in any way and comes under the control of Turkey, this will have painful consequences for all the other fields of Hellenism - the Aegean, Thrace - where Turkish aggression develops. To everyone's knowledge, especially the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u262	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to table a series of legislative improvements for Members' information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u264	Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution. Next, Mr. Michael Papadopoulos from New Democracy. Mrs Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. The contents of the draft law in question had been started so many years ago that the economic data envisaged had been calculated in drachmas. With this, let me say that, in comparison with the middle developed countries, our homeland in the issue of waste management and recyclable materials is decades behind the average, both in the management and use of resources, as well as in the issue of mobilisation and awareness of the population, mainly with emphasis on children and adolescents. Let's just remember the so-called blue recyclable barrels. When did they get placed? When did the information and awareness campaign of the general population begin? When did the first special blue recycling bags be distributed to households? Twenty years back. It was again late in connection with the advanced Western countries. Twenty years later, after a series of imposed fines, for reasons which reduce and degrade our country, after a number of lost and spent - for irrelevant reasons - funds that have been extracted from unaffected companies, which only had the same interest and in no way the collective and especially the environmental one, after generations of people who were then in small ages and who have been modulated in habits and attitudes and could have been sensitive, they could have been trained and trained in the next generations and, above all, after millions of more tons of lost waste, recyclable and non-recyclable, which were even more affected by the environment, we come to discover America! Except America's gone away even further than twenty years ago. This is because the opportunity for information, awareness and mobilisation of the population has been lost. Proof that citizens place recyclable materials in common waste bins and vice versa. Previous governments have failed or have been unwilling and indifferent to deal seriously with such an urgently sensitive issue, which has been resolved and is a daily life, as I have already said, in all developed countries, at least half a century ago. This issue has now been emphasised in collective consciousness as secondary and unmanageable. We have all travelled abroad, and we have noticed that there are no waste bins anywhere. You think they don't have any waste? On the other hand, the bins are located in buildings or residential buildings, citizens classify recyclable waste in special containers, the States are cooperating with companies which each separately undertake the use of recyclable materials. So they even gain through their waste. You have consulted the following outrageously: The results of positive self-tests recommended that common waste be discarded, with only a difference being entered into additional nylon bag. That's a huge sanitary bomb. Do you consider this to be a protection of public health and a culture of consciousness among citizens? When you are effectively degrading and dismissing strict measures and keeping health protocols, it is not possible to demand consistency from the citizens and, indeed, to fill them with guilt by moving your own enormous responsibilities to them. Citizens receive contradictory messages from you, and in this way you create confusion and feelings of guilt, but also disgrace. Continuing with the issue of waste management and recycling, unfortunately you have to go farther, to convince the citizens that you intend to manage recyclable waste and waste in an effective and reliable way. And that is now difficult, because you have created confidence in the citizens that you are unreliable and unwilling. Before you move on to 'pay as far as I fly', you should first overthrow this people's conviction in practice and then launch a campaign to inform and provide citizens with the necessary equipment, provided that you do not leave this project in the middle this time. What do you intend to be the project? The example of this is provided by the Western European countries, with the result that waste, which is intended for landfill sites, is limited to a minimum. Special recycling containers by species both indoor and in private areas. I explain: Place different bins per type of recycled waste - glass, plastic, paper, aluminium - as successfully applied at our home airports. These candles should also be extended to outdoors, with a clear separation by type of recyclable material, to remain clean, to be emptied regularly and clearly, so that people see that the state is interested and involved. Finally, the distribution of corresponding specific concentration boxes of the above recyclable materials, paper, aluminium, glass and plastics, per species, to each household. In addition, for household waste, food residues should be distributed by municipalities, multi-digit composters, which convert food waste into natural fertilisers, tested and fully achieved in countries of northern Western Europe. In fact, in countries such as France, Italy, Germany and others, special containers per type of waste are connected directly from the building in special communal areas and the waste is transported with special funnels directly into containers accessible to the respective collection service, with very impressive results. Even natural waste can be used by appropriate treatment to be used in the creation of methane either of fuel or even used as a household heating raw material, saving on the one hand, and on the other, raw materials other than a waste of natural resources. What I am saying is not a result of my imagination, but methods of tested and applied years in Scandinavia, France, Italy, where I have lived many years, the Netherlands and many other countries, which, in practice, show their respect for the environment. Finally, all of this is a first-class opportunity to prosecute public revenue both through the savings of resources and through the development and activity of a new type of industry, which has proved to be very profitable. Indeed, because this activity has proved to be treasured in the countries to which it is implemented it could well be administered by public service groups or companies of interest in the Greek public sector, thereby giving enormous public benefits, but also by offering hundreds of thousands of valuable jobs for many professional sectors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. A political will is needed and we wish you to have it, because the management of waste, waste water and recyclable materials, in addition to protecting our rich environment, is also a first-class opportunity for economic flourishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u266	Thank you for the time too. Mr Michael Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am not forgetting the invasion of Cyprus, as I certainly do not forget the genocide in Pontus and Asia Minor until they are justified. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are discussing an important multiplier bill, and I believe that no one in this Chamber disagrees that the promotion of recycling, the cyclical economy and the main tools of the policy on rational waste management, as well as the strengthening of the supervisory and control role of the state, is a very serious matter. It's a serious case for our future. However, I find it incomprehensible that the recycling of waste in Greece should not be allowed to move to 20%, when unlike the European average is at 50%. Ladies and gentlemen, a nice piece of work says: 'We cannot continue living on this planet as if we had someone else we would probably like and could go'. It's important that we become a witness to each and every one of us. These issues are today integrated into a single and coherent framework and become a matter for the whole of society, as must be done. Because all responsible citizens must contribute to the green transition of our country, to its sustainable development. But further, energy and the energy market regulations and the corresponding provisions are necessary to implement the government's programming commitments to Greece and the European Union. In addition, the provisions of the Plan on Spatial Planning, Urban Planning incorporate and improve conclusions from the implementation of previous regulations. In any case, however, the debate with the bodies, citizens, municipalities and all involved, but also the activation that needs to be done with them, Minister, and after the draft law has been passed. We must ally ourselves to ensure a better quality of life for our children and the next generations. And finally, let this barren criticism stop, especially from SYRIZA. I listened with caution to the Chief of Officer Response and many colleagues in the Response. Although we have become accustomed to all the Members as well as the citizens who now have a heartfelt view of the political system, which the opposition is trying to do, it is bad that it is for the parliamentary group to function. I have repeatedly heard the word defoliation. I'm sorry, but most people don't even know what it means. Most people have not realised that defoliation has started for several years, with a mere rationale. See how the use of lignite is reduced over the last decade in energy production. What's that? Illegalisation is this, just now the Prime Minister is doing so seriously, with responsibility, but above all with a plan. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard, the promotion of waste prevention through its reuse and the creation of creative reuse centres in municipalities, secondly, the implementation of the 'pay' system, according to which municipalities can form municipal fees depending on how much waste they produce and how much each citizen recycles, thirdly, the burial fee, fourthly the system of guarantee for aluminium packaging and disposable glass bottles, the separate collection of hazardous waste to households from everyday use, the obligation to separately collect and recycle bio-waste from large producers under their responsibility, the compulsory creation of alternative management by producers and importers and, lastly, the prevention of food waste, by encouraging the redistribution of food for human consumption: all these are very positive measures, of course, on a condition of course. The fact that the State, the State, the central government will implement its own obligations in resources and procedures to municipalities, collective bodies and citizens respectively. Also, the development of the network infrastructure by the operator, the DEDDIE, for the installation of RES projects, the company transformation of PPC SA, the licensing arrangements for hybrid RES and RES and and storage of electricity, the establishment of a market monitoring and surveillance mechanism by RAE, the arrangements for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons: all these are important positive arrangements that the market expects them. The stakeholders have heard and I wonder what you do not understand. Don't you hear the agencies? Do you not humiliate what the institutional bodies, society and the stakeholders say? I didn't see it in this conversation you'd understand. In particular, I would like to focus on determining the allocation of revenues from auctions, the rights for emissions of pollutants for the years 2021-2030 and, in particular, the misappropriation of advances for interim payments from the Support and Development Programme for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in the Green Fund. I am talking specifically about the lignite basin, the Kozani Prefectures, Florinas and the unity of Megalopolis. Support for enterprises in these areas is essential and must be made timely and crucial for the rescue of jobs. For us, in western Macedonia, in Kozani and in Florina, jobs are a very important bet not only to be maintained but to increase, because, as you all know, western Macedonia is also with the highest unemployment rate. Besides, in my opinion, resources need to be directed towards the implementation of territorial plans in order to multiply their results and their benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. On this occasion, I would like, with the Ministers and Mr Mousouroulis, with whom I work and have excellent cooperation so far, to point out that a lot of very rapid efforts have been made and an excellent work is being promoted. I believe, however, that this step must be taken to the short-term measures we have already discussed, we have mentioned both the local players, the players and all of us, the Members of the parliaments involved, because the situation of the territories and the restoration of mines is equally important and urgent. So I am sure - most of us and I believe this - in the medium and long term the Kozani, Florina, the lignite regions and the rest of the country will go to a new production model that will benefit from the implementation of the fair transition plan promoted by the Mitsotakis Government. What we are saying today, what we are talking about as a government and as parliamentarians, is that we can and should have the power, the pleasure of announcing them and implementing them. I therefore agree with you and call on you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u268	Thank you. Now Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis comes from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and then Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, how long will the meeting last?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u270	He's got at least two or three hours of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u272	Take it easy. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, has announced an ambitious choice, otherwise, of speeding up the procedures for the Special Spatial Plan and the hormonal interventions in the wider area of Mati, a crime of decades that has naturally been completed with the serious destruction and loss of human lives. Two years have passed, and indeed, at the very edge of his speech, he said that he will force speeding up the procedures and, if possible, in a year when the contracts that are in progress with the Technical Chamber of Greece are completed, so that we can have a Special Spatial Plan, a background, which, as a gospel, will be followed by the local and not just society, so that we can change the status quo of this pathway in eastern Attica and, in particular, in this area. In a year, he announced. It has been two years and you are coming today to ask for an extension for another year. Here we will be in July 2022 to see what happens. It is legally certain that an extension will occur then. This is the construction, it is the epitome inconsistencies of words and actions and it was accomplished here, it took place here, from the Step of the House by the Prime Minister. So some people have a responsibility and some have to apologize for that. It is a responsibility which I have proved to be an epitome of inconsistencies. I am leaving the spatial planning section and I shall go to the essential point, in my view, concerning the management of waste and, indeed, the heavyweight title of the integrated waste management framework, most of course solid, because this is what this draft law deals with and which embodies some Community directives in order to be able to overlap. In fact, I was surprised that the Minister previously tried to fruit up Community and Union directives on matters which are obviously in a positive direction and, of course, are not his and are not his sidelines. Because, if it were, it would have taken place in the previous period, all these years. We therefore have the following, ladies and gentlemen: There is a structural effort, which the government is actually attempting to change in recent years, a coordinated effort based on the National Waste Management Plan. Of course, we also have the National Plan for the Cyclic Economy. All of these were the legislative initiatives of the previous SYRIZA government and then put a order in the absolute chaos that prevailed over the past few years. In fact, concrete results have been achieved. I will only speak to you about my own region which is aware of the situation, because I have served the institution of self-government. We have units that were auctioned, joined, contracted, are now being executed, as is in Rethymnon, Sitia, Heraklion's Environmental Park of Cyclic Economy, which has been awaiting its approval for months, and indeed, the processing plant is worthwhile because it has not yet gone into. In any case, it is an attempt through public works rather than PPP, which is your new dear object in this direction. So the time has come when, throughout the rest of the country, the maturation and incorporation of waste treatment plants, as by magic, comes the placement of four or six - that is also a question - of combustion plants. How is it possible, Minister - I refer to you - Mr Secretary-General for Solid Waste Management, to speed up the combustion plants process, when at least the integrations, if not the execution of waste treatment plants, have taken place? What will ultimately result in burning, remnants, or will we go to reasonable mass-burning, total burning, with what this implies for the environment, for the citizens of our children? It is a question which - and I stress it from here - needs to be answered. With regard to the cyclical economy, the cyclical economy finally came again on the initiative of SYRIZA, the previous government - and today is the then Minister Socrates Famelos - and it is an attempt to change this wrong consumer model, the linear consumer model that existed for years, which was abrupt to an extreme capitalist approach - consumer, I would say, more approach - where was it? Acquisition of the product, use of the product, disposal. We must finally close the cycle, we must really go to the logic of reuse, we must give products a second chance, so that we can really change the mentalité of the next generations. And what are you doing here? This is precisely what is being shattered and, in a very challenging way, to the extent that the public feels about the law. For example, the 'pay-as-you-throw' which was a catalytic piece of legislation and logic - by the European Union, after all - is degraded in one direction. For example, in the islands, on the basis of the limit of more than a hundred beds and a population of over twenty thousand, the total, the vast majority of the islands and the islands of the country are out, so they do not enter that logic, do not enter that concept. Also, to us very importantly, the four currents that were made by the previous government and by us everyone serving self-government, we entered the schools, passed on to our children the logic of paper, iron, glass. So what now? Now we're going back to burning logic? Are we going back to this logic, without criteria and without, if you wish, a more correct concept? I think it is incomprehensible that an agency, rather than an agency, should be strengthened by resources. You are responsible for self-government with responsibilities - without giving it the slightest resource. On the contrary, he goes to a national agency which is also undersettled is also dubious of ability to respond to his role and has many - many other asterisks. A parentheses here for your holistic plan. Self-test, masks, hazardous waste. What's going on here? Neither a single word, nor a prevention, nor a provision, when there are Scandinavian countries such as Finland, Norway, Sweden that have saved EUR 8 billion from their prevention, nor is it possible to shield the public health that exists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think I have a lot more to say on the issues of self-government. After all, to the institutions and the CEDEFOP itself, which is certainly not an institution belonging to us, I think that they have tabled proposals that have become critical and basically demonstrate the logic that you are following, a municipality really garbage and not to perform the role it should have. To conclude, a comment on an amendment that has arrived and relates to the area that I represent, Heraklion. It's about the National Sports Center of Heraklion, a pharaonic type prediction, 38% coverage. The known engineers will understand. Building 0,36 12 meters high, four-storey building, at the National Sports Center and be careful without the Municipality of Heraklion knowing anything at all. When the Panghretio Stadium, one of the largest stages of the country, has connected this surface because of the parking to license the environmental impact study, the Municipality of Heraklion is moving in contact with this property, it is connected with this process and now you come, in a way that I would call it brutal, will be ratified by this amendment. It is a mistake, it is a dangerous one and the main issues arise as regards safety for the visitors of the swimming pool, closed gyms, given the problematic dimension of the traffic connection. I would point out that, because it is also a question of town planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u274	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy. Then Mr. Gikas, Mrs. Gara, Mrs. Alexopoulou and Mr. Kotrias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this draft law represents a step forward, our common future, which requires environmental protection and more effective waste and recycling management policies, which are promoted by this legislation. It is worth wondering that on a subject that is national and, why not, European and global opposition is trying to turn it into a political controversy, a confrontation that is completely unrealistic and rather opportune. To make it simpler, it is his opposition tactic "whatever he sits." You are not considering the substance of the arguments, ladies and gentlemen, you do not take into account the legislative needs, but you are simply holding a sterile opposition. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, two years after the pandemic you see your popular successes. The debate on today's draft law concerns first and foremost the incorporation of two European directives into the national legal order, two directives concerning the more effective management of waste and the updating of the recycling framework for packaging and waste. Is it possible for such a procedure to be a field of controversy? And I say it not only because it is Union law, but because the environment emits SOS and we must protect it with what we have at our disposal to ensure the quality of life of the next generations and a sustainable future for our country. As the Minister pointed out, Greece records a negative record on landfill, since 80% of the waste is buried here in our country. At a time when the European average is 20%. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have, for four and a half years in the government, so you have done nothing at all. This situation does not represent us as either a nation or a culture, and that is why we are changing it. This is primarily thanks to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is the first politician in this Chamber to raise the environment to a national priority since the beginning of his political career. First of all, under this legislation, we are forming a system of environmental governance for waste management and recycling, which is based on the exploitation of the capacity of the LAG, the mobilisation of citizens and the business community as a function of supervised objectives. The creation of Creative Material Reuse Centres, CIDs, in each municipality of more than twenty thousand inhabitants, will enable citizens to channel to reuse electrical equipment, clothes, furniture and other items. By 2028 the "pay as far as I fly" system will operate, according to which municipal charges will be fixed depending on how much waste produces and recycles each citizen rather than on the basis of square real estate. At the same time, care is taken to reduce food waste by 30% by 2030, through the recording and redistribution of unavailable surpluses created in hotels, food supermarkets and processing plants, while the repair of electrical goods and furniture is being promoted. Producers and importers are obliged to organise and operate alternative waste management systems by 2024, ensuring the management of particular categories of products, such as greenhouse gases, irrigation tubes, pharmaceutical products, mattresses, furniture, electrical skates and others. I would like to stress here in relation to the primary sector that arrangements are included to channel waste from intensive poultry and pig production units into composting plants and to simplify the licensing procedures of the latter. By 2030, recycling of plastics, wood, metals, aluminium, glass, paper, packaging paper of these wastes is planned to reach 85% even. The Greek Recycling Agency is reinforced with more responsibilities to supervise waste management processes, while a series of processing plants such as bazaars, incineration plants, tire cutting and scrap, must have an ISO 14001 or EMAS environmental management system. The project to ensure environmental sustainability depends primarily on the next generations and because, as the Prime Minister has said, it is all a matter of education, which is why this bill contains a provision to strengthen environmental awareness through education. From 1 January 2022 the compulsory collection of paper, glass, plastics, metals, batteries and food waste will be introduced into schools. In addition, the draft law extends to two more axes of provisions relating to the electricity market and to urban and spatial planning. With the energy provisions we welcome investment in RES in relation to the country's energy security and we are clearly in favour of substituting the cable networks in forest areas, which also contribute to anti-nuclear protection. At the same time, it is necessary to renew the obsolete network of the DEDEN, as well as experienced staff, in order to avoid the many power cuts that cause damage to primary production and, of course, to tourism, especially in the summer months. Finally, with regard to spatial planning and town planning arrangements, Minister, the installation of factored reception zones and the start of local town planning plans will put brakes on the off-site construction and determine land use, construction conditions and protection areas throughout the territory. Of course it was necessary to extend the validity of this extension until 30 September 2021 - I here, Minister, would take it until 31 December, I tell you to take it seriously - the certification of engineers without having to draw up a building identity requirement so that the market is reheated. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a legislation that strongly pushes our country on the path of sustainability and sustainable development, a draft law with a strong environmental sign, which is a central option of the Mitsotakis Government for the country's economy over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. Next, Mr. Stefanos Gikas from New Democracy, then Mrs. Gara. Immediately after that, the Minister, Mr Tagaras, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today is the anniversary of the Turkish invasion and with the provocative actions of the Turkish officials and, above all, Erdogan, it is perfectly justified - we see it before us - that the Prime Minister's decision to quadruple the Armed Forces' armaments expenditure and to have a stronger deterrent capacity. I'm getting to the main thing. I listened very carefully to Mr Tsipras, who said a few hours ago - I read from the Minutes - that 'the country is going back on implementing key reforms as far as, I repeat, waste management is concerned, reforms that our government has carried out'. You know, I come from Corfu, from an area which has suffered a great deal of damage from the incompetence, inefficiency, irresponsibility, intimacy of the previous SYRIZA government, local and central, with the result - all of you will have seen - what we experienced in the four and a half years that SYRIZA had been government, but also his representatives in Corfu. In the country's first year of governance, this government has politically solved the problem of waste in Corfu. It legislated about this time ago, about a month ago, a law that created a new rating for the Ionian Islands. It closed the HYTA of Lefkimi and, of course, a government decision was taken to transfer Corfu waste to other areas until the integrated waste management plant was completed, which in 2014-15 then rejected the New Democracy proposal for ideological and ideological reasons. And now comes the Chief of Officership and all SYRIZA colleagues and accuse this government of not being a reform government. But, of course, it is a reformist government, and this legislation is particularly reformist. And I'm explaining why. It is true that all these years we have been unable for the Greeks to have an environmental conscience in the country and we have not done what we could do for recycling and the cyclical economy. All colleagues have said so. I'll repeat it myself. Recycling in Greece is 20%, when the average European is 50% and 2025, that is, four years from now, we have to get to 55%. Also, our country is a negative champion in burial, after over 80% of the waste was burial. This draft law therefore constitutes a great reform, after adopting the relevant Directives of the European Union and establishing an integrated framework with clear quantitative objectives and timetables, contains incentives and strict sanctions for non-compliance. It aims at preventing urban waste production, increasing recycling and significantly reducing landfill. These are the three objectives that this bill aspires to fulfil. Some major timelines are in. At the end of 2023 municipalities with more than twenty thousand inhabitants are obliged to create the creative reuse centres, which will, of course, limit the amount of waste. A great deal of bet for our country is the reduction of food waste, since Greek society - and this is true - produces too much. The aim is to reduce this food waste by 30% in 2030 compared with 2022, an ambitious objective which must, however, be achieved. Here, of course, the donation of food surpluses is encouraged, their redistribution and further processing for human consumption. At the same time, as from 1 January 2022, that is after six months, markets, supermarkets, major hotels, large restaurants are obliged to register the food waste produced and the surplus of food available as donation on a dedicated platform. Escalators - and this is very important - are also being established - percentage targets for separate collection of waste from paper, metal, plastic and glass from households in order to reus or recycle. Also, at the end of this year, municipalities are obliged to collect biowaste separately. It is also very important - and in our country it is very important - that the refund system for disposable packaging, of course, of aluminium, glass and plastic, where the consumer be charged the price, but returned to him as soon as he delivers it. Moreover, since September 1, 2022, a separate collection of paper, plastics, metals and batteries will take place, as will food waste, so that our youth will enter the culture of recycling. From 1 January 2022, too, the general government bodies will carry out the separate collection of paper, which is not currently being done. There are too many other things I want to say. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, as of 1 January 2022, it will be imposed on the municipalities and the PFOs a waste burial fee, which will be attributed to the Hellenic Recycling Agency. And that, of course, creates an additional incentive to create fewer waste, to avoid landfilling and to promote recycling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u278	Give me a minute more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u279	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u280	I would like to dwell on an amendment tabled concerning forest maps and, in particular, the property regime. I will welcome this initiative by the government. It is in the absolutely positive direction. Everyone knows that the Ionian islands have a different property regime. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] I would just ask you, Minister, to see Article 2, the addition which Mr Cappatos has tabled to you, so that the words 'and a mortgage room' can be added, so that they can give exactly what we want from this amendment. So, in short, it is a bill that is very important. It's taking us to the 21st century, I'd say. We are adopting practices by the European Union and, of course, we are voting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, too. Good evening to you and me. Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I could not today mention the crime currently being committed on the backs of young children who have given full-scale examinations, a crime by applying the minimum import base which will exclude more than twenty thousand children from public higher education in the interests of private colleges or universities abroad. The New Democracy Government talked to us and was looking guilty for Brain Drain. Here's the guilty ones. It is the crime of the minimum import base which will lead to dozens of regional university departments in closure. However, they ensured that the ministers of the New Democracy ensured guaranteed customers for colleges. Besides, that's what they care about, to serve the "decoration" that they've done for a long time. Even excellent students who have raised over twenty thousand molecules will be excluded from their selection schools, such as the Architecture School because of the U.S. at special courses. We're wondering. What excellence do they serve? Because they have made it a slogan in their political communication. The excellence of the wallet? Unfortunately, it is the most dangerous, most destructive, cynical, the most irreversible government for this country, for this society and, above all, for the new generation of our country. I was waiting today for the Minister, Mrs Kerameou, to announce changes to the failed model that she has voted on and not to apply the minimum import base. But he came here cynically to insult our intelligence, but to offend students and families who, yes, have succeeded, but are tested because of the choices of this government. It has shown us once again that this Minister, its advisers and the entire government are irrelevant to matters of public education, they are irrelevant to the needs of society and in every word they sow hatred and class discrimination and division for our youth, for education, for real education, effectively cutting off the wings, dreams, the prospect of the new generation of our country. But a crime as a whole is also the bill that comes to be voted on today. It's an environmental, energy, labour, social, national crime. It's a bill in which all the scandals, privatizations, deals and rumpets are all over. New Democracy's habit and characteristic over time. It doesn't surprise us. It is a crime that TEDO is privatised at the expense of the financial interests of PPC and society and of the public interest. The distribution network is allocated to speculative funds which have no relationship, as far as we are concerned, with electricity networks, a strategic tool of the state, a substantial, important monopoly with a guaranteed annual income for at least the next four years. Do you understand, Minister, what it means to border, border regions such as Thrace, the management of the energy networks by a single private person? Do you grant the interests and safety of our own areas on the mountains of a single private person? Are there any security differences that will force these speculative funds to obey what is demanded by the public and national interests? I honestly wonder why we've put it many times and you haven't answered it. Of course, too, the accuracy. The price of electricity has increased rapidly for Greek households, as has the cuts in families in the midst of a pandemic. Even with the authorisation of the RES, you are forensic, Minister. You said you were going to simplify the licensing procedure. You abolished the energy communities. You canceled the criteria and the 25 million-dollar financial programme guaranteed by SYRIZA. Now, we see Greece being filled with wind turbines, with photovoltaic systems, even in high productivity land, creating too many problems in agricultural production by investors who saw light and went in just, without knowing what the effectiveness of these works is. You have created a salt and conditions of Far West in the RES market, while local societies are really rebellious, defending the social and environmental interest. At the same time, a regime is introduced for the installation of electricity distribution networks in forests and forests without an intervention approval that opens the coast of Halos for the construction of forest works, which have been protected for a century from our Constitution, plus the possibility that you will give for the change in conditions of construction and land use on a case-by-case basis based on business interests exceptionally. I wonder how many services and interests are behind these provisions? Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been a long time since the last environmentally sound Hatzidakis bill that effectively abolished the management bodies of protected areas, while putting insecurity the four hundred workers to those who had started their permanentisation and the protection of their jobs, while effectively abolishing the protection of the NATURA regions, promoting even mining and mining activities in these areas. And now, with your arrangements for the OPEKA, you continue this Athenian-centre crime, which you call "political and management". And we move on to criminal provisions on waste management. Promote the burning, privatization and degradation of recycling and the cyclical economy, cancelling the great reform launched by SYRIZA with the benefit of citizens, municipalities and the environment. All you care about here is moving forward with the deals, which you have closed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President, please. I would remind you that in 2015, in the government of SYRIZA, the new National Waste Management Plan was completed and regional plans and major projects were followed. I will bring Evros as an example, where we amended the study that provided for an expensive PPP prior to the Alexandroupolis waste treatment plant and brought a plan that was compatible with real data and with 100% public funding. Alexandroupolis was the first major project of regional planning in our region on SYRIZA and is characterised by an economy of natural and energy resources, recovery of materials, creation of new jobs in a way beneficial and environmentally sound for the local society and economy. This is a project that provides a way out of the management of Rhodope and Evros waste, which is currently served exclusively by the super-computer - saturated KYTAS Komotini, carrying the waste there and with superb costs. This is a crime for which previous governments have not accounted for the citizens of our region. With the new AAC in Alexandroupolis, there is therefore an exemption from the waste burial tax, lower fees for the citizens, but also the application of the lowest waste treatment section in Greece. At the same time, we designed the construction of a second ACE in northern Evros for better management and decommissioning, which is in the process of completing studies. I hope that it will not stop and not change the design for this ACE. We have therefore demonstrated that projects can be done in public, properly, economically, cyclically, in public interest and thus in our places being free and cheap. It seems to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that we have demonstrated and proved to Evros, but also to other regions, that things can be done differently and in the best way in the interests of the citizens. In contrast, therefore, with this planning, you - and I am closing down, Mr President - are drugizing recycling and sorting at source. You remove responsibilities from the municipalities and with the combustion plants you increase costs for citizens. You are not concerned with the burden of environmental indicators, cancel or refuse to implement positive measures adopted by SYRIZA, such as the separate collection in four currents, the separate collection of biowaste, the pricing policy that gave incentives for recycling, the contribution of a circular economy to the municipalities in order to make investments for recycling and waste management. All you are promoting, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is a scandal of millions of euros, deals and recycling. You have set up a country-wide money cutting industry to serve specific business interests. These are the achievements and crimes of the "excellent" of the New Democracy and the Green, Mr. Mitsotakis, as the "Petots" media would like to present him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolaos Tagaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u285	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard all of their colleagues and their comments on the bill that we are debating in committee last week. I have heard all those who have spoken in plenary today and mentioned many things. I would like to say that it is a question of democracy, of democracy, of risk labelling, but it is more important and more creative than that which is being heard in plenary session, in addition to complaints, so-called services of interest and of exodus, of hearing proposals and, in any case, of being specific, because horizontal burdens and complaints do not offer anything when it comes to high tones. And since our Minister has referred to issues relating to recycling, waste and energy, he will also refer to the regulations on forestry and the bill, but also to the amendments, I will be allowed to deal with spatial and urban issues raised in the bill and the amendment. Let me start from local town planning plans and special town planning plans, because I have heard that we have interests through them. First of all, do we know what local town plans are to see if they can serve interests? Local town planning projects are under way in general town planning and urban planning plans. They're coming to put order in the space. That is why they define land use, define construction conditions, demarcate settlements, demarcate city plans, areas to be built, protected areas, demarcate streams. All this to get ordered into space. This is the aim and role of this design in four phases, in four studies. It is the main study, the strategic environmental impact study, the study of assessment and geological risks, as well as of geological suitability, and the delimitation of fields, traffic regulations, consequences of natural disasters and technological disasters. There is a number of petitions - which is the basis for the space and all this at the end is adopted by a presidential decree, i.e. passing through the Council of State. And after they pass through, how it is possible to serve interests since they will be checked and after the control of the Council of State will be approved and applied. I say this because it is good reports, but the arguments must be based. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the issue of the lack of planning which has led us to the unregulated, but also to the arbitrary construction, but also to the conflict of activities, we are coming with an unprecedented extent in terms of credit, but also from the point of view of the timing of completion of the project with more than 70% of the territory with more than 400 million budgets. All designs, local town planning plans, special urban plans, reception zones rate, delimitation of settlements, delimitation of rafts, all this in four years, by the end of 2025 will have been completed. Such size in such a time and with such an extent has never been in the past. We know that it is a bet very large, but the needs and demands of the time in relation to past delays require no waiting and no more lost time. It's the bet we all have to win together. Proposals we hear, corrections are ready to do, but proposals of creative nature and not of extremism. I heard: How do you modify the GMO? How do you modify out of plan construction through design? But all the economic regulations from Decree-Law 23 of 1955 at GOK, 1973, 1985, are laws of 2012 and we are coming by presidential decree to change points of these laws. And we're not talking about horizontal provisions. Uses are not a horizontal arrangement. Building conditions are not a horizontal arrangement. On the contrary, depending on the specificities of each region, the uses must be different, but the conditions of construction must also be upwards and downwards. I have heard about the provisions that we are bringing about outside planning. Because problems were encountered, especially for off-project construction after Law 4759/20 and many HSB did not issue permits or raise questions of interpretation. So we come and say first of all where L.4759 applies and where there is no first level of planning, there is no GPSD, there is no FLOD, there are no residential control zones, there is no CSCE, there is no CSCE. This is the case with Law 4759. Where such designs exist, it shall not apply. That is the first observation. Secondly, because it has been given a transitional provision to the derogating excellence for two years again, the possibility of building has been reduced in the areas in force under Law 4759, for example, at home from two to four acres is an eighty-six square meters. There was no clarification, however, of what the smaller ones are doing in the derogations. Seven hundred and fifty square squares in a thousand and two acres, how does it escalate? In proportion to the existing - because I have heard more - of mathematical formula for the calculation and distribution of the two-square blocks. Where two hundred squares apply, where Law 4759 does not apply, there is the corresponding mathematical formula for small excellences. We have come and added where the hundreds of eighty-six will apply to make the field clear and there will be no delays. That's not all we did, though. In the case of stores and offices where there was a maximum building covered six hundred square feet, where Law 4759 did not apply. There, however, is five hundred fifty. In new activities, e.g. data centres, supply chain, we are coming to fill in gaps concerning conditions of construction and we are doing so. They may be new activities, but they are developing dynamically and we want to clarify the landscape for what is allowed here and in what way. As far as the burden is concerned - where Legislative Decree 4759 - is concerned, it is clear that the cost is 5% on the contractual budget, but we add five thousand to where there is a detailed budget. There was a gap there. At the same time, we are setting limits not less than EUR 250 and not more than EUR 5,000. These clarify the scenery, because there were gaps or ambiguities here too. I come to another important point that has been raised, in the sense of the public road to off-project construction. Look, uses we define, excellence determine, but if there is no building capacity, it doesn't make any sense. And for there to be build-up in relation to the roads, what is the concept of the common road in the off-project construction on which the stadium considers to have a face here after 2003 and the technicians know better, there is a subject. To solve this problem, which is a time-lag, especially after 2003, we come and include provisions. These provisions say that the municipality and the Ministry may record the roads with specifications and criteria set by ministerial decision and then come the coordinator of the decentralised administration by a cancellation decision. I heard before that he would make the decision without specifications and conditions and criteria. Oh, no. A presidential decree setting out the terms and criteria on which the coordinator of the decentralised administration will come to ratify the public network will be preceded. This is all to adapt to the decisions of the Council of State for overall planning and not a fragmentary one. It is a significant section in which aerial photographs will be taken into account before 27 July 1977. I am quoting in parentheses: so far we have been talking about 1923. There were no routes for aerial photographs and contracts to prove the time to create a property, necessary for the excellence, but also for the building capacity of the fields outside the plan. With regard to electronic identity and the certificate of engineer, I have heard that we are suspending the electronic identity. I'm sorry. Since 1 February I have had the honour of signing the electronic identity and has been in force since then and until now and constantly. The function of e-identity has not ceased, because it has been said that e-identity is suspended. What did we do, though? In the process by means of the certificate in force for transfers prior to the application of the electronic identity, we have enabled the electronic identity and the validity of the certificate by the end of June to take place through two alternative routes, which everyone could choose, the certificate to carry out the transfer. For this certificate that was in place before ID and that works alongside the electronic identity, we gave and extended until the end of September. And to tell you that about six thousand applications have been submitted to the electronic identity. Of these three and a half thousand applications through electronic identity, they relate to transfers. Last week we had about two hundred and fifty applications every day through the e-mail for transfers, to get a picture. It is parallel, simultaneous operation until the electronic identity is stopped and only valid. I'm saying this so there won't be any misunderstandings. As far as Matti is concerned, I listen very carefully to the fact that we have been tragically delayed because we had said a year, gone second and added another one. Yes, sir. The first year concerned the special urban plan, which was delivered, but in order to be able to complete the special urban plan - I will answer and I will be very detailed, and I would like to hear after your replies - it is pilot and representative of the area in Matti, which we are building after a disaster and a tragic experience, where all of us stand with respect and for this reason we must not be divided by such events, instead of making us more wise and more effective to lift risks and speed up procedures. As far as the special urban plan is concerned, therefore, it has been submitted. Over four hundred letters, too many visits, teleconferences, meetings with representatives of operators, mayors, the whole of society, to achieve the best and safest for the region. It is an area that, as I said, has it all: Town plans, settlements, apart from plan, saints, archaeological sites, forest streams. He's got it all. It is small, but it is representative of the peculiarities it carries. And yet we are finished and the special town plan is already being put forward in the Council of State. That's the first phase. At the same time, at the moment we are talking about the second phase of planning, the urban implementation plan, i.e. the streamlined plan and the implementation instrument, is signed. And we are extending this until next year, a year, from 23 July 2021 to 23 July 2022. Watch out. Two design phases and the whole design were carried out in three years. I'm talking from 2019 to 2022. It has never been and will never be in the next few years. Both phases of planning took place in three years and, even, in such a region with these characteristics, and when an additional event has been involved, the suspension of forest maps, which for the first time, for the first time, has brought to the surface all the loose ends and wounds of the past, and we are obliged to do everything that is outstanding, wrong, omission, anything that has been in the past to regulate it safely and quickly. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I say again - it is our duty specifically in such circumstances, because I have heard complaints and accusations. I said respect for the different opinions, but it's not times when we should be on the edge. If it's worth it, we should go there. But for no reason, as with extremisms and complaints, we do not offer service. Society has huge problems and we have additional difficulties. It is the responsibility of all of us, uniting forces and making good decisions to escape these difficulties. However, we also have a few provisions, because they were mentioned before we served interests. It has been mentioned about traditional settlements, the outside of the plan, outside the building, the possibility of manufacturing and packaging facilities for local agricultural and livestock products, because there has been a problem and there are already companies operating to develop and promote local products and we are giving way. Is that a service of interest? On the other hand, with regard to the solution to a traffic problem in historic centres and town centres, we are solving problems until urban planning is changed. The example is Kavala and Corfu. Should they have been solved? The answer is 'yes'. ‘But there is a reality that we need to deal with, an existing problem, and we give the opportunity to, but at the same time ending, to develop the modification of urban planning. These are comments that are evolving and we are obliged to take action on this. I heard about building services. Indeed, there are problems and delays and a lack of staff, but also delays without a lack of staff. I would like to say to you - I will not go into detail today - that we are considering changes to this. This cannot continue and cannot continue with these delays, much more so that licences are issued electronically, much more so that the main weight is in the control of the topographical and cover diagram, because, otherwise, I am talking to pre-authorisation. Build permits are now granted and without all checks being required under the responsibility of the engineer. I am closing with these remarks. And you know me and everyone who knows me from the past that I am open to remarks and I am ready to correct if there are mistakes, as long as you make them to me and I am here to hear and correct them. In any case, however, neither the extreme voices nor the horizontal categories are helpful. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u290	Wait a minute, don't rush. I saw you all. Don't worry, you'll take the floor. First, Mrs Perka, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I would like to ask one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u292	Yes, but you're not a parliamentarian and I'm having trouble. I'm in all the good mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, the Minister said that he would be placed for an amendment and not put in place. Is that so hard?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u294	For the amendments, the Minister will inform us shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u295	Minister, on the amendment to Lindo in Heraklion you said you would say two words about it. You didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u296	For the amendment to Lindo in Heraklion, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u297	Yes, it is for the amendment on the adoption of special conditions for the refurbishment of the National Sport Centre in Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Mr Symphony. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u299	For this amendment, you are asking me for the maximum allowable coverage of 38%, for the building coefficient of 0.36 - because these are the percentages given - and the maximum allowable level of 12 metres and 2.30 distance for the other new buildings from the sides. What is the problem in terms of construction? It's 38% coverage, 0.36 construction factor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u300	Why are you doing this? That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u301	I'll tell you right away. We do so because the Heraklion Sports Centre should meet minimum standards so that it can operate in FIFA matches and UEFA, which currently does not meet any conditions and specifications. That's the main reason. We have done so - I want to remind you - and before for central fields here in Athens - AEK and Panathinaikos - but also in Thessaloniki - PAOK -, as well as in the country of Panatoli, where in order to adapt to requirements with minimum and minimum functions that meet the conditions of decent operation and representation in major sports matches, constructions of things and functions that do not exist are necessary. That's the target.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perka, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u303	Very few minutes I'm gonna need to explain a few things. Minister, if something we said, is that for a year and a half you had frozen a process initiated by the SYRIZA government and studies and finances to do what? Municipality planning to take him to municipality level - that's why your plan is ambitious, isn't it? - and beyond that, do what we call "saving" of the municipality, some privileged areas, that is to say, have planning, as they used to, who are in the plan, who are not. This is what you do, inconsistency and inequality within even the municipalities themselves. That's what we had commented on in your bill. I should also like to say that, at the time, special urban plans were normally served, which means in short words? That's why the financial players in the country always prefer them. It means that investment, activity predominates local planning, the needs of the municipality, the community, which is more democratic, more participatory and so on. Special town planning. You are updating this to every bill and with every amendment, unconnected. That's not planning. I told you before that you were building the building. Building has a regulatory character. Spatial planning is a spatial model of development, it's a strategic direction. We also said you did renames. The same goes for here. In what I told you about the streets, I said it to tell you this: Listen to us. In the bill on spatial planning, we were calling and saying how the permits would come out, since the S.H.I.E.L.D. case law. He has said that the mayor's decision is not enough to characterize the road. That's what I said in my place. Then you did what was fine. And you come here today - rightly, correctly in part - and you understood the problem, that although the arbitrary structure is quickly to be done, etc., but it cannot be cleared, it has paralysed the whole country. Why? Because there's S.H.E.'s case law. That was the criticism. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, I don't know if it's "head pains, cuts head," but when there are such construction services without mechanics, what are you looking for to fix them to work? I don't understand that. And, above all, you've never done a sample check. Some evidence will be requested on several occasions: what has happened, how long are licenses, how are they going? Nothing! It doesn't work that way. About Matty, you said you did fine. Firstly, we comment on these overlying statements that start by the Prime Minister and arrive at the last Minister - one said that in a week the Greek will end, the other said in a year that will end Matti - which means that I am ignorant of how the administration works, how the legislation is, what the necessary controls are. Don't make such statements! You said in a year, Matty, and now it says "building permit", that is, second and second phases... And I'll say it again: it's a disgrace to such an issue, which is at the centre of interest at the bottom, to put the TE to leave the role of the technical consultant of the state, a role that has been played over time and has written brilliant pages in his history, regardless of the government, and to make it a winner of a government, to be a contracting service and to share EUR 5 to 6 million - it's unacceptable what is being done! - without KYMIDIS, without entering any process. Why? If you want plenty of time, take your time, make your amendments here - you do not even listen to us - and let the process be done properly. That's what we said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Katrin from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your mixed style is inconsistent with the very - I would say - aggressive way, and I say this because we are all prepared to enter a debate on serious issues relating to urbanisation and many problems - you know them very well - which have emerged with forest maps. This is certainly not the way you choose, bringing provisions to nothing but one, without any debate, without any consultation. It is an issue that has been raised at the Ministry from all the wings and dozens of Members of Parliament and from your resignation. So you come here with individual amendments. In fact, here I read and an announcement from the Crete WID which disagrees - it has sent to Mr Skreka and Mr Amyras, it has not sent to you - and it says that you have not kept the promises. So you come and you surprise us. So it would be good to change your strategy a little bit and not tell us that because it is useful, it is right to bring to the rather than one amendment. In any case, we have tabled an amendment - signed by Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Arvanitides - on which neither by Mr Screka who spoke forty minutes nor by you who spoke for twenty minutes, we have heard your position. And it is a very serious issue concerning energy communities, energy democracy. We would therefore like - before the debate is concluded - to have at least your position. If you do understand the parliamentary procedure - which I am sure you and Mr Screkas also understand and treat you with due respect - you should at least reply to us if you think it is right and if you have the political will to accept it. Why you cannot say that we are solving problems with eighteen unrelated articles and bringing them to nothing but one. We therefore propose that problems be solved with an amendment and that you do not even respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, too. Mr. Tagaras has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u307	Mr Katrin, first of all I respect - and I respect you and you know - all of what you have said, agreeing on climate - because that is how I have moved along the way, in this climate you have described - and always moderately. Let me just say two words to Mrs. Perka. You asked if I knew the operation of the HIFs. Yeah, I know her. And what you see in front of us is all about the whole process and everything that is happening today in HYDROM. I know all the evidence. For example, I know that of some sixty - four - four HSROs operating, thirteen HSROs have an average time to issue a licence twenty days, forty - two HSROs have an average license time of fifty days, forty - four HSROs have an average time of seventy - five days, twenty - three hundred days and thirty - seven have more than a hundred days. And I know that 60% of these delays concern HYDROs, but there is also a 40% reduction for engineers. Because when remarks are sent, you know it's the engineer's responsibility to answer, the owner through the engineer. I also know that of the hundreds of sixty remnants of HFL that should work in the rest of the municipalities, all these years have been added six. I know, in other words, that this system cannot function as it is. That is why I told you that there would be changes, because one thing cannot be tolerated, that function will continue so. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will finish very quickly. As far as the formal part is concerned, because I have not read all the amendments, I have not even referred to the articles in the amendment. In the first concerning facilities, Article 1 is the court of Heraklion. Article 2 concerns FOSDA facilities in the Schisto area. Article 3 concerns - I will be concise because I did the analysis - it concerns tourist accommodation. Article 4, to which I have referred, concerns traditional settlements and off-site construction. Article 5 concerns the possibility of creating a roadway for land which they see in a public area in a green area. Article 6 refers - and I said it - to the possibility of using outdoor parking and concerned Kavala and Corfu. Article 7 concerns controlled development zones. Here, as far as the contribution to land and money is concerned, I am referring in detail. Article 8 refers to and clarifies errors which existed and impropers in Law 4759 concerning the first level of urban planning. Article 9 refers to the five per cent or five thousand in the issue of building permits and in the areas covered by Law 4759. Article 10 refers to different categories. In particular, and in order to avoid misunderstandings, in building, covering factors, heights and others for various uses and constructions. In Article 11, there are transitional provisions at various points and for pending plans and for general urban plans, as well as in relation to plans for a spatial open city settlement organisation. It also refers, of course, to the mathematical type of calculation for the residence in the small areas of derogations in the off-project construction. Article 12, to which I have referred, concerns the ratification of the public road network in the off-project construction. Article 13 relates to a procedure for the adoption of arrangements relating to town-building arrangements and to the KISOVA. Article 14 refers to the simultaneous approval...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u308	And that's what you're closing down with, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u309	I have finished, Mr President, and I apologise and thank you for your tolerance. Article 14 therefore refers to the simultaneous adoption of a specific urban plan and urban implementation plan. Thank you very much, as well as all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr. Tagaras. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to accept two parliamentary amendments. One is entitled: "Extending the time to submit supporting documents - Amendment to Article 68 of 4512/18" and No 986/80. I would also like to accept the parliamentary amendment entitled 'Transitional arrangement for the operation of the CTEO' and number 984/78. In addition, we will accept the amendment tabled by the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Placiotakis, under number 991/85 and the title: 'Authorisation of constructions and installations in land port'. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things about the ministerial amendment from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy that we tabled last night and it has to do with proposed provisions concerning the resolution of the property regime that I mentioned to you in areas where the ownership of the public is not presumed because of the forest nature of the area. In particular, the Ministerial Amendment No 994/88 contains six articles. The first, second and fifth articles concern property. The third article deals with speeding up the possibility of carrying out fire-intensive fire-intensive fire-intensive protection projects. Furthermore, Article 4 refers to permitted interventions in parks and inland waterways, and concerns the possibility of allowing works or activities that are absolutely necessary for the operation of parks or salts, such as the construction of works of general interest and including groundwater tanks, catering and recreational activities of a limited area, as well as the construction of small temples of well-known religions with a maximum area of 15 square meters that do not adversely affect their destination. Of course, we have Article 6, which deals with the possibility of transferring private parcels that do not border on each other, as well as the transfer of an indivisible share of private forests or forests without that being partitioned. This is a problem that has arisen with the suspension of forest maps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, too. And now we are coming back to the speakers, starting with Mrs Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy and the beautiful Achaia. We had a lady so long and wait! We're not ashamed! Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u313	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the waste is not waste. This is a plaque and an over-simplified wording, but I use it and I start with it because it expresses the essence of philosophy that needs to be developed around waste. It describes the attitude in which we must nurture the new generations so that they can become their property and lifestyle, the strong environmental consciousness. We must stop thinking that everything we don't need in the house, in the office, in the business, disappears in some magical way as soon as we throw it in the bin. We must immediately realize that if we do not manage all our waste properly, they never disappear and remain with us in public landfills, in improvised uncontrolled waste disposal sites and even worse in forests, rivers, in the sea, in the air that we breathe, even in our food. Burial should be the last solution, after all the possibilities that modern technology offers for reuse, conversion, repair, recycling, biodegradation or energy production are exhausted. For many years advanced countries around the world have invented and adopted dozens of technologies and good practices for the rational management of waste, based on the modern-day view that waste can be fuel, energy, raw material. And in this way we must manage them. At the same time in our country, the evidence is frustrating, as the Minister quite rightly said earlier, with landfill sites being saturated and in many cases being sanitary bombs for their place of establishment and others and not even settled. Unfortunately, the same is happening in Achaea, where with the frugality of the previous government and the inconsistency of local factors just a few months ago we managed to have the establishment of the solid waste management body. Not to tell you and remember what ailment the people of Aegialia have taken. As soon as we took over the rule, we even found this way to clean up Ayyalia from the garbage. The bill, therefore, which after a thorough consultation and debate we are holding in our hands, aims to address this regressive situation and speed up the rhythms of the Greek state in terms of recycling and the cyclical economy. It is another steady step towards the green transition, which is a central target and a pre-election commitment of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is a step in theory that sets clear and numerical objectives and specific time horizons to push, but also to motivate civil society, local authorities and public bodies themselves to move forward decisively and quickly towards the future. It is a bill with dozens of important interventions that promote recycling and the cyclical economy, regulate issues in the energy market and enhance the production of renewable energy sources, and introduce urban provisions that will boost green development. As far as the first part of the bill is concerned, I should like to focus on two innovations which it introduces: the centres of creative reuse of materials and the system of 'pay as far as I fly', which I consider accurately outline the rationale and direction of this legislation. Structures such as the JHA can very effectively promote waste prevention. Their practices have already been implemented informally and locally either by private and club initiatives or local authorities. Indicative actions are the processing of clothing, textile products, the dismantling of electrical appliances for the use of their materials and the reuse by processing of plastic or paper for other purposes. But it is at a pilot level and although inventive and innovative they cannot have the same critical size as they need to make a difference. The institutional functioning of the JHA and its inclusion in the municipalities therefore offers this necessary organisation and dynamic to reuse one of the main prevention measures to reduce the volume of waste. At the same time, it will strengthen the concepts of recycling and the cyclical economy in the consciousness of active citizens. The implementation of "pay as far as I fly" is correspondingly characteristic of the new philosophy that we are trying to shape, a philosophy of co-responsibility and cooperation between the state and citizen, a system that gives responsibility, but also incentives to the citizen for more recycling and reuse. By increasing screening at source and reducing the volume of landfill facilitates municipal authorities and dismantles local landfill sites. Together with the extension and modernisation of the landfill fee, the disposable bottle refund system and the rest of the regulation grid, a coherent legislative framework is in place to prevent waste production, increase recycling and reduce landfilling. It's at least strange how all of you, who have been bragging for years that you've been environmentally sensitive to the sensitivest, are against such a bill. How can you once again leave your party predisposition for sterile refusal to keep you away from progress and innovation? Obviously your party consciousness is stronger than environmental. And for that choice you will be judged. The bill also contributes to our strategic objective of boosting RES production and achieving the objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan for the year 2030. In a country that is blessed with an unstable sun and wind we must set ambitious targets for diversification of the energy mix. That is why we are forming a step forward - step by step - the framework that will allow for ever greater penetration of RES, as well as better monitoring and supervision of markets. Finally, with the urban and spatial reforms of the bill, we are giving impetus to green development, as we are completing the legislative framework that will allow us, through local town planning, to prevent the outside construction of a plan to protect the natural environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the sustainable use of resources, sustainable development, energy upgrades are not technical, general and descriptive definitions. It is essential policies that we must implement immediately to ensure Greece's stable future for the next generations. It is a feature of our intentions that one-third of the resources from the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "ELLADA 2.0" is directed towards the green transition. In this direction we must prepare the country, just as we do with this bill, which I urge you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. We remain in New Democracy and continue with Mr. Georgios Kotrias from Fthiotida with her Parnassus! Mr. Kotraya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, we kept a minute's silence in honor of the heroes who forty-seven years ago gave their youth to defend the betrayed Cyprus. With this honourable silence we were no doubt shouting that we did not forget and that we would fight until the final justice. With today's bill we are giving a different, a critical battle, a fight for the environment, a battle with the time that is getting short of it, because, as President Obama said, our generation is the first to face climate change, but at the same time it is the last generation to stir it up. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a complete structured action plan to resolve environmental issues of major importance, which must be addressed directly and overall. With the incorporation of Directives 851/2018 and 852/2018 of the European Parliament, the bill follows European standards by promoting the circular economy and recycling. At the same time, in the context of sustainable development, it focuses on the resolution of urban and energy issues, firstly, through provisions on spatial planning and urban planning which promote green development, secondly, through arrangements to strengthen the production of RES and, thirdly, with provisions for better functioning of the energy market in the country. A key innovation of this is the fact that it improves the institutional framework for actively involving local government and all citizens in the process of reducing waste through recycling. It is known that the main axes to achieve optimal waste management are the prevention of their production, increased recycling and reduction of landfill. In our country for many reasons, which is not here to develop, there has been a tragic delay in the implementation of European laws and waste treatment directives, with their burial still being the dominant management option of 80%, with time-consuming governmental responsibilities in particular, as well as the local government that kept putting the problem under the carpet. The great challenge to which this bill is always the reversal of the existing situation, adopting the ambitious goal of making the landfill the last option, in which it does not exceed 10% by the year 2030, after which the National Waste Management Plan 2020-2030 provides, and always only after appropriate waste pre-treatment. In the context of the attempt to reduce the impact of disposable plastic products, the arrangements in Part Five of this Legislation amend the provisions of Law 4736/2020 so as to be more compatible with the functioning of the modern single market. The planned environmental contribution is now to be attributed to the EEAN instead of the Green Fund, and it is specified that this revenue will be made available to finance actions to reduce the impact of plastic products on the environment, such as for the financing of disposable plastic production companies to redirect their production to other products. In the sixth part of the bill focuses on the operation of OFYPEKA and forest legislation for electricity distribution networks. It is intended to simplify the procedure for substituting air electricity distribution networks specifically through forest areas. After the extensive power outages that occurred this year in the severe weather of winter, due to falling trees in the airspace, but also to the fires created by contacting air cables with trees, when there are strong winds or after lightning falls, I think it is unnecessary to highlight the benefits of this action to ensure the distribution of electricity, but also the safety of forests from fires. I am one of those who have always expressed their conviction that subordination of electricity networks will definitively solve the problems posed by crossing the air power lines through residential areas and, above all, through forest areas. It should be noted that grounding projects are built in parallel with the central, provincial or forest road network and do not cause an aesthetic deterioration of the landscape, but do not have any impact on the ecosystem. Also particularly important are the eighth part of the bill, which relates in general to the energy market. In particular, a number of issues are dealt with under the provisions, including: Firstly, it is facilitated to design the networks so that more RES stations can be implemented and connected in line with the European Union's energy policy, as well as the National Energy and Climate Plan. Secondly, the most effective corporate transformation of PPC S.A. is regulated. Thirdly, the annual allocation is set for the period 2021-2030 of the revenues from auctions of greenhouse gas emission allowances, so that now 60% of these are the resources of the Special Account of Renewable Energy Sources (RES), while part of them will be intended to support companies responsible for carbon dioxide emissions in order to carry out these energy saving projects or to carry out electricity promotion actions. Fourthly, the independence of the RAE and its supervisory role in energy markets is strengthened, with a view to transparency and healthy competition. Fifthly, it ensures that producers have sufficient time to carry out preliminary research and drilling for the development of geothermal plants. Sixth, the irreversible advances and interim payments relating to the Support and Development Programme for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in the Green Fund shall be fixed. Seven, once again the final bids concerning the connection of small hydroelectric power plants developed by the TAs are revived. Eighth, the newly created Electricity Department of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is able to become a management body for implementing actions. And finally, ninth, the problem of subscribing IPTO and its related companies is resolved in a manner similar to that of PPC SA. Ladies and gentlemen, as we can see, the extreme weather and natural disasters are increasingly affecting the planet. A few days ago tens of dead and thousands of missing persons were recorded by the catastrophic floods in the heart of Europe and, indeed, in countries with very good infrastructure. Climate change is now a direct threat to human survival within a safe and sustainable environment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few more seconds, Mr President. It is now clear that the time has come for both direct and coordinated actions, but also the time and for actions with a long-term plan for saving the environment. The bill puts us dynamically in dealing with the holistic problem with the participation and involvement of all of us today, for our country, for our planet, for our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr. Kotroya. Always kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u318	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u319	I would like to table some further legal corrections for Members' information, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u320	Of course, thank you. Mr Panagis Capatos has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Kefalonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day for Kefalonia and Ithaca and all the Ionian islands. Today we are taking the most important step to close a cycle of decades of suffering for Kefalonia and Ithaca. A timely demand of our island society comes close to his vindication with the ministerial amendment tabled by Minister Skrekas. I am a thirty-two-year lawyer in Kefalonia and have constantly faced one of the biggest problems in local society, the ownership of forest land in the Ionian Islands. Since the beginning of my term as a Member of Parliament in 2019 and with my fellow Members of the Ionian Islands of New Democracy, I have held dozens of meetings with ministers, Secretary-General, Secretary-General and service actors on this issue. What is the problem facing citizens? Those who owned forest or part of forest land are invited to prove ownership of their property against the public, which, as is well known, does not have the right to ownership of the Ionian islands. Citizens are always entitled to higher courts, but they are involved in long-term judicial adventures towards the public and the services which, in the sense of protecting the interests of the public, have always led to justice. The citizens are therefore faced with an inappropriate financial cost and a long-term suffering. Simple transfers are still delaying ten years, investments are being cancelled, land use is facing extreme distortion. This is immediately resolved with the amendment for those regions that have a real estate register. Those who own property rights before 2001 will safeguard their property and the public will no longer insult their ownership rights. Furthermore, under Article 6 of the amendment, the transfer of indivisible private forest shares is no longer considered to be partitioning. In this way, both transfers and the possibilities for exploiting citizens' property are facilitated. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a major development reform for Kefalonia and Ithaca, a reform that has not daring any government in the past. A solution runs through a problem that is a brake on every serious investment in Kefalonia, in all the Ionians, with the courts lasting seven and ten years. This issue, ladies and gentlemen, has been extremely difficult to resolve, because we have always been faced with the stubborn refusal of the administration and of the services to bring the practice of public administration into line with the decisions of the Ice Bay and of the Council of State which firmly deserve citizens. This has been the case for decades. It was a path filled with frustrations and refusal of self-evident. I would like, Minister, to make two comments on the relevant ministerial amendment. Firstly, at the end of paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the amendment, I believe that the right to ownership of land must be extended beyond the relevant census offices and the relevant mortgage offices in areas that do not operate in real estate offices. This is in order for all citizens to be treated equally because of the lack of integration so far, because otherwise the citizen who has been transferred to a mortgage office should be approached to the Forest Councils and troubled, even though he will have the prerequisite for today's regulation, namely a title that has been written before 2001 and is translated. Secondly, Article 5 of the amendment to remove the expression'sufficient evidence of the ownership of the Greek State' in respect of leasing, concession, other exploitation, exploitation and protection of land as public. This is because these acts are inconsistent rights and not emblems and cannot be opposed to rights of individuals. This is a proposed wording which will create more problems, if it remains, than it will solve. And these proposals, Mr Minister, have to do with the idea of the philosophy of the amendment you tabled, which is based on the following principles: We are reversing the presumption of ownership from the areas such as the Ionian Islands, Crete, the Dodecanese and the Cyclades. We are therefore reversing the presumption of ownership from the State and giving it to the private sector. It should therefore not only apply to the areas that have been landed, but also to the areas in the mortgagehouse. Otherwise, I think it will be an unequal treatment of the citizens in this regard until, of course, the treasury process is completed. I now come to the contents of the draft law and the new one. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of waste as a challenge, a challenge, but also an opportunity is increasingly employing the European Union as a whole today. With waste being considered - and rightly so - a source of pollution, the objective of the common European policy is not to limit it, but to convert them into a valuable source of material. It is only enough to say that in the European area it has been recorded that sixteen tons of material per person are used annually, of which only six tonnes are converted into waste. Of these 50% end up in dumps. In the latter many Member States - Member States of the Union - continue to support the management of their waste, with what this implies for the sustainability of the system. To this challenge, which is not only national, but a common European case, is responding to this project. With a clear and coherent, modern legislative framework for waste and recycling, on the one hand, and national legislation, on the other, two of the most important directives in the circular economy lay the foundations for a national policy that makes the waste management system innovative, but, above all, sustainable. With regard to the role of the State, its supervisory and control character in waste management, once again our commitment to an effective exercise of public administration - policy - is confirmed. What, then, are we doing practically with the draft law? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need about a minute. Thank you. First and foremost, we are promoting the reuse, one of the main prevention measures in the creation of waste, which establishes centres for the Creative Reuse of Materials in municipalities. These products are then classified and repaired in order to be reused. We are still setting the target of 30% reduction compared with 2022 of food waste in 2030. In this context, we encourage the donation and redistribution of food for consumption, while making it compulsory for a number of businesses to record over food surpluses systematically. A further intervention adopted under this Legislation concerns the promotion of repairs. Manufacturers or importers of furniture and electrical and electronic equipment shall obtain an obligation to inform the seller, informing them of the availability of the necessary spare parts and the period thereof, of such information being made available to the buyer. The same logic also requires the possibility of upgrading and updating software in order to remain operational. Finally, another objective set by the draft law we are discussing today is to discourage the destruction of a number of products. For textile products, electronics, household appliances or footwear which are not suitable for sale or use, a new logic of hierarchy is envisaged primarily through the donation of the products. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude my suggestion as I have started, asking you to vote in favour of a draft law confronting the burning problem of waste management at their core, which solves a decades-long pending for the Ionian Islands concerning the ownership of forest land. I am proud, as a member of Kefalonias and Ithacas, as a member of our National Representation, to help resolve the issue with my vote on today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Cappato.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u324	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u325	I would like to make one more parliamentary amendment to the effect that I will be accepting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u326	What amendment did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u327	A parliamentary amendment entitled 'Nurse for the creation of desalination facilities in the Aleppo region of the Municipality of Mandra - Idyllia', number 995/89. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u328	We're still in the New Democracy. We will go to Northern Greece and in particular to Mr Baraliakos Xenophonta, who has the floor. And then we go to the Webex, so Mrs. Airinopoulou can get ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the New Democracy Government since the first time in which the country's governance has been undertaken remains to develop and implement rapidly and efficiently a national strategic plan for the transition to green growth and the cyclical economy. With the European Union mapping the roadmap for the transition to the first climate neutral continent, already the Greek national energy plan, the so-called ESDP, has set even more ambitious targets than the European average for the next decade. In this bill Greece is aligned in a critical and neuro-algal sector to deal with climate change and reduce the environmental footprint with Community legislation and the consequences of the European Union for waste management. Important directives are incorporating into our national law, which now acquires a coherent, unified and holistic framework for waste prevention, with emphasis on increasing recycling, but also reducing landfilling. In this context, the citizens themselves have an important role to play, along with greater flexibility of local government for the management and recycling of urban waste and their packaging. The bases for the implementation of the ‘I pay as long as I fly’ system are set. This programme establishes the way in which municipalities can form their municipal fees depending on how much waste each citizen produces, but also how much of them recycles. The anachronistic method calculated on the basis of the square meters of each property is thus abolished. It is a project that has only pilot implementation and has been gradually starting with specific criteria since 2028 for all municipalities with more than twenty thousand inhabitants. Another way that places the individual responsibility of the citizen at the heart of the policy planned is the system of reimbursement for disposable bottles since 2023. In this way, just like plastic for aluminium or paper bottles, the citizen will be able to collect a financial fee when he returns them empty. This bill, however, ladies and gentlemen, also introduces regulations on the electricity market, with renewable sources front. It is now a national objective to increase significantly the penetration of RES by at least 35% by 2030, which even exceeds the European average, which is 32%. This transformation leads to a change in the energy mix of our country, with renewables being the head of the spear for the transition to the 'green' economy. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me another point on the provisions of the bill concerning the extension of the certificate of engineer in January 2021, without requiring building identity until September of this year. The Government shares the concerns raised by this reform in the real estate market and ensures the necessary transitional time for the smooth and orderly transition of all actors to the obligation to complete the electronic building. Next priority is the digitisation of the archives of the towns of the territory, a tool that we owe to the technical world of our country and will make it easier to carry out their work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise the unique opportunity presented in our country to take the lead in the coming years through national measures and policies on the energy chess board of the European Union and the Eastern Mediterranean with a multitude of presence, self-sufficiency and extroverted orientation, taking advantage of all its comparative advantages. The Government of New Democracy implements a large strategic plan in the field of energy, where with the contribution of the Recovery Fund it will be a catalyst to the development prospects of our country. Allow me at this point to make a brief reference to the excellent initiative taken jointly by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Culture to include Olympia, the mythical mountain of Pierre with international radiation, in the list of UNESCO's world heritage monuments. I would like to praise the leaderships of the two ministries for the start of work on the Olympus candidacy file, and I put all my powers to support and implement it. A timely and fair demand is being made and we are all ready for Pieria to support it in every way and through every instrument. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the importance of the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping that you approved a moment ago, Minister, on the licensing of construction and installations within the terrestrial port area. The definition of land use and the conditions for the construction of a port opens the way for the implementation of the development programme of the Port Pieria for the upgrading of the building infrastructure and the creation of a new building that will house at the port office at Katerini Beach. It will be a project with a strong development mark, which will give added value to the entire economic activity of the wider region. Another proposal is being implemented and I would like to thank the Ministry of Shipping for the cooperation and progress of these positive developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, too. Mrs. Avgerinopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece prevents Greece from recycled, Greece protects its natural resources for the next generations. Today the New Democracy Government brings before us a bill which is an important institutional instrument for waste management in our country. It for the first time unites the provisions on waste management with the recycling provisions in a single, coherent framework. It establishes new objectives and introduces new management standards. This draft law applies the principle faithfully to the hierarchy of waste management. It proposes the need to prevent their creation and strengthen recycling activities across the country, with a view to achieving the circular economy. The positive interventions of the bill are directed at all levels of governance, at national, regional and local level. These interventions are necessary to correct the painful effects of the act which the SYRIZA Government has shown in all previous years and which has completely failed to deal with the major problem of waste management in our country. Not only did SYRIZA achieve the goal of recycling, but SYRIZA stopped and the environmental infrastructure the New Democracy government had launched in previous years. The waste management plant in Elia, instead of starting its operation in 2015, starts operations just now, in the summer of 2021. Similarly, in Tripoli only yesterday, our Prime Minister Mr.Mitsotakis opened the largest project of PPP for the management of waste implemented in Greece today. For years the Peloponnese has waited for even a small project to be done on waste. As we mentioned Elias, I would particularly like to thank the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, as well as this bill, as with previous legislation, for the implementation of a new spatial planning plan, as well as the specific town planning projects throughout the country, including that of the Elias Prefecture, whose implementation will give new prospects to the coastal front and to the development of our entire prefecture. The proposal to design and implement a project specifically for Elias, in order to eliminate the existing regime of the residential control area that limited the sustainable development of our prefecture, was a proposal that I had also formally submitted, in September 2019, to our then State Secretary, Mr. Economou, which reflected a consistent demand from local society. Since then we have worked closely to launch this proposal. I warmly thank the leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy today, Mr Skreka, Mr Tagaras, Mr Bakoyannis, for the adoption of the new legislative and financial framework, which will enable us to carry out this very important work for our county, but also for the other regions of the country where these projects are to be implemented. On the main theme of the draft law, namely waste management, the draft law on the one hand transposes Union law into national law, on the other hand introduces innovative legislation, which give further impetus to the functioning of state mechanisms at even greater speed. Step by step we firmly achieve our environmental, energy and climate objectives, which are high. So it turns out in practice that with the Mitsotakis Government Greece participates not only as an equal but also as a leading member with the European Union in the institutions of global environmental governance. Greece sets high targets for the environment and for the climate and with legislation such as what we are discussing today, we are achieving them. Furthermore, I would like to place particular emphasis on the regulations on extended producer responsibility, particularly on the producer's extended responsibility programmes for new product categories, such as agricultural plastics. Ineffective management of agricultural plastics in the country so far is one of the most serious issues for the protection of the environment and public health created by unsustainable practices in agricultural production. The waste from agricultural plastics pollutes rural land with a risk of making this same unsuitable for cultivation, i.e. plasticizing, in other words, soil itself, pollutes the marine environment, endangers marine biodiversity and puts it into our food chain, within our dish, in the form of more microplastic wastes of agricultural plastics. It is therefore of particular importance to create a system for recycling agricultural plastics. Similarly, it is important to regulate the management of waste from pharmaceutical products intended for domestic consumption and other newly created ones with this draft law. Furthermore, the bill introduces a series of arrangements that will actually contribute to a substantial change, such as the upgrading of the electronic waste register, the creation of creative reuse centres, mobile green points, the regulation of excavation waste, construction and demolition, the upgrading of recyclable material sorting centres and new regulations on biowaste and compost. In particular, it is important to regulate the creation of a special space on each new building for the collection and storage of municipal waste with four separation currents. Similar regulations apply to several countries abroad, where within homes there is initial waste segregation, and this system operates perfectly. The 'pay' system, the burial fee, the widening of tax incentives for donations to encourage prevention and reuse will give further incentives to help adopt good waste management practices. Let us activate every creative power we have, both in the public and in the private sectors. Let us make use of all the financial resources we have, including the Recovery Fund, which under the plan "Greece 2.0" will make available about one third of its total budget for environmental projects. And above all, let us make use of the new technologies and the innovation that we Greeks have, and also of all the possibilities that this bill gives us to achieve our environmental objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u332	Thank you too, Mrs Agerinopoulou. Evangelos Apostlelos from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Because Mr Tagaras has also asked for proposals, he will have them and will deal with a major problem of the country at this time, the grazing areas. Mr Minister, you withdraw your amendment and we will immediately present ours to you. You are trying to solve a problem of recording these areas in the wrong way and, indeed, reaching ownership issues before the forest maps are completed. You have attempted, visiting islands and coastal areas, to solve the problem with the vulnerabilities. That's not good enough, Minister. And especially with the areas of Article 62 of Law 998/1979 - take care of it - you put two speeds on the grazing areas. This is the worst for local communities. It is very clear that Decision 1411 of the Council of State, which considered partial ratification illegal, because only such maps will exist to be examined by the Forest Ownership Councils in these regions. The first move that needs to be made immediately, especially in order not to lose much of the first-stage project, is to return the grassland to the posteriori stage, and only then must we start dealing with the other problems, first of all, with the characterisation of the grassland as forests. First of all, these areas, according to the interpretative circular of application of Law 998/79, the chief implementing law of the Constitution of 1975, consist of toothwormous, woody species, such as thyme, mosquito and other plants, as well as white-collar plants, as well as various vulnerabilities mainly emphasizing the islands. These areas had to be mapped and delivered for management and disposal by 1984, after the 1979 Act. However, with L.4280/2014, which you voted on, Mr.Tagaras, not only was this regulation abolished, but also amended Article 3 of Law 998/1979, stipulating that it is considered as forests and forest areas that any kind of hideous areas, toys, grassland, rocky outbursts and generally uncovered areas. Those provisions also cover declared refreshables or foresters and are managed by the forestry service. Watch out: Managed by the forest service. Of course, with Law No 46852020, Article 48, some areas have been removed, but above all the ones I have just mentioned, namely grassland, have been left. The problem became bigger with the Presidential Decree 32 of 2016 which characterised a grassland area on the plain and non-field according to the altitude and gradients of the soils. These criteria, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, have left room for interpretation of such problems, such as those observed by the partial ratification of the first forest maps on some Aegean islands and also in the coastal regions of our country. What does the solution to these problems require? It requires the withdrawal of Article 53 of Law No 4280/2014, which I have already told you, and the reintroduction of Article 3 of Law No 998 on the characterisation of grassland as forest land and the inclusion in the vegetation of all plants that constitute the grassland, namely those with low wood vegetation, which the European Commission has accepted for grazing land, so that we can overcome the great problem we have with the choices of livestock subsidies. In addition, the abolition of Presidential Decree 32 of 2016, which complicated the procedures for characterisation with additional information. Compliance with the decisions of the S.H.E., which were deemed to be illegal and unconstitutional basic procedures for drawing up the forest maps in the first phase. There will, of course, be another rejection of your own arrangements, because your advisers are not well aware of the case law of the S.H.I.E. And, of course, the mapping and delivery of grassland in agriculture for management and disposal of only agricultural and livestock land, as provided for in Article 74 of the implementing law of 1974 of Law 998/1979. The ownership status of these areas must not be directly addressed, i.e. before the forest maps are ratified. However, the government must first of all make it clear that it is not in its intention to abolish the fight in any way, of course, because that will then be the greatest reward for the violations of public property by the Greek State, the Greek State. There are many people who see behind ownership and change of use. We must not allow that. First come back to all the old and new maps at the posting stage, showing the image of the problems, but it is also the stage to be finalised, namely vegetation, and use, i.e. the activity to be carried out. Only then will the form include these areas in the vegetarians and the use that has been made so far will continue without any problem. With their delivery, however, the issues of ownership can only be approached in agriculture at the time, as they apply to rural areas, but only if this use is carried out in the international community. Just two words for the bill. It is the threat of the reasoned opinion of the European Commission that led to this bill. It is the worst thing for our country, how much more so when it is a bill that, not only finds counter-environmental options, but also undermines the entire waste management area and particularly recycling. So, at the RIS, we have proposals on the problems. If he wants to, accept them and discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, I would like to table another legislative improvement for Members' information. It's just two points.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Loading has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today brings a comprehensive framework through which issues relating to waste management, recycling and, in particular, environmental issues are regulated, with a view to modernising and adapting us to the modern requirements of the circular economy. This is, therefore, a national reform - I would say - a total of about one hundred and fifty articles, covering an extremely large proportion of the whole spectrum, in terms of the protection of the natural environment, but also bringing about equally important regulations, particularly in town and country planning issues, to which I shall address myself. What do we pursue with the arrangements of this bill? Firstly, prevention of waste production, reduction of the negative effects of production and of waste management, increased recycling and, of course, the promotion of green development. In particular, I would like to focus on a very important urban regulation of this bill, which will resolve dozens of issues, which the Cyclades Act, which I represent, in particular. I am referring to the amendment whereby architecture councils are defined as competent bodies to exercise competences of the Aegean SPCs. In other words, their role is widened and their role is strengthened. I had already stressed the need for this regulation from this point of view, and I am delighted to see that many important steps are being taken in this direction. So I should also like to pay tribute to this regulation in the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment. I would also like to refer to Amendment 994, in particular to Articles 1, 2 and 5, but also to Articles 6 thereof. Pursuant to Article 1 of that amendment, the property regime between the Greek public and private individuals is resolved in areas where the Greek State has no presumption of ownership, i.e. in the Cyclades. (d) paragraph 5 of Article 3 of Law 998/1979. The process of proving a right is deceived by the civil courts and our fellow citizens will no longer feel unfair and will not struggle to lose their property. Article 2 establishes four councils for the ownership of forests, forests and rocky areas, one of which has special competence in the Cyclades Region. These councils will be responsible for the recognition of the ownership of individuals on land on the basis of legal, translated acquisition titles, by 1 July 2001 at the latest. In the event that the right to ownership of a private person has been registered in the relevant property register, the Greek State will not raise a right to ownership. Thus, the Greek State will not be able to bring an action against decisions when it does not have titles of property. In addition, Article 5 has finally resolved the question of forest and grassland areas under Article 62 of Law 998/1979, since now those who claim the area are entitled to acquisition rights which have been drawn up by 1 July 2001. Furthermore, it is stipulated that the State will not exercise ownership rights over areas which have been registered in favour of individuals in the livestock books. Finally, Article 6 of this amendment resolves the question of mixed areas, which is very important, namely areas where one part of them has been classified as forest. This article gives the possibility of separating the forest from the rural area, which can now be freely transferred without it being regarded as part of a fragmentation. We therefore welcome this legislative initiative of the Ministry's leadership incorporating proposals that I myself had promoted since 2020. So all the properties of all Cycladic property are safeguarded, the risk of their loss is removed and their character is clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that protecting our natural environment and cultural heritage is a matter for all of us. We have a very important bill covering a wide range of environmental issues, strictens the existing legislative framework, but also promotes environmental protection, ecology and recycling. We must all be present and be involved. So I call on you to vote in favour of this bill, so that our country can take another step in the field of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr Loader, for keeping time. Mr. George Logiadis has the floor from Mera25 for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Today, once again, we are legislating within a constant range of draft laws which you bring to Parliament in the form of a fast track, just as the previous government of SYRIZA did. The draft law has already been published twice for consultation, but only half of it. The other half never put it in public consultation, in public debate. He posted himself with seventy articles, and today he has a hundred forty - eight. That's exactly how SYRIZA did. In 2017, SYRIZA brought a corresponding bill. The New Democracy voted against it then. Today, it's exactly the opposite. Finally, Greece sinks into the trash, being the last in recycling. The Minister said to our committee on 15 July 2021 that the burial of waste in our country, unfortunately, brings Greece a negative record. Almost 80% of the waste we produce is landfill, while the European average is about 20%. And who ruled all these decades, Minister? The New Democracy, the PASOK - Change Movement and finally SYRIZA. Mayor Varis, Voulas, Vouliagmenos as a general observation said that you leave the environmental and heavy economic issue to the municipalities and, obviously, to the citizens, because the bill now lacks measures and provisions to finance and strengthen the municipalities to meet the burden of carrying out their recycling. The bill is therefore characterized by a centralism. We are returning to a model that has failed in the past, which the municipality - garbageman simply pays. In addition to this, it is called upon to pay a great deal of burial fees, but also the fines for the country to the European Union, without having virtually any control over the design and management of the waste. As a result, ultimately, the failure to the very high targets adopted by the national plan for the European Directive 2018/851 on reuse and recycling will be the result. On the subject of the draft law on town and country planning, these were not consulted. We must also note that five months have not passed since the establishment of Law 4759/2020, which amended exactly the same arrangements. In very few months, we have again changed, and others have been involved. "With a multitude of legislations, with contradictory and conflicting arrangements, more problems will arise, instead of solving them," said the President of the Board of Directors of the Panhellenic Federation of Engineering Civilians. Furthermore, it referred to the incomplete staffing and operation of the construction services. Of the three hundred and thirty-two municipalities in the country that are obliged to operate on construction services, only sixty-eight are currently in operation, that is, half. Four of them are unpaid, and twenty-two are without a single engineer. The twenty-two of these services are just with an engineer. It is clear, therefore, that they cannot function with these shortcomings and carry out the complex and multi-teaching legislation they have to deal with. With regard to the energy part of the draft law, we in Mera25 oppose the sale of such a structure that has a social dimension. PPC's privatisation is a painful political decision against the interests of PPC and leads to a great disaster. The DEDEFOP has the ability to complete any project itself, provided it does not have party hug as a burden. This is our country's eternal problem over time. Depreciation, cutting and selling PPC are commemorative cheques from above and outside. We saw very recently, at the beginning of July this year, what happened with the successive holidays to electricity in the middle of summer at the flagship of Greek tourism in Crete. Compensation and shame, just to privatise the DEDDIE by means of a paragliding policy on the part of IPTO aimed at haggling at low-priced prices that will be transferred to the manager by PPC. And today the DEDDIE, of which 49% is for sale. Another key part of today's draft law is, in our opinion, promoting at all costs of waste incineration, even if it is translated into the destruction of huge quantities of recoverable materials, obsession with privatisation, centralisation in the operation of the management system and the launching of costs which citizens will be asked to pay. This is based on the pressure of cement plants to use all kinds of raw garbage as cheap fuel. Let's go back a few years on January 1, 2018. China then drastically reduced the imports of recyclable and solid waste exported mainly by the US, the United Kingdom, Germany and Mexico. Neighbourhood Turkey also introduces a very large share of plastic waste and is among the largest polluters of the seas with plastics. We understand the enormous dangers for Greece as well. Following the decision of China in 2018 not to import other waste, we find that ten recycling factories were burned in the last year, on 6 June 2019 in Crete, on 30 August 2019 in Preveza, on 14 October 2019 in Attica and on 19 March 2020 in Mandra Attica. Let us stress that the operation of recycling plants according to environmental legislation does not create major licensing requirements and companies are considered... (it was not heard because of a poor connection) and they are sufficient to comply with standard environmental commitments. It is questionable, however, whether they are subsequently controlled. Moreover, the storage and fire safety conditions are highly controversial. Fires have failed to comply with safety measures, dangerous storage of domestic waste next to industrial or other recyclable materials. As the Minister mentioned it to the committee, I will not list the thousands of tonnes of waste under the sun and 80 degrees Celsius, even at the peak of the tourist season. I would, however, like to remind you of the huge environmental bomb that has been the thirty-five shells of ships under the sea and threaten the Argosaronikos, but also many other shipwrecks such as SEA DIAMOND in Santorini, the most tourist destination in Greece, or the one of SAMINA in Paros. All of this and much more are environmental time bombs ready to explode, with a lot of disastrous consequences. In conclusion, because the draft law also refers to hotels, I would like to stress that many of them have installed their own electrical production pair because there are very frequent and large power cuts, for example in Crete where energy is not enough and the network is outdated and devalued. They have their own biological cleansing, because the municipalities have not built them everywhere, even in busy tourist areas, for example in the Municipality of Hersonissos, in Gouves, but in many other places. They have installed their own reverse osmosis systems because the water provided by the municipalities is neither sufficient nor of good quality. In essence, therefore, they have substituted a fully non-existent and inefficient state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, too, for keeping time. We'll close with Mrs. Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mrs. Vetta, you have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is absolutely consistent... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.) I mean, big plans, communal... (It was not heard because of poor connections) at the same time that there are great delays, unauthorised oligories, interest services and a systematic violation of good legislature rules. To be more specific, the incorporation of the directives that are being voted on today too late could be a great opportunity for recycling in our country. However, the strategic legislation of the tripartite... (It has not been heard because of a bad connection) it legislates as has been said correctly, the country's transition to the cyclical economy and recycling, creating consequences that will be visible in the coming years. In particular, by promoting combustion as part of the implementation of the national plan you had secretly and without consultation last summer, you are completely removed from the logic of the waste management hierarchy. At the same time, today, thanks to your actions, the dominant direction is the auctioning of waste treatment plants producing secondary fuel, thus opening the way for combustion plants. SYRIZA has created a promoted framework for the management of waste with pillars of the eco-design of products, the incentive pricing policy, the separate collection of bio-waste and, finally, the separate collection in four currents, options that ensure the smooth, sustainable and rapid transition to a new regime. At the same time, in 2015 after consultation and hearing of the bodies, which the New Democracy did not do last year, it submitted a national waste management plan to achieve the objectives of Law 4042 that harmonized the country with the European Waste Directive. Also, SYRIZA validated the national plan for the management of hazardous waste, thus preventing the 3,000 euro penalty on the day the country was paying until then. It established the national strategy for the circular economy. He closed the majority of the illegal landfills. It put an environmental end to the plastic bag with an unprecedented decrease in consumption of 80%. In addition, a financial instrument of EUR 1 billion was launched for the implementation of national and regional waste management plans. Today, you legislate on this framework, while calling on OTAs, without recycling equipment and a separate collection, to implement the new plan with the threat of new fines to hold over the country, as mayors themselves say. This is the reality of today's bill: Granting to individuals, graceful urban regulations, extensions and collusion of heirous provisions for a number of sectors. Before I move on to individual points, I would like to reiterate my call from both the relevant bodies and the citizens of the Kozani Regional Unit to be vigilant about the possible implementation of an Amiantou landfill site at the premises of the former MABE. The government, as we know, is trying to impose a project without scientific documentation, environmental security, social consensus and a reasonable reward. I'll say it from Stepma to be clear. The people of the region will not allow Western Macedonia to be transformed into an uncontrolled dump in the country! I continue with another problematic point in the bill on the late establishment of a market monitoring and surveillance mechanism by the RAE. SYRIZA has pointed out the shamefulness of the abolition last year... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). The fact that it ensured huge profits for suppliers and the possibility of bids that distorted competition. The mechanism introduced comes too late... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). After summer, households or businesses will see, thanks to the clauses for adjusting their accounts, large increases and then, of course,... (it was not heard because of a bad connection) from 15% to 20%. So here we have delayed reflexes and incompetence. I would also like to dwell on Article 137 because it is a typical example of your contradictory policy on the issue of RES, as you are again attempting to deal with the attempts of your inappropriate and dangerous initiatives in this area. You plan to present a guarantee letter for a producer attestation of EUR 35,000 per megawatt and to amend Law 46852020 which created an "EL DORADO" throughout my country, but especially in my region, western Macedonia, where they emerge in each "investors" region. Even worse, while you anticipate various exceptions to this provision, you do not include in these energy communities another demonstration of the responsibilities you place in... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). The absence of a special spatial plan has created an unprecedented demand for RES investments, many of which are thanks to the unregulated development that you have allowed are carried out on forest land or on pastures with indifference to the region's geomorphology, agri-food needs and other productive activities. The conclusion is one: in western Macedonia you have managed to create a negative RES movement, which is extremely problematic for moving to a new energy regime. In conclusion, I should like to point out that the green transition must be fair, balanced and ensure a high level of life for the inhabitants of Greece and especially western Macedonia, which has given so much to PPC for energy. In order to achieve this objective, all citizens must feel active and involved, especially those who are active through energy communities. However, the opposite is true. As we are aware - and this is why a parliamentary question has been tabled - the TEDO rejects the small photovoltaics submitted to the area, saying that there is no availability on the network, which needs to be upgraded further and, of course, the TEDO which you are privatised by, a natural monopoly. At the same time, the information indicates that the large companies in the area expect that they will be sure of joining the network. Instead of strengthening the Ministry and giving priority approval to projects, for example, photovoltaics for agricultural use or energy communities, it is rushing to meet the requirements of large companies. And here, then, we are in favour of the two sides of industry. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Environment and Energy with its legislative initiatives for two years has shown that it is interested in serving the great private interests, without regard to the needs of the majority of citizens. It is a primary responsibility that this course should also be interrupted with social and political alliances, with uninterrupted struggle in all the fields of action. Only in this way will we achieve a fair, green and sustainable future. In the end, despite the efforts of the government, we deserve it and we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Vetta. We'll go for a walk to the rapporteurs, to those who want to talk. I'm guessing Mr. Famelos doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u343	Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u344	Let's go. I will begin first by Mr Synthraki, the rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u345	I would remind you that at the beginning of plenary there was agreement with the 1st Vice-President to give more time to dentistry and because of the amendments, but also because of the scope of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u346	You've brought me an event that's a fait accompli. Is a five-minute okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u347	In conclusion, Mr President, as long as the aim ink is well-pretented and if the government is to attack the government, it cannot hide the main, that it plays the role of the State of monopolistic groups in the management of waste and renewable energy sources. It seeks to allocate the waste management to groups of companies by fire and iron, it facilitates the licensing of renewable energy generation projects in the context of energy liberation, thereby speeding up profitable investments which, of course, lead to the environmental destruction of the mountains, to a huge burden on the people, as well as to urban and spatial issues on the basis of the class interests of urban order. And at the level of land planning it extends the right to invest privately-growers, airports, ports, motorways, dams etc. - while the opposite happens with the popular layers when it comes to rural land, forest land, a school roof and it goes on to say. And, of course, how could the government cover up this whole package of anti-popular and pro-monopoly measures they take? It's SYRIZA and SYRIZA offering the way, the method. How does this method offer it? It's what we say: Two donkeys were fighting in a foreign barn. Despite SYRIZA's efforts to denounce the New Democracy and to appear as a protector of the environment, one thing is certain that the current New Democracy's policy is the continuation of SYRIZA's policy. They have strategic alignment. They're moving on the same tracks. And you know the ability to disagree or leave voting while you agree is art, it's a very important art, and that can only be done by SYRIZA. And while they are supposed to disagree, at the same time SYRIZA and New Democracy go hand in hand in supporting this Euro-Union 'polluter pays' principle, i.e. the immunity of capital to pollute. They agree with the public-private partnerships. They agree with the carcinogenic incineration of waste in industry. Have we forgotten about the works and the days of SYRIZA, on which the New Democracy stands today to move forward? We are transporting new environmental rafts on the workers' backs, more and more weights. And let Mrs Pipili wonder, laughing because the JRC is constantly raising this issue, that in these circumstances, the people are even more delighted. Okay, there's no answer. I think that's how it cuts. So they both fight to convince the working class, the populace layers that they should wake up and sleep with green dreams before us. The same, of course, you did here today with the class choice of legislating by the New Democracy of the minimum import base, a real slaughterhouse for youth. At the same time, when Mr. Tsipras was fighting the Minister of Education for the shamefully minimal basis of introduction, which, first as a JRC, we denounced, condemned and voted against, Mr. Friend in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, in the debate on the new draft law today, a bill of categorisation and differentiation of school units and the intensity of class barriers, defended the decentralisation of the school and the need for school to be democratic and autonomous, that is, what the New Democracy bill introduces, the autonomy of the school. The decentralised school is competitive school, the autonomous school, without a single structure, without a single operation, without a single programme, without State funding being guaranteed, i.e. the market school. So New Democracy, Mrs Kerameau, the minimum import base is a prisoner. It's them. It's a party authentic in the bourgeoisie. She cannot forget herself and, on the other hand, we have the demagogy of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras that has taken off literally and to such an extent, in order to get the capitals from New Democracy. While accusing Mrs. Kerameou for a dealer in private colleges and IEKs, at the same time he runs to give his credentials to the schoolmasters - we heard him - saying we don't have anything with colleges, we have a problem with Mitsotakis and Kerameo who drives thousands of students there. Do you know what SYRIZA reminds me of? It reminds me of the Caribbean iguanas which thus change colors according to the time, weather and dangers that threaten them. In other words, for colleges with SYRIZA and against colleges when the New Democracy is. So we have left colleges, and we have right colleges. Just in the same subtle way, SYRIZA is trying to hide his position in his agreement with New Democracy on the European Union's strategy, this pro-monopoly green transition. The problem - Mr Tsipras told us here - is not - says - the green transition, but the New Democracy that defames it and at risk - says - that people should reject it. Well, what anguish this is about whether to reject or whether the people will accept the green transition! Here we have left green capitalist development and right green capitalist development, that is to say, 'other words to be loved'. Demagogy and demagogicism, really science. We are talking about total falsehood, absolute hypocrisy. You all support the promotion of capitalist development, the acceleration of investment, the rapid development of monopolistic groups in waste, renewable energy sources, tourism, construction, infrastructure, housing, the environment and quality of life. This is also requested by the Association of Greek Industrialists, which indicates to the Government the faster environmental licensing for more investment. Transit for the peoples. We've said it. You may close your ears to what we say about the radically different development path where the criterion of social production will be the widening satisfaction of people's needs. It is the road to social property and the central planning of production. It's the way of popular power. Only this framework can take into account the real impact of any activity on the environment and the overall needs of the people. To conclude, Mr President, on the amendments, we condemned this usual practice, misguided practice, to table amendments - bills at the last minute and with the commitment to vote even single - we are talking about amendments now that we have ten, fifteen articles - even if one can agree with some or some articles or wish to say 'no'. Of course, SYRIZA did the same with the Memorandum and without the Memorandum, the PASOK, etc. It's a common practice. First of all, let us say about the ministerial amendments that we are voting against as a whole. As regards the amendment, with a general number 993 and a special 87, concerning the specific conditions for the formation and renewal of the National Sport Centre in Heraklion, do you know what is strange to us? That while there are no sports spaces at the same time, I don't know if there is a license - it's outside the city plan - at the National Sports Center and it's a matter of how many years it operated a sports centre without permission, in any case, the question is: Before you move on to changing the special conditions, should the government not make sure that it meets all the sports needs, make it more operational, cover all the children who need to go to sport? And yet, it does not, and at the same time we want to have the UEFA and so on. and for international sports matches. The second - and I conclude with this - relates to Article 2 of the same Ministerial Amendment concerning the installation and treatment of municipal waste. It's about Schisto. And you know, the case of Schistos has entered the eye of monopolistic groups. This is where you're not going to do a waste treatment facility. Here you go make a complete waste management facility. It is well known OED, where apart from being with a public-private partnership and being located in a protection zone, the carcinogen RDF will also be produced. In practice, a second Library is being prepared in Athens, Attica. That's what you're doing! And you're bringing it up with an amendment, so you're not going to get any ham! And we say that with absolute confidence. Don't ask us where we know, because there's a suggestion to the regional council. That, Mr President, and - we have said this - we are voting against the principle, on the articles and on the whole, as well as on the legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. Mr. George Arvanitides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. After ten to eleven hours of procedure, we are proving that such a draft law containing European directives, urban regulations, energy regulations, cannot be discussed in this way on environmental issues. Minister, you were gone when I arrived. You know how I appreciate your face and Mr. Tagaras, but I think you have won a candidate for the Oscar of poor legalization and handling of settlements in your attempt to legislate. I must refer to the amendments you have tabled. My opinion on issues as a whole has been developed in my prototype. Let me begin, therefore, by Amendment 991 by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, which amends Article 137 of Law No 4759/20 - your own law - to allow for building buildings, even under contractual conditions, within the port area with favourable conditions of construction up to the future definition of land use and the conditions of construction of port, and this is not permitted today, namely, the construction of conventional buildings, but only temporary structures. The Government has delayed issuing the conditions for the construction and use of ports laid down by the law it brought in 2020. In view of the protection of the environment and taking into account, firstly, that the Government could immediately study, consult and issue land use and building conditions in ports and, secondly, that this provision is not justified in all cases of the buildings mentioned therein, we will vote against this amendment. With regard to Amendment 993, this is an amendment with fourteen articles. You filed her yesterday at 9.15 p.m. We received knowledge at 10:30. It has very important topics and responsibilities of many ministries which, in our view, should not only be consulted, but which should be processed by the committee responsible. On the other hand, Mr Minister, you have made no reference to these matters in committee. We have repeatedly asked you the questions, what amendments you will be bringing. How can we characterize that? Because Mr. Tagaras, in his position, raised issues that we don't understand how you legislate when you don't know how to criticize, how to put yourself in matters. There are, of course, positive provisions in this amendment, such as Article 1 on special conditions for the establishment and renewal of the National Sports Centre of Heraklion, Article 3 on tourist accommodation that improves their conditions of construction, Article 4 on the packaging and processing of agricultural livestock products in the Pelion region, Article 7 on the controlled development zones, and some of the arrangements in Article 11 which includes a provision which I with Mr Kegeroglou had indicated in the bill on land planning in December 2020 on approvals, prior approvals for building permits and building permits in order to be adopted under the conditions of construction that were in place before the adoption of Law 4759. And then you hadn't heard of us. It took seven months to understand what we had identified in one day and obviously now you are coming to fix it. However, the rest of the arrangements we consider to be a day-to-day arrangement. And our main disagreement is that once again - unfortunately with the tolerance of the Bureau - Parliament's Rules of Procedure and despite our proposals to the President of Parliament that separate articles on the amendments should be voted on, let alone when they regulate such serious matters regardless of each other. For these reasons, we choose to abstain from voting on this amendment. Finally, Amendment 994 was also tabled in the same way. It regulates such important issues that need to be consulted. You promised the CCTB in Crete. He already has a communication today, which makes strong criticism of the fact that you were committed to the fact that there will be consultation and that has not been done, as it should also be checked by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. We believe that, unfortunately, it moves to the line of constitutionality, so we will abstain from voting on this amendment. Of course, we will be voting on the amendments, 984 concerning the CTEO and 995 on desalination. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, too. Mr Socrates Famelos from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is 12 hours since our first speech and unfortunately within these 12 hours a lot of negative has happened in our country. I cannot help talking about the negative record of cases today. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in mid-April we are turning to the negative record, which is tragic and shows inefficiency, but also errors and the need to protect our society more. But, Mr President, since our place unites us, I can only refer to the negative news that has been released and which I consider to be tragic if it is true that the destruction of the Byzantine history of Thessaloniki began at the Venizelos station at the metro stop. If that is the case, the government makes a disastrous mistake, is faced with the history and heritage of the city and contrary to the vast majority of citizens. Minister, I do not know if you can intervene. I think you have this opportunity in the Ministerial Council. I am also making this appeal here. As members of the Greek society, we must not allow this to happen in our history. As far as the issues we are discussing are concerned, I shall also refer to the bill and the amendments, Mr President, which we discussed this morning - because very big amendments came last night. First of all, we must restore the truth about waste management, because things here are literally out of step with what we have heard not only for reasons of political history, but also for reasons of consistency and rationality and scientificity. Where was Greece in 2015? We'll tell you where he was, because I guess, Minister, you don't know them. Greece in 2015 was sentenced for over three hundred uncontrolled waste disposal sites that Samara - Venizelos, the Minister of State, was inherited along with the Memorandum. For three hundred spaces with a fine of EUR 14.5 million per se! Keep them, because they've all been covered by the SYRIZA government. 82.5% of SYRIZA was closed by the government of SYRIZA. Secondly, did he have secured projects and funding? But, really, what government were you, Mr. Screka? Because I remember you were in government too. The institutions had a place in all the funding, because we had no plans and all the plans had to be changed, both national and regional. The PPP projects were over-dimensioned and contrary to Directive 2008/98, as it referred to the total waste production with excessive prediction of increases and should only be in 50% of waste production. And you clearly had nothing to do with the recycling initiatives of Europe nor with the strategic circular economy. Not to remember the garbage in the Tower that surpassed the first floor of the apartments and the apartments. What works were enrolled? Probably enrolled four, five PPPs, because you obviously wanted to settle and too many contracts. Let's see what happened on SYRIZA. National planning the first year with two sessions of the Parliament. Prevention plan for the first year, regional plans were carried out throughout Greece in the second year. You have closed the second year and you have not yet made regional plans. Projects have started with a case. Is that right, Mr. Grafaco? You are making projects in Attica that will be done in the future when the designs are made. That is a European regularity! There was also a plan for hazardous waste. By SYRIZA! Cyclic economy strategy. By SYRIZA! Close HSD. By SYRIZA! Price policy with a ministerial implementation decision in 1920 to be applied 1-1-2020. You didn't apply it! Circular economy contribution. From SYRIZA also, in 2018! Set up for the plastic bag. Also from SYRIZA! Four current and bio-wastes in the institutional framework. Also, by the SYRIZA government! Specifications for green points. Also, SYRIZA's government! Electronic waste register and combating tax evasion. And I'm telling you, because you were asking what we were doing about the tax evasion. I told you! Furthermore, projects of EUR 1 billion have been made, public funding. Mr Giannoulis, Mr Mamoulakis and Mrs Gara said the works of their regions. Not all of this has changed. Only about two PPP projects have you accomplished. The rest of the mayors who were also supported by New Democracy, and in your prefecture if I'm not mistaken, SYRIZA's public works are implementing our strategy. What have you guys done? Remove the circular economy levy and bring the burial tax. However, the contribution of a circular economy was turning to the municipalities, while you want to probably pass through the laundry or something, I don't know which tool, we'll see. Also, you do not aim to reduce the landfill tax that was the contribution of a circular economy on the basis of the projects. So either the municipality does or does not do round-up projects, pays them. All right, all this to the mayors. Of course, the money doesn't go to the green fund or to the municipalities. To understand, in the EEW you have even stopped studying the qualitative and quantitative characteristics of the waste. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Really, how are you gonna plan? You won't even have data! Is that your modernisation? But you don't even know about scientific issues? Of course the EEAN is frozen and 20 million euros for the plastic bag. It is frozen 20m euros from the Mitsotakis Government! You have completely confused the issues of combustion and secondary waste. Let's get something straight. Your choice appeared when in the national planning you set a special provision for combustion plants that were not provided for in our design and at the same time for the Ministry's competence in the combustion plants. So you took them from the municipalities. In fact, by your own intervention, you made specifications for waste treatment plants, not to become circular economy units, but to produce fuel. This is the New Democracy, this is the change of strategy you have made! While we, because the 2014 plants had been licensed in the cement industry to use alternative fuels, tightened the specifications, tightened the specifications, made the raw material more strict, performed further analyses, mandatory transparency and transparency in the analyses and measurements and social consultation on licensing, which you have not been applying for two years either to Thessaloniki at TITAN nor to "AGET" to Volos. That is what we have done, legislation more stringent than Europe, and you backwards. Of course, this is the New Democracy! As far as Corfu is concerned, don't listen to jokes! In Corfu for two years because of the Mitsotakis Government there have been three projects of the MAGP, one for recycling, one for paper and one for biowaste not implemented under your political responsibility. There is an institutional problem in FODSA. What kind of innovation are you talking about? You've done a VETSA, for which the Ministry of Interior says he's illegal, that he's having serious share capital and representation problems. At the same time, you have mocked local society, because now you have conflicts between the three municipalities, opposition from the central municipality to the region, and the state does not ultimately pay for transport, as the Secretary-General had falsely promised in the local society. And one-third of the waste, he says, is being transported, the other two-thirds stays there, and we have eighty-three thousand packages in Templelon. Bravo! I wonder what you have solved in Corfu! As far as the regulatory authority is concerned - and I am ending with this, Mr President, with the bill - let us be serious. You said, Mr. Minister, that you're going to have EOAN regulator? Ask your advisers and colleagues a bit: Is there a regulatory authority in Europe that is part of the management? Please, Minister! Have you carried the bag tax to the EEAN, will you also carry the burial tax and the regulator will manage resources? In which economy and state of Europe is the managing authority managing funding and projects? Where's her independence? Don't tell the Europeans. You're going to expose us, Mr. Screka! You'd better make the Ministry of the Environment stronger, which you're constantly deceiving! Because if you were to ask us, we would tell you that you obviously have to send the Ministry of the Environment, bring officials to the Solid Waste Department, in order to implement all of this, and not set up arrangements so that they can come to work for private people in the EEAN. Because that's what you're actually doing! Mr President, I put forward three documents showing where we are today. First. A document from the Association of Greek Warsmen and Spatialists, which reads as follows: SEPTECH calls for the withdrawal of Parts VI and Z of the bill, as well as of the proposed amendments, because we see that it is cancelled in Greece, as they say, spatial and environmental planning and subject to opaque interests. It's fresh, I don't know if you've seen it, I'll testify to you. Two. Current publication of ‘CATTERIN’ entitled ‘Contributor-RAE Contracts for Power Restraint Measures’. So "KATHMERINI", says that since last May, consumers' first reactions to inflated accounts have been manifested. And I say it because you said that consumers had not reacted. He also says the Minister asked for speculation and abusive behaviour to be investigated. So you say it, you admit our criticism. And the third document I submit is again from "KATHMERINI" and is entitled "Resignations with tips for ropes". The administration of the body has resigned, because it is simply a violation of the legislation, and the forest and the natural environment, for the protected forest of Koukounaria. I have all three documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we're going to the amendments to close my place. The government late last night tabled three amendments. We talked about the Ministry of Shipping earlier. I intervened with Mr. Plackotakis. As far as the two amendments on urban and forestry regulations are concerned, they are very serious. Even now, Minister, we ask you to withdraw them to save your credibility, parliamentary function and parliamentary time. We waited and asked you on the first day - we were consistent - in committee, if there would be an amendment on the transfer of the fixed assets between IPTO and DEDDIE to Crete. You are interested too, because because of this negligence, a project that is really innovative, which is SYRIZA project, the Peloponnese - Crete interconnection, could not be activated and put into operation, while it had been electricityed, if I am not mistaken, since the beginning of the year, for six months. And you didn't bring it even though we opened it to the committees. You said that you would bring an energy amendment and bring us forest and town planning. But that's not what you're bringing. This proves that the Ministry of the Environment remains in a very high demand period in Crete, with tourism and with heat and while there was a failure in the unit, if I am not mistaken, in Chania. So that's our difference. SYRIZA proceeded with an innovative project, invited it and built it in a record time, and you can't even go through an institutional arrangement to get into operation. Instead, we have two amendments. Firstly, in the amendment to the non-building plan, Mr President, it says that it deals with issues that had not been dealt with. And I wonder: But six months ago you didn't make the law of spatial planning? Do you admit in the recital that you did not have any problems to deal with? I guess that's what's happening. So Mr. Economou and Mr. Hatzidakis didn't deal with it. In the same provisions - Mr Tagaras will know this a little better - it is said that there is a problem with building permits, road ratification and planning. And who created him? Your previous colleagues who made the December legislation or the March amendments? Well, somebody created it. The New Democracy Government for sure. You say that you are amending - again in the provision - in the light of the interests of engineers, owners and construction services - which you have ignored, of course, because there has been no consultation anywhere - but you write that this also concerns investors who have put pressure on you to make these arrangements. You change the way in which property is rendered on forest land, on the presumption of ownership of the public, on the promotion of property rights, on works of non-authorisation, on construction in parks and algae, and too many regulations, which, if you like, are intruded between constitutionality and "cheap". However, none of these are serious rules, because first of all you have not brought them into discussion, Minister, and that is an offense. You did not discuss this with the operators, they do not fulfil the commitments you have announced on forest maps, major legislative interventions, and today Greece does not have forest maps signed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. That's what we know. And you haven't come here yet to talk about it. The issue of forest land and property is indeed important and we are interested. Many of the arrangements we would discuss. You did not give us that opportunity. You didn't even explain to us in plenary. That's a serious problem, apart from what we found in here. Many Presidential Decrees are amended. But can you come to the House with amendment and amend presiding decrees insulting the Council of State? I come to the spatial planning amendment with titles. In Article 4 we would also see a debate on the unit of agricultural and livestock products in the Pelion region. With regard to Article 1, have you heard what Mr Mamulakis said about the ignorance of the municipality and the conflict with neighbouring Panghretio? Do you have an answer to all this? Article 5: Let Mr. Tagaras say at least now. We see a photographic arrangement for an olive grove. Will you tell us what work it is? At least we should know that. In 5.2, be careful - declassifies the land of high productivity in the perimeter of urban projects. Aren't you the ones who came here and told us you'd limit, not to say, the off-site construction? And now you come and say that outside town planning, the land of high productivity is being cancelled and construction and uses released. Are you serious? You are doing exactly the opposite of what you said here in December. You are saying in Article 8 that a phrase is deleted from your own law because you have been privatized. May I read to you, Mr President, what phrase are they deleted? They shall delete the words ‘incentives for the collection of environmentally-friendly activities on organised receptors’. They're erasing it. In other words, there is no incentive for organising enclosures, that is, organised areas, industry, for example. They're erasing it. Is this modernising spatial legislation or is this annulment of any spatial planning and rational and European and developmental? I really don't think a serious government can do that. I think that you have not read the amendment or some people have put it very strange in your papers. In Article 9, Mr. Tagaras says the end of building permits. Yeah, but for the big constructions, he puts a ceiling on it. Big people don't pay much. Did you notice that? There's a ceiling, there's a ceiling. Article 11 of the amendment calls for all the legislation of Mr Economou and Mr Hatzidakis to be waived. ‘closes the eye’ and allows for the continuation of construction permits in off-site areas. To tell you the truth, we would need Mr Economou here to explain to us what happens with this article against his own transition. Let Mr Tagaras do so - and he is an engineer - to explain to us what he is solving for engineers and common citizens. Rather, the green profile of the abolition of the out-of-built construction plan announced by your predecessors is deviating with this amendment here. We would like, for example, to tell us how a structure arises in two acres, while Mr Economou said to stop out of plan. So you're undoing all your own legislation. You come to Article 12 and you are in our words, saying that we need something for the road network. Only, Mrs. Perka, because we talked about it together, don't tell us who's going to take these studies and work. It is also a matter that is played from behind. As far as 13 are concerned, they go to the swimming pool of KESYTOVA - perhaps the Secretary-General knows them, but I must not address you the reason why you have no right to speak and I am sorry to invoke your capacity - to allow areas where there is a new framework to be licensed with the old one. I guess someone's lost control because they changed the frame and you're going to take care of it. We'll find out who he is, because we're monitoring your licenses very well. In Article 14, you regulate the simultaneous version of the special urban and orbital sites. But you didn't tell us what area you wanted to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u352	You'll get over your prototype in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u353	As far as forests are concerned, we must say, Mr President, that there are some issues - we would very much like to discuss them - which create insecurity in implementation, Minister. She's not so well-processed. We recognise the obligation, if you like, and the need to proceed with the process of recognizing ownership in areas where the presumption of ownership does not apply. We see that you are amending the composition of the councils, instead of three judges, only have one fold in their composition. But here we see that his opinion on the Minister is not binding. This is absent from the new regulation. We don't understand why you're doing this. There is also no review step, so it cannot be resolved at second level. And, of course, we think it will have a problem of implementation because it is difficult for civil servants to say that the public has nothing to do with it. We're looking after this. We will not vote on this amendment. We're telling you. Even the process is insulting and very handy. We believe that you will have many problems both for the resignation of the public and for the second level of crisis. As far as forestry is concerned, we agree on the extremely urgent characteristics, but we cannot understand why they are exempted from licensing. So far they haven't been anti-military? I remember that Calamos and Kadandriti were doing it in a semester. I do not understand what changes and why a 'blue-blue-blue' is being created. As far as the necessary work you put on parks and blooms is concerned, I must tell you that focus, mild recreation and naisks do not seem to me to be absolutely necessary and necessary to exclude them. Something strange's probably happening here too. I say this in good faith because we obviously can't cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u354	I got a message from Mr. Kaklamani, not to go too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u355	Good, Mr. President. So we are not pulling it off, and I close by saying that there are obviously some issues that we could discuss, but unfortunately the procedure of these three amendments was offensive to Parliament. In that case we, even now, Minister, are waiting. You want to drop them off so we can put them in another conversation? In particular, for forests we could help you, but not for photographic and town planning amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of State, Finance, Development and Investment, Home Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs have today tabled 20-7-2021, a draft law on the competence of the Ministry of Digital Governance: "Modernisation of the National Building, new digital services and strengthening digital governance".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u358	If you'll speak after Mr. Sedetakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u359	I'd like to testify a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u360	I'm sorry, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u361	I would like to table one last piece of legislation, for briefing Members and Mr Famelou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u362	Mr Sedetakis, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u363	I don't know if you understood, Minister. You have been criticised for not bringing in an amendment. From where you hear what you are bringing, bringing, bringing amendments, you have now criticised Mr Famello for not bringing an amendment. Get the fuck out of here! We heard that, too. Now about the bill, we've been through it. It is a bill which, in our view, brings innovatory provisions in order to manage to change the environmental awareness of citizens and make them partakers in what we want to achieve, the objectives we set out in Article 82, so that we can reach the European average. What did we hear? We heard criticism of everything, everything. Mr. Femmelle, gentlemen of the Opposition, unfortunately the numbers are relentless. We are shortened and this is not only because of you who ruled four and a half years ago, but also because of you. And so it would be nice to come here to give solutions and to stop this denouncing reason, by coming in with these figures to say that 'we did well'. I am sorry, but I think you are pleased and satisfied very easily, and perhaps that is why the election result was what it was, because you think you did everything well. Well, Minister, now for the amendments. It's important for the forests. When the forest maps were posted, there was a serious inconvenience to us down in Crete. You came down, you turned all four prefectures, you promised that we would try and give a solution to ownership, because people were afraid that they would lose their land, lose their property, because exactly on the map something seemed forest. So you come with this amendment to begin with, because that is not just the problem, there are other problems. I know it's very difficult to legislate about what it has to do with the forest. We have issues that are very difficult legally to overcome, but we are starting to keep our promises and solve this problem. The other amendment concerning the specific conditions for construction for ECAQ, the National Sport Centre for Heraklion, we welcome it. This amendment comes in cooperation with the Ministry of Sport. My neighbor, Minister, has set a plan to upgrade the national sports centre and to allow the citizens of Heraklion to enjoy sporting facilities, which meet the conditions they need to serve and host competitions in various sports that will also be built there. And indeed, I congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, as well as the leadership of the Ministry of Sports. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that in my prototype I made a modest call to the opposition to change the level of political controversy. Of course I did not have the slightest hope of being heard. After all, such encouragements have been made by other colleagues and by ministers and by the Prime Minister himself. Unfortunately, once again it has been shown that the Opposition and, above all, the Civic Opposition is clinging to yesterday. Reason for unjustified acidity, undeniably biased and unequivocally misleading. The image disappoints everyone we want to convince people to change environmental consciousness and enter the process actively, to change the country's environmental image. But what is most frustrating is the undeniable denomination. From this Step by SYRIZA's rapporteur spoke of scandals, he talked about jobs that the Prime Minister's family does and about other unacceptable things that do not honor either the Prime Minister himself or the Prime Minister himself, nor the space in which he is located. I'm sorry to say it, but without evidence, you're confined to slandering and lying. The citizens are constantly seeing this to their great disappointment, who have supported their hopes for something better at the Anti-Population Officer's party. However, you can continue on this downhill path for a long time, so that very soon you will be able to delete the aggressive definition of "realistic" in front of the opposition, for fortunately, "opposition" will not eliminate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Sedetakis. We will start first from Mr Tagaras, the State Secretary, and then I will give the Minister the floor and we will close. Good accounts make good friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief, I have just taken the floor to say two words. We do not change what was legislated by Law 4759/2020. Since there have been towns that have created this issue in terms of translation and explanations, I explain where this law applies and how this law applies. We are not changing the derogations because you have referred to derogations. We do not change the derogations, we simply supplement and especially the mathematical formula for dwellings, how it escalates to eighty-six square meters for dwelling that is allowed as a total surface from two to four thousand acres, what applies to the smaller surfaces on seven hundred fifty meters, the thousand two acres. As far as public roads are concerned, I said that this was after the decision of the Council of State 2003, not yesterday or last year. It is a question of building capacity, of off-site construction. And with the arrangements we make, let's go with overall planning to deal with a very big problem that comes from the past. As far as high productivity is concerned, we said that, even if there are reasoned proposals and through a strategic environmental impact study, there could be a small zone around the city plan or the settlement, and of course, since there are no infrastructure networks in that area and, of course, health and safety as well as all studies and substantiated ones, including a strategic environmental impact study. I'm saying this so we don't have any impressions that we're here to change. We came to explain, we came to fill out and we came over time issues that have existed since the past, to give way. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, too. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, has the floor. First of all, I should like to refer to what the representative of the Communist Party of Greece said about the amendment relating to Shhisto. He said we're actually creating a new Gender in Schisto. Mr Colleagues, I would like to say that the GDR, namely the integrated waste management facility and the landfill area, are things that are contrary to each other. The integrated installation, the integrated management means that there will be a waste treatment plant which will make a very correct process of development as much recyclable as there is from solid waste, which will arrive there and, of course, there will be next to a landfill site where there will be a very small percentage of the residue that results from the process of managing the mixed waste. So, it's a, I think, right facility. This is what we want to have more in Attica, so that we can manage the great problem that Athens and Attica unfortunately have with regard to waste management. Let us not forget that it produces almost one million eight hundred thousand tonnes of solid waste in Attica. And all this, at the moment, unfortunately, ends up in the Ghost HIT, in the processing plant where it exists, a composting plant that has a potential of about 100 thousand tonnes, if I remember well, and the rest is unfortunately buried. This, of course, does not honor the Greek society and certainly does not honour the way in which we have so far managed waste. From that point on, Mr Famellos, a representative of the SYRIZA, referred to cases and to the increase, and it seems that the epidemiological burden is increasing, and that is why he should give us our attention and, finally, cause us all to motivate our fellow citizens to be vaccinated. Here, finally, SYRIZA needs to take a clear position on what's going to happen with the vaccination. Does he want the vaccination, or does he not want the vaccination? Because here I see most of the SYRIZA MPs, but even the former Prime Minister himself, the President of the Police Department, almost came and said the same thing Mr Velopoulos said from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u367	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u368	They seem to have left, these are the remains of the cooperative that SYRIZA had with Kammenos and the Independent Greeks. Unfortunately, such residues have been left and they say the same thing about the vaccine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u369	That's embarrassing now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u370	I have not finally understood if you want and if you are clear, and if you have to say that some specific social groups need to be vaccinated, and in this way we should help, so that our society can get immunity in total. From there on, you yourself said that you received four to five PPPs that were advanced, they were mature. One of these was the PPP of Corfu, which you have just assumed was actually cancelled and the design changed. There's more, like you said. I repeat the number four to five. Of course, can you tell me how many PPPs you have finally built, how much you have compromised and built and how much you have built in the four and a half years that you have ruled this place? Because, indeed - and you know very well - you have not started, mature, and you have not compromised, and you have not built one single of these four and a half years that you have been in the governance of the place. So, I think that's all. Good criticism, but first you make your self-criticism and then come here and suggest solutions for how we can proceed and find better ways to deal with waste management. You have accused us of not reducing the burial fee for these municipalities that are moving towards a circular economy or reducing the burial ultimately, in the direction of the landfill process, through waste treatment plants that will be built or other ways. And of course we don't reduce it. This is a political decision, because we must understand that until we reach the goal - which is to bring the residues to health by more than 10% of the total percentage we produce - everyone must have the stimulus and the thought that they should do what they are going through their lives and all the actions so that they actually lead, eventually, to divert waste, to reduce waste production, to reuse and recycling, then to recover and, finally, to go to landfill. Why did we put combustion plants in the bill? Because there must be all the waste management tools in a national planning. We've set a target of 65% recycling in 2035. If we consider that 10% will go to landfill from the total waste, then we have 65% plus 10%, a total of 75%. There is a remaining 25% of the waste we have to see what we are going to do. A piece, of course, can be diverted by other methods and essentially by applying and incorporating the principles of the circular economy, but there will eventually be a percentage that we should use in energy. That's what we say, and that's why we're coming and that's what we're talking about, why is that going to go? The logic, of course, is to drive to the cement industries, but how much can they absorb from this residue that can be recovered energyly? From there on, as far as RAE, regulatory authority and EOAN are concerned, I would like to tell you that the Greek Recycling Agency currently has a regulatory role. As regards the collective alternative management systems and in general, alternative management systems, it is precisely this organisation that has today been responsible for monitoring, approving and monitoring the operation of collective alternative management systems. So he plays this regulatory role. We want this to come and we want to increase it even further. Of course, when we go to the next phase that we really have a purely regulatory authority that will manage the waste management sector, then of course it will also change the subject of the principle itself. With regard to a number of amendments, Mr Colleague, I would like to say that you have dealt with nothing but a few words, perhaps you have seen it positive, but you are not looking at it positively in terms of resolving the property problem. That is a problem, which you said you would see positively, but you haven't had the time for ten or twelve hours that we have been discussing and since last night. So it's so important, but not so important to sit and come, to contribute, if there's anything you want to improve, because you're not going to find one improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u371	Do you want to see the Minutes I said what we'll vote on?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u372	Of course, you didn't tell us if you voted, if you support it. It is an issue that solves many of the problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u373	I said what we're going to vote on, not that we're going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u374	Good. So please, and I will be glad to see that there are things that can bring us together and agree on what is indeed in the public interest and solve problems. We call on you as a whole, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this bill, which we have said is a reform from the outset, as you have in your hands a text describing the management, the way, the legislative framework governing waste management, and recycling, and in this way we believe in all these actions described in means that we will help to achieve the very ambitious objectives that Greece will set and in terms of solid waste management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed at the outset, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘An integrated framework for waste management – Incorporation of Directives 2018/851 and 2018/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste, as part of the organisation of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, provisions on plastic products, urgent provisions on the protection of the natural environment, spatial planning and energy regulations’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the start of the bill, a hundred forty-seven articles, six amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u376	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u377	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u378	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘The integrated framework for waste management — Incorporation of Directives 2018/851 and 2018/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste, the framework for the organisation of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, provisions on plastic products, and the protection of the natural environment, spatial planning, energy and related emergency arrangements’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u380	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-20-S1-commons.u381	With the consent of the House at 23.16 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 21 July 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
