ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 28-7-2021, the minutes of the ROST meeting of Wednesday, 28 July 2021 concerning the vote on the whole draft law: "School upgrading, strengthening education and other provisions" were ratified by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us in writing that regarding the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Thursday 29 July 2021 Question No 97/24-2021 will be discussed, pursuant to No 976/24-2021, 97-24-7-2021, 97/24-7-2021 topical questions and Question No 2615/404/13-12-20 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure and will be answered by the Secretary-General of the Environment and Energy Mr Georgios Amyras. We will begin with the second question under number 976/24-2021 of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct need to protect citizens against noise pollution in the municipalities of Western Athens". Before you begin both to you, Mr Arseni, and to the Minister, because we have to finish because the bill will begin, you will be perfectly precise in time. When two minutes do not complete the rest in dentistry. Please for absolute application of time. When we have comfort, we do not prevent anyone from developing any further. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, thank you. I would ask for a small tolerance if necessary, because we have been in the Chamber for ten minutes and have been waiting for the meeting. Minister, we have municipalities in West Athens where the issue of noise pollution is really off limits and the problem is off limits and there are concrete measures that can be taken and have not been taken. I shall refer more specifically to the Municipality of Saints Anargyra - Kamaterou. From the Three Bridges to the suburban over a length of about five kilometres, heavy-night vehicles with all sorts of waste bound for the Flood HYTA. The noise levels for the inhabitants, apart from the pollutants they breathe, and especially for the inhabitants who live near the Race Avenue, but also on other roads that I am going to be talking about, are far above the permitted limits. The same is true along the Athens-Lamia National Road, Kifissos Avenue where the necessary sound fields have not been placed. It is an issue, of course, that concerns all of Greece, but there is a special tension in the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou. Generally in Greece one in five inhabitants of the city resides in areas with a daily noise that exceeds the upper national limits, while one in four resides in areas with night noise that exceed the upper national limits for the night and with a 10-year study that had been found to be more than 60% of the inhabitants of Athens and Piraeus live in unacceptablely high traffic noise levels from 90 to 100 dB and, of course, ranging in the night or day, especially if they are in the central roads. Why is all this important? Because the World Health Organization tells us that overruns of noise limits in the long term can cause people to increase blood pressure and continue ischaemic heart disease, problems in the heart system, hypertension, and even stroke. We are told by the World Health Organization, not by a single doctor or organization. European Directive 49/2002 with this logic was created as a common basis for addressing precisely the commitments and obligations it creates for Member States to tackle noise in Europe. And I'm just closing up with a simple reference to questions: What has been done to address the problem of the West Athens region? Has there been a mapping of sound levels? If so, when and at what points is there a noise mapping study along the National Road Athens - Lamias on the Kifissos Avenue at the border of the Municipalities of Agaleo - Peristeri - Saints Anargyro - Kamaterou? Is the sound screened and sounded and the "green walls" in heavy spots? Is it committed to taking measures and to provide support to the municipalities concerned for the placement of soundfields and green walls? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. I'll be in three minutes as soon as I can. First of all, Mr Arseni, I would like to agree with you that noise is one of the greatest causes of civil agitation in many urban areas. In particular, your emphasis on noise pollution on the road network of the Municipality of Agios Anargyra and Kamaterou clearly deserves the attention of all of us and of course of the services whether it is the Ministry, whether it is the region or the decentralised administration. The fact that it actually passes around 24 hours from the point you're talking about, from the three Bridges to the HITT of the Heavy-Travel Vehicles, certainly worsens the issue of noise pollution in these areas. That is why I can assure you that we, the Ministry of the Environment, are starting and immediately working with the Attica Region and, of course, with the Municipality of Anargyra - Kamaterou, in order to make the exact measurements needed on the points - which, like you mentioned, are points of burden and noise pollution for the inhabitants and, possibly, others that we cannot know at the moment, but the inhabitants are surely aware of them because they are obviously facing this problem every day - so that after the necessary measurements there is, of course, a study of projects to reduce noise pollution. As far as noise is concerned, let us not be completely negative. In many parts of the urban fabric, or where it crosses the urban fabric, the national road has entered sound holes. According to anti-noise studies by the competent authorities, measures such as layering with special immovable property, reduction of traffic limits and more have been taken at the national road points. But it's not enough to stay there. As you say, there is the Community Directive 49/2002. So within the framework of this directive, we have decided and launched a competition titled "Building a strategic noise map and an action plan for a Athens town complex". It is a 616,000 euros worth of VAT now 148,000 euros. With this work that Greece will have for the first time, in fact, our country will have a strategic map, to know where the problem really exists and what the action plan is to deal with. I will tell you that this work, that is, the tender, has a delay of legal nature, given that there was an objection - a preliminary action and the date for the submission of tenders has been extended until 19-11. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I certainly welcome the government's commitment and we will be here and we will monitor its implementation. But look. It has been done, pursuant to the directive, to map out noise and I am referring to what has been done through the NRP 2007-2013. It was eleven noise mapping studies, from which the strategic noise maps and action plans for seventeen groups in the country emerged. None of these seventeen complexes are concerned with western Athens, although we all understand that since the people who live next to the highway and have uses of surviving such as the multi-influent HYTA Gender, the situation is much more prejudicial over there. Right now, we don't have soundproofings there. That is why I would also like to remind you of my second question, namely whether the Ministry will help if the municipalities in particular will also be able to help the Municipality of Agia Anargyra, but also wherever there is a problem, to get these sounds on the highway. In 2021, it is not possible for there to be residents in the capital of our country who live on the national road and do not have soundings, that is to say, sound protection. I think that these are self-evident things, of course, and for the other regions where the important problem is identified, and of course, the recording of the noise levels laid down in the directive and from which it has been excluded - for reasons that we do not understand - until now Western Athens, despite its burden. So, yes, I would like your commitment that noise mapping will include the municipalities of western Athens, especially those who are self-evident to think that there are noise problems because residences are bordering with central road networks, but there is also funding for the municipalities to end this, that is, having a national road without soundfields, central arteries without sound protection for residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I can tell you clearly that, yes, in the strategic noise map, we will be integrating Western Athens and beyond, as I have told you, in consultation with both the region and with the specific municipality, namely the municipality of Saints Anargyra and Kamaterou, so that we can identify before the strategic noise map is drawn up, the points where support is needed against noise, that is to say, to enter sound tracks as you say. We fully agree on this and we will do that. What it has said is important to know what action plans of this strategic charter will include against noise. They will include direct and indirect actions so that the impact of exposure of the noise of such management on the environment is drastically reduced. So we are talking about day-to-day noise and night noise and, more generally, about improving the acoustic environment. So what will these actions be, which are not theoretical? I would just first describe their structure so that you know that the national plan that we are preparing and the noise map in the most important urban centres in the country will aim to: Specific traffic regulations, such as a reduction in speed limits, bans on lorries, transport train management, monopolies and the construction of special anti-corruption roads, a placement of natural sound stations - I told you that we will not expect the work that is of course important because it will give us precise details of the points where we need to intervene - the installation of monitoring systems for this problem, noise, with the participation of the municipalities, with the participation of the regions. However, there are also the indirect actions and actions that we are launching, such as wider orbital and urban applications, the establishment of strong areas. It is something that is particularly widespread in Europe, and we need to start learning and applying it and we should do it as Ministry of the Environment and Energy in Greece. In this way, we will place particular emphasis on the introduction of this application, that is, of the quiet regions. It will not only be one in every city, but it will be more, taking into account the relevant legislation, and above all - as you say, and we fully agree - that man needs to live, develop his life in a quiet environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u9	And we thank the Minister. The first question under number 977/24-7-2021 will be debated now under the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The Government promotes as a strategic investment wind power station in Karysia, Evia, for which it has received a letter from the European Commission". The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for the previous substantial and complete answer. Now, this issue will be much more crusade because there are very great interests here, which I know are beyond you personally. In fact, we have in Karysia, in a place where, for the past wind, there was a clear procedure to refer the country back to the European Court of Justice, into the same region to new winds, without the procedures being respected again. Although there is a procedure of referral to the country for violating European legislation on the licensing of wind turbines in Karysia, we see that wind turbines are continued and ejected into this area. In particular, at the moment in Karystos Municipality, there are four hundred 11 wind turbines, while the design will reach the seven hundred forty-five. We have the installation of a hundred and twenty wind turbines which the RAE actually approves, bringing the capacity to bear in a way that we have discussed and seem to be completely illegal, because there is no agreement from the relevant municipal council, as the Minister said in his initial commitment. They find these wind turbines within a protected area of the NATURA network, for which NATURA networks Greece has been convicted by the European Court of Justice on 17 December 2020, for breaching the obligations regarding the non-preparation and establishment of the management plans, which explain to us what the absolute protection zone is, what the area is where some actions may be. Over here, without knowing what the protector is actually, they go on and on and on. We do not have a proper assessment, despite all the warning letter which tells us that we will be referred soon and in particular about the licensing of winds. And the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments meets and without due consideration puts new wind turbines in this area. Questions are clear, so we can understand a little what is going on. If we are convicted of the European Court of Justice, will the operation of these winds be stopped? Will the investor pay the fine? Why do you consider it more important to set up this investment than to respect European legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, the reason for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Arsenis, I would like to point out once again that the Mitsotakis Government has given as its top priority the implementation of environmental reforms. The development of the domestic potential of renewable energy sources is, for us, a national energy objective, and it strengthens the development of the national economy and, of course, protects the environment. What better than clean energy? Based on the objectives of degreasement, it is estimated that new RES projects will need to be installed by 2030. Now, we are going very specifically to the Regional Unity of Evia. On the basis of the RAE register, a hundred and twenty licences have been issued for the production of wind power stations of 2089 MW, while the total number of wind turbines of these projects is one thousand and twenty. Of these, forty-nine 538 MW projects are in operation, thirty-three projects with a total capacity of 537 MW are licensed, four projects with an overall capacity of 65 MW have environmental conditions and thirty-five projects with a total effect of 948 MW are in the initial phase of the licensing procedure. I'm giving you all the evidence so that we can get the same numbers in front of us. Now we're going to the Municipal Unit of Cafe. There, therefore, twenty-four wind permits, totalling 362 MW, of which eight production permits made up of eight eight 98 MW wind turbines are in operation, fifteen production permits with seventy-seven six wind turbines of 251 MW are with installation permit and a production licence with four 12 MW wind turbines has no maturity. Now, of course, we have already discussed this in this Chamber on several occasions - with regard to the claim that the RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority, has unregulated the coverage rate of the municipality of Kafere at 170% - to inform once again that the maximum permitted coverage rate of land from wind farms to primary local authorities can be increased in two ways, either with the agreement of the local community, of municipal councils - which we do not agree here - or with the transfer of a number of wind turbines from the whole of the OTAs to which the project extends. This is a legitimate procedure. Applicable for priority wind areas. The Municipal Unit of Kafereos belongs to this category of areas. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Therefore, since these RES projects are large investment projects located both in Marmari and Kaferera, the increase in the capacity of this municipality - I conclude, Mr President - was the result of the transfer of the number of typical wind turbines from Marmari, from the Municipal Unit of Marmari. Therefore, the placement of wind parks took place perfectly legitimate on the basis of this provision that I am telling you, without a decision of the Municipality of Karystos. For the rest, I'll answer my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would remind you that the Minister himself, Mr Skrekas, had said that there had been an increase in capacity following a municipal council decision and after several months of asking timely questions and asking where this decision was, I applied for documents. It was not given to me and we came again as an unanswered written answer for it to be answered as timely. Then it became the new interpretation. We now go a little further, because the first has been discussed. What does the committee say in the letter of 10-7-2014? The warning letter is - for the citizens who are watching us - the final stage before a country is brought to the European Court of Justice. If the country does not respond in time and satisfactorily and if it does not change its position, it is simply referred to the European Court of Justice and follow the fines and others. It says and I read it because it is impressive, it could be from a competition committee what is described, says the European Commission: 'The Commission considers that an appropriate impact assessment within the meaning of Article 3(3) of Directive 92/43/EEC has not been carried out because it does not make full, precise and final findings and conclusions able to enter into any reasonable scientific doubt as to the impact of the planned work on the NATURA 2000 area'. The competent authorities therefore express the agreement with the project - namely Greece agrees with the project - without having been satisfied that it will not disregard the integrity of the NATURA 2000 site and bring these areas into line with Article 6 of Directive 92/43/EEC. But here, we also have a new violation of the EIA Spatial Planning still, this spatial planning that you keep telling us you're going to review and yet, you're in breach. Are you going to review it, or are you going to make it harder? You've been telling us for two years. But you're constantly breaking it. We had the violation of the bear capacity, we had the violation of the production licence in Kythera, distance from settlements, from traditional settlements and archaeological sites, and now we are going to road distances. I am referring to the distance of a wind turbines of fifty eight meters instead of a hundred and fifty eight provided by the law from the provincial street of Karystos - Platanistos - Amydalia. This distance is for safety reasons, because accidents have occurred from feather falls. The same problem exists in other S.H.I.E.E.E.S., in the "Mouiza - Great Petra - Brandouli" position, and here we have a hundred and twenty-two meters away instead of the fifty-eight planned. Similarly, in UNSCR "Milza" we have a corresponding problem at a distance of fifty-eight meters instead of the anticipated overarm. So we have a constant violation of the rules laid down in the special landfill, the Ministry must respond to whether these wind turbulents licensed in excess of the maximum permissible density, but also those that violate safety distances now - a new breach - and finally to check why the RAI issue producer's attestations, without considering whether the conditions of the special landfill are met, such as the minimum road safety distances for which there are elements and maps. There's nothing RAE can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u15	Before I give you the floor, Minister, to make a statement. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is true, the 27-7-2021 criminal case law concerning the Minister of Protection of the Citizen Michalis Chrysochoidis and the State Secretary to Prime Minister Christos - George Skerchos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we must say that the implementation of an investment, whatever investment for RES in any part of Greece, does not necessarily mean that we, as a general rule, need to allow ourselves to violate environmental legislation and national and Union legislation. Investments in renewable energy sources and environmental protection can coexist. The specific investments we are talking about in South Evia must in full respect each letter, every paragraph, every article and the national legislation and the Community directive. If we do not do so, the government and the Greek administration, above all, have the mechanisms - and the government of course has the intention and to control and impose sanctions and stop works. We are not making any discounts on environmental protection under any circumstances. By referring to the European Court of Justice, first of all, we must say that there is no question - this is your reading - respecting and respecting European legislation. There is no case for condemning our country by the European Court of Justice for this project, according to the competent authorities. Since 2017, the Greek authorities have answered the European Commission with the document of the Environmental Licence Directorate No 35804/15-9-2017 which, if you wish, we can submit. It is the country's response to objections regarding compliance with European legislation on the installation of wind parks within the NATURA 2000 network and the framework for its application. All these projects require authorisations, studies are required, authorisations are required, checks are required. After all, let us not forget the decision of the Council of State on 47/2018, which, as we know, rejected actions by the South Karystia Environment Association for a number of wind stations in southern Evia. The new spatial planning is now under way, and the country will finally have a spatial planning system, Mr President, so that we know exactly how and where wind parks will be located. It takes account of the new spatial planning even more - not that national legislation is not taking into account today - and Article 6 of Directive 92/43/EEC on appropriate assessment and we, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, will adapt the environmental licensing of large wind parks to European legislation even harder and more. There is therefore no question of the opposition of the Greeks to European legislation. On the contrary. There is an absolute array, and I think that is how everyone is satisfied with environmental protection, and of course there are no obstacles to the way for a cleaner fuel and cleaner energy in the country that it draws from renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you too, Minister. For the economy of time we move on to the second Question No 988/24/2001 on a second time question, by MP B2' Western Athens to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The anti-corrosion and flood protection projects have not yet been launched after the fire in the Geragina Mountains". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fire on May 19, 2021 at Gerranea Ores is one of the most devastating in all respects of forest fires in the past year. In addition to the incalculable damage to flora and fauna and the seventy acres of a burnt area in Gerania, he endangered the lives of residents in the settlements of Schinos, Vampiria, Mavrolimni, Eirion, Durakou, the Monastery of Agios Prodromos, Pinenea, Chania, Derveni and Sparta. As we are also informed by the "Granadas" Association, all the necessary projects have been left behind in all these areas to prevent a worse veiling scenario from a strong rain and a flooding phenomenon that will jeopardise the very same communities that have been saved, but also large urban centres. Korinthias Forests Directorate of the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese, Western Greece and Ionian Islands sent on June 2, 2021 - very soon after the fire - a text that I have before me, a superanalytical text that presents all the vulnerability of the region and proposes comparative measures along with a plan of logistics. The danger of flooding soils being erosion is enormous due to the high slope of soils in this area and we have, of course, already seen the phenomenon of 'Zorba', and we understand that the weather is so unstable now that the effects may be much worse than the usual and predicted. That is why we want to ask you, on behalf of the people of the region, whether there has been funding for all the necessary studies and actions to implement them, if a special study of counter-corrosion and anti-military protection has been commissioned for the areas crossing the streams of Surea and Mavrolimni, where settlements, cotton and Mavrolimni have been created, and what action are being taken by those mentioned in the document of the Corinth Forests Directorate of Forests, when the corresponding technical support works of praes will be carried out in order to protect vehicles and pedestrians along the provincial road of Schinou - Alepochori and the marine environment by the downfalls that will follow because of the vegetation which took place between the greens and the fire.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the question of the restoration of the soil and the natural environment in the burnt region of the GDR is a matter that we are concerned with every day. Clearly, we cannot rest until we are sure that we will have secured the lives and property of the people after this disaster. In fact, the President, Mr Bourras, has been in my office several times, and we have organised teleconferences with all stakeholders, with forest offices, with residents' clubs, with the region, with the decentralised administration, with many service actors, so that we can see from a close and step - step by step all the projects to be done. We have said that we want speed, we want speed from all stakeholders. You know that, Mr President, Mr Bourras. I'll start backwards. I'm going to Corinth first because you mentioned the Corinth Forests' document. I have to tell you that the people of Corinth's Forests carried out an autopsy on June 2nd, submitted proposals on immediate actions for restoration and just after two weeks on June 14th, the final study of anti-corrosion and flooding works of a burnt forest in the area of the Schino settlement of the Municipality of Loutraki - Perahona - Saints Theodoros was prepared with a total budget of 1,848,000 euros. This final study on anti-corruption and flooding projects was approved by the Forest Coordination and Inspection Directorate of the relevant Decentralised Command on June 23th and was then submitted hierarchically by the Corinth Forest of Corinth to ensure the financing of this project by the Peloponnese SAP. Therefore, the works for which you ask me are included in the final study. Of course, there is and will be the necessary resources, and now, since we have the final studies, it is time for the region to take the dog to start the works. The rest of it will be in my dentistry, because it is more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u21	You still have time and you will have the tolerance Mr Arsenis has taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u22	Very good. We're fighting, we're really fighting. We want to start anti-corrosion and anti-military works immediately and quickly. We fought for all sixty thousand four hundred seventy acres that hit the destructive fire. The key is co-operation. We worked with the municipalities, the two decentralised administrations and both regions. And so immediately after the fire, the step of the Forests and Infrastructure Directorate visited the area, wrote the relevant report - it has the information note - and, of course, speaking of the Megaras, it is only in the next few days, because the area was longer there and the study of the anti-corrosion works was completed in these poor areas. Attica Reafforestation Department has informed us that it is now ready to deliver the file of these studies. Subsequently, for the study and rehabilitation of the burnt areas and their armour with direct flooding and anti-corrosion works and, of course, with environmental specificities - geomorphology, the relief from the streams you said - and the administrative capabilities of the services involved, we immediately approved a credit to the Attica Reforestation Directorate of EUR 50,000 from the Public Investment Programme of 2021 of our Ministry of the Environment, to conclude a contract for support work on a study of anti-corrosion works in the affected areas of Alephorios Megali. That's what happened on 15-6. For the rest, I'm going to continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u23	Before you take the floor, Mr Arsenis, because my name as a member of the West Attica was mentioned, I must fully confirm the part concerning the West Attica and especially the Megaron region. That's right. I immediately visited the Reafforestation Directorate at the Decentralised Administration with a great deal of cooperation, and there it was found that there was no credit for the Reafforestation Directorate to do the study. At the same time I ran and went to the Ministry, found the Minister and on the same day he made a decision and forwarded 50,000 euros, so, as he said, as I am following it because I am very interested in it - it is my area - that is immediately the study that is being completed and will begin work at grades, you know, the first projects, the medium and the long term. Thank you, Minister. Just because you challenged me, that's why I took the floor. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you describe a situation where something moves in the Attica part to the Megaras, but there is a great inertia from the part of Corinth. You mentioned the progress of the studies. However, you said that as far as the Forest Directorate is concerned, it completed the preparation of the dossier at the end of June and there is nothing younger than the end of June until now. It's been almost a month and a half. So there is a question here about what is then going on in the region and central administration, with the promotion of study. I would like you to tell us what has happened in the period since the preparation of the Forests Directorate's file so far, as far as the part of Corinth is concerned. The citizens and the Ghana Association shall request immediate funding to proceed as soon as possible with the implementation of the anti-corrosion and flood protection projects provided for in the Schinos region by the relevant study completed by the Directorate for Forestry. In fact, they call for cooperation between the regions of the Peloponnese and Attica with a view to their rapid execution, direct investigation of the construction of suitable anti-corruption and anti-fungal and anti-fungal work to a competent authority or body for the areas crossing the runway Suriname and Mavrolimni, where the settlements of cotton and Mavrolim have been created, respectively, direct investigation of the construction of suitable technical support works by the competent technical department, with a view to protecting vehicles and pedestrians crossing the provincial road of Schino-Alepochori and the marine environment from the collapses that will follow due to the destruction of the vegetation that has so far held the fire, increasing the organic power of the Firehouse in Peri, with a view to transforming into a fire-floorder area of the larger area, with a view to the largest city's capacity of the area of the north and the north. These are things that I think are important and there must be commitments. We have here and the president whoever is also a Member of the region. It really does not show a rapid move to be more than two months after the fire, to approach the end of July and to have before us in August that everything in Greece is going slower. They'll come the bathtubs or the first rains in September, some kind of extreme phenomenon, and we'll say, "What can we do? We have lost." It is not possible for such a fire that has taken so much publicity, which has had to be discussed in this Chamber so many times, with commitments on what will happen and what will not happen in that area. Finally, we have a worse catastrophe and substantial loss of life and property than the inertia that I see so many months after implementing measures which were first designed and in the final plan, you tell us that they had been completed to enter a contractor's notice, since early June, and then their completion in mid-June. It's been too long. It really doesn't take any more inaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Well, there's no inertia, there's the time needed to get the studies done to make sure the studies are correct. Besides, in the next days in August, anticorrosion works begin. This is the first step, and immediately thereafter, and parallel to the development of the anti-corrosions, contractors enter the streams for the anti-milling. As I have said, economic approvals have already been made so that the region, decentralised administrations and forest directorates can sign up to the programmes, so that the first projects can be made immediately. And the first works are stalks, beads, corrobs, and indeed, on a proposal from Mr.Buras' President, who is a local MP, the rhetoric, the retinas in popular expression, who lived from the forest, were an essential link of a great chain for the cleanliness and safety of the forest, with the collection of the resin. And of course, we have decided and proceeded to work, because the forest knows, but above all they have the experience and, in fact, we have to give them a counterbalance for their loss of income from this fire. It's a special relief. Mr. Buras knows very well, I imagine you too. They must only enter for the first projects - and they will, that is, the necessary means have been found - and with animals, with mules to carry the torsoes and put them in the right position as a first anti-corrosion energy. Also, you can see that, if you go to the area. Of course, we immediately gave the approvals, the permits, and I would say, we have, in cooperation with the municipalities, pushed the cuttings of the trees on either side of the road. If you go with your car in the area, you will see that several hundred trees have been removed that were thought should not be on either side of the roads for greater safety of transiting vehicles. We, too, with our documents, with communications, with teleconferencing, have called, as I have said again, the decentralised administrations under which forest services operate to draw up programme contracts with us for any extra action to be done. We'll finance them. Above all, we are in contact with both regions, as, as I have told you, there are funds for natural disasters, so that they immediately initiate the process to finance, in particular, the worst-heavy projects, and the highest-population projects. So I say to you that, yes, we in the Ministry of the Environment are fighting and trying to cooperate with the entire public administration, namely, the regions, decentralised administrations and above all with the participation and active action of the local municipalities to prevent time, we have taken all the necessary measures, we have taken all the funding and, of course, we will be on top of a strict basis to monitor both the speed and the effectiveness of anti-corruption and anti-military projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you too, Minister. We conclude the topical questions with the second question number 2615/404/13-12-2020 question and application for the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The Western Athens will also breathe the burning of the trash of the centre from the new Waste Processing Unit (MEA) Flora". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a written question and a request for documents that remained unanswered to the part of the Ministry of the Environment, and the Ministry of Development has responded in some way and has thus become timely. It concerns the decision on 29-10-2020 of the Executive Committee of the Special Inter-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State-State - W.A.T. A.E. - for the First Rehabilitation of the EDPS OF AUTHORITY." Two projects were subsequently approved by the Interministerial Council, two PPP projects in Attica, a budget of 640m euros. One is: "The Waste Processing Unit for the needs of the Central Department of Athens". It's just shocking to hear it. For the purposes of the central sector, therefore, the PPP in the Gender area, the Gender CYTA, for the Waste Processing Unit, for thirty years of which the three will relate to the construction period and the remaining twenty-seven during the operation period. And again in the lung of western Athens, this time in Piraeus II, for Piraeus and the islands, something less was created, respectively, in Shhisto. Now, given that Directive 851/2018 makes it clear to the Member States that they must take drastic measures to prevent waste from being produced and not to manage once it is delivered. What steps are you going to take at this time? It's not something you've answered. How will these PPP projects, from where will the EUR 640 million come from, be European funds? Where are they coming from exactly? Why was the Gender area chosen for the new processing plant of the Athens Central Sector? What will be the benefit of the public and the citizen for the construction of the two projects? We also request and continue to request the submission of two documents, the dossiers containing a technical proposal for an economic offer of "ELEKTOR W.A.T." and the documents on the basis of which the Interministerial PPP Committee on PPP on 5 November 2020 approved the two waste management projects in the Attica Region, as public-private partnership projects, totalling EUR 640 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, the issue of waste and waste management, clearly, has been a huge issue and a major problem for decades ago for our country, which, unfortunately, had not done well in this area. The Mitsotakis Government, however, is determined and offers solutions to this dashing, complex problem, in order to protect both public health and the environment. I'm just reminding you of some evidence and I'll be right back to the individual issues. Last August, 2020, that is, the Ministerial Council approved the National Waste Management Plan for the 2020-2030s. It is an integrated waste management plan and gives us the general guidelines that anyone who manages waste and waste must follow. For example, the hierarchy tells us that number one is the prevention of waste, reuse, recycling and other forms of recovery, such as energy recovery. We, in the Ministry of the Environment, place particular emphasis on waste prevention, and that is why we have drawn up the National Waste Prevention Programme, which has been adopted by the Ministerial Council, is expected to be published in an FEK, and we have launched and drafted a specific action plan to prevent food waste, which, of course, is a priority for us. I'm going to the special questions. Your first question. According to the forecasts for the management of non-hazardous urban solid waste in the region, they are developed in full compliance with Community directives, as a matter of priority, screening actions at the source of various waste streams, such as packaging waste, biowaste, other recycling materials, and in addition, and in order to accelerate the diversion targets from landfill, provision is made for the construction of a waste treatment plant where the mechanistic sorting of mixed waste is to be carried out. In view of all this, therefore, the EDNA, i.e. the Special Inter-State Association of Attica, plans to build a waste treatment plant, the municipalities of the Central Athens Regional Division, through a public-private partnership, through the PPP. The unit will serve the municipalities - members of the Association of the Central Department of Athens of this regional section. You ask me how these two PPP projects will be financed and where the EUR 640 million will come from. The EDNA submitted to the Special Secretariat for Partnerships, public and private sectors, i.e. a proposal for the implementation of the waste treatment plant project for the needs of the Athens Central Regional Division, which was included in the list of proposed partnerships provided for by Law 3389/2005. Subsequently, a request was made to the Interministerial Committee to subject this partnership to the provisions of Law 3389 and by decision of the Interministerial Committee on 5 November last year, it unanimously approved that this work should be subject to the provisions of the Act and that it should be implemented by PPP. The contracting authority shall, without prejudice to any financial contribution to the construction cost of the project, pay the public limited liability company, which under the law is required to establish periodic availability payments by the end of the contract. The availability payments will be linked to the quantity of waste managed by the private consortium and will be consistent with compliance with the availability criteria and operational specifications contained in the tender documents, as well as with the achievement. They will have to catch up with the objectives laid down by national and Community legislation. The financing you ask me, of the project will be made with own and/or credit funds of the «Special Purpose Company», while the contracting authority will not in any way contribute to the financing of this project. Also, for this project we are clearly examining and exploiting the NRP resources, while the use of Community funds will reduce the availability payments, i.e. the use fees and increase the absorption of Community resources in a high added-value project for citizens, while at the same time ensuring its long-term functionality. I delayed, Mr President, but it was an important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u31	Mr Arsenis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm just trying to understand. The Greek Government will not give 1 euro, but will consider the possibility of paying 90% of the European money that is indirectly the Greek public's money. Therefore, the private person who will manage and tax the citizens on all costs for all these thirty years will probably receive 90% of the NSRP and the rest of the Greek banks that we have saved so many times. And then he'll tax the citizens? And will he have guaranteed quantities for that? So, on the basis of what figures are the quantities guaranteed? When the amounts given to him by the citizens will be smaller due to recycling than the amounts committed, will the citizens and the public clauses be paid? Because this is provided for in the PPP Peloponnese SYRIZA, but your government is spreading it through the ECHR everywhere. That is why the European Commission has rejected the funding. We have here, in other words, a dystopia where not only the environment is destroyed through combustion, not only will recycling be not done - because the percentages for waste treatment plants are known to us, it is public and there is very low recycling rates - but at the same time we have adopted waste transport stations everywhere - the legalisation of illegal stations - which compress waste and thus it becomes impossible to recover any waste to the plants you are planning to privatise waste. The municipalities will pay a fine for quite a few garbage to private individuals, we will pay the costs to the private who manage the waste, which will be managed through the NSRF and bank borrowing many times, possibly with a public guarantee. We will pay fines to the European Union, because obviously, we will not make sufficient recycling. We will pay fines, because we are managing the last stage, and that is why we are not financed by these investments, and we will now pay fines to the European budget, on the basis of what you have brought, as government and legislation. It is a photographic European provision for us, where Member States which do not make sufficient recycling contribute more to the European budget. In any case, that is to say, you are bringing the citizen into an economic deadlock, where he will in any case be lost and environmentally and health and economically. We really invite you to stop this crime. We see the statements by Mr Patoulis for a new study to find space at the Gender Cytome, in order to make a new space of three hundred and fifty thousand tonnes in the Race and, in fact, try to legitimise the continuation of burial and burning treatment in the Gender. We invite you to really change course. Make substantial recycling, at the source, melt the waste and take each municipality to bury it locally and where it is not possible, with bilateral contracts with another municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u33	Mr Minister, you have the floor to close today's debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, any possible partial financing of the capital expenditure by the contracting authority will not, as I have said, be made by own funds. It will be done by making use of the Community's resources. And what's their counterfactual? It will reduce the fees for the citizen. This is very important. The benefits will also be economic, in the pocket of citizens and citizens, but they will also be environmental. The benefit of citizens, therefore, is that there will also be a drastic reduction in the volume of waste to be disposed of, a drastic reduction in the risk of these wastes to be disposed of, a reduction and a avoidance of the possibility of water level pollution - this too is very important - the elimination of the need for a lasting search for landfill, the achievement of the country's targets for recycling, and the diversion from landfilling of waste, together, of course, with the other actions provided for in the Attica regional plan. So, and financially, it is the benefit of the private citizen, of the public, since the fees of use, of cleaning charges will be reduced if the contracting authority, as I have said, partially finances the capital requirement, but also environmental and health and in any way. We want to leave behind - and we do so, so the Mitsotakis Government goes ahead with integrated waste management solutions throughout Greece - the images you mentioned. On SYRIZA, I will tell you again, since you referred to SYRIZA, who either went to Corfu, saw mountains from the trash or went to Lefkada for the sea, in a wonderful idyllic landscape and left, you saw a dump and seagulls on top eating the garbage. That's what we put aside. In fact, I would say the first example, the first example of a successful PPP in this area was in Epirus, in the Law of Ioannina, in our area. However, in addition to that, we want to say that we have actions to develop quickly, with a rapid pace of sorting at the source of waste and the rest of recyclable waste. We want a rational, environmentally friendly management of Attica waste. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me some time. And because you asked me about the Race, why the Race was chosen, first of all, to say that there is the regional operational planning of the management of Attica waste. You know that. Adopted by Decision No 414/2016 of the Regional Council of Attica. It was also certified on 19-12-2016 by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Energy and provides for the operation of a waste treatment plant for the needs of the Athens Central Sector. The Attica Regional Plan is a management plan for all waste produced in the Attica Region, as it falls under Law 4042/2012 and has certain criteria. On the basis of these criteria, the Race was selected. What are these criteria? Prevention of production, preparation for reuse, recycling, and recovery - as I have told you before and energy recovery - and, of course, the safe disposal of waste at the level of the Attica Region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u35	Thank you too, Minister. I am announcing that the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The society of Boeotia requires clear answers about what is to come from the General Hospital of Thebes", as well as the first question of the cycle of petitions by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Government should publish the mortality rates in all the intensive treatment units of the country." Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: “Modernisation of the Greek Stock Exchange, new digital services and strengthening of digital governance”. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 July 2021 to discuss the draft Single Act in principle, on articles and amendments. The debate will take place with a combination of physical presence and Members' participation through Webex teleconference services. In particular, with a natural presence the rapporteurs, special fighters and parliamentary representatives, as well as MPs distributed with a six-member priority cycle, which will include one speaker from each parliamentary group in two twelve-member circles, each five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. Those of the above Members wish to participate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconferencing conference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u37	Now the rapporteur of the New Democracy has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u39	What do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u40	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u41	You can't. We'll start the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u42	I would like to speak on a point of order, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u43	The procedure is specified. What exactly do you want to say, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u44	Mr President - and I think this is also the case for Members. Ministers - we have already found nine ministerial amendments in our archive. The one that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Femelle... He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u46	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u47	That's not a process. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u48	Please! What are you doing? Are you interrupting the parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u49	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u50	Why are you interrupting him, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u51	Please sit down, Mr. Catsy. Don't bounce.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u52	What exactly are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u53	You're releasing the floor, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u54	Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u55	Amendments have been tabled. When your rapporteur gets the floor, he will say what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u56	I am a parliamentary representative, and I am entitled to be present. Don't create tension. I am entitled to speak on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u57	The parliamentary representative has the right, but at the moment no right arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I asked you to speak on a point of order before anyone talks. Do you want to pry me for any reason? I don't think you want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u59	Here, finish, but what you went to say has nothing to do with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u60	Does it have anything to do with the procedure? I, Mr President, also to this House and to those who are following us, show the extent of the amendments that the government has tabled. So the question is this: does the government want to pass on information to Parliament and to society... Don't laugh, Mr. Pierracakis. Is this a joke? I have enough seriousness in what I am presenting, but also in the way in which I submit it. So here, Mr Pierracakis, I would like you to join in. How modern and modern is the Ministry, which was legislating until late last night, to table an amendment, while meeting its own bill, on your next day? So here we see that nine ministries have come with this matter that you see here to table new legislation, downgrading the bill that you have to introduce today. There are many reasons, firstly, that you want to degrade your bill. Can you answer us if you really want to degrade the debate on the register and other regulations? The second is that you're in a hurry to make some arrangements because something's coming. Answer us. Do you have a plan and you suddenly submit all this matter to all the other ministries? Is that a fulfillment, Mr. Pierracakis? I see you keep laughing. Are you laughing about the fulfillment? You're making sure Mr. Gerapititi's accomplishment is correct? You continue to laugh inside Parliament. Here, Mr Pierracakis, we are telling you - and we are telling the Bureau - that the government must answer us whether this is a proper way of legislating. You can tell us what all the other parties have done in the past. But you can tell us about yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u61	Good. What you said was understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u62	We see that this is neither excellent nor perfect. So we, Mr President, say that it is unacceptable that the legislative procedure should be adopted. We wonder what he is hiding because in these amendments we learn that millions of euros are being played, and we want you to tell us whether that is the case, Mr Pierracakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u63	Mr Famele, do you not understand that you are entering into a substantive matter rather than a procedure, which this House has agreed on as set out by the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u64	Obviously, I'm actually going to get into it, because the essence is the Greek people, not the guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u65	Good. You've heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u66	So I repeat, Mr Pierracakis: does the government want to lower the legislation on the register and submit almost nine different bills? Tell us, Mr. Pierrakakis. Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u67	You're done, Mr. Famele. Mr Buquoir, please do not give another extent to this issue. Tell us, if you're entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, you know that I never confront myself personally and always put politically, but constantly in the last bills, SYRIZA follows the same practice, speaking of amendments and of the wrong way of legislating. Mr SYRIZA's Parliamentary Representative is squeezing the amount of amendments to impress them. Things are very specific here. It is, in fact, the last bill before the end of Parliament's work. A number of urgent issues need to be dealt with. The volume, Mr Colleague, is precisely why we legislate in a different way. You have brought us here for four years an amendment to a page, tossed it over time and asked for it to be voted on. Here each amendment is detailed, has the evaluation, it has the estimates of what it is and what it corrects, that is, it is not the clipboard. The volume you show in the House is of no importance. The substance of the amendments, namely the regulation of the debts of the Coronovirus, the vaccination at home, the fight against piracy brought about by the bill, which is the responsibility of the acceding Minister today. Isn't that all important? So SYRIZA, Mr President, because he is unable to place himself on the substance, is trying to create void impressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u69	It's not that we're weak, Mr. Bukowo. We can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Katsey, calm down. Why such a turbulence? What's bothering you? You said what you had to say. The rapporteur, Mr Savvas Snowides, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important draft law, which is another big part in the puzzle of digital Greece that we are building for tomorrow. It was a pre-election commitment to prioritising the issues of the Stock Exchange and this is clearly included in the New Democracy programme, and today there is another step up in terms of realisation, but above all how this is included in the national strategy to improve the digital transition. What we see slowly building is that digitally we make huge leaps. This is not just what we see in the House, every Greek sees it, and everyone sees it on their way. For many things one could wrongly blame the government, but that is why no one could blame it, even those who do not believe or support the prospects of this fact and this government. That's obvious, the last Greek knows now. We are also relying on digital maturity, which is slowly coming into society, possibly helping the conditions of COVID -19. So it is another leap to digital Greece, which will give ease, stop bureaucracy, give more security to each and every one of us, because at last we have to adapt to tomorrow. Tomorrow's here. The circumstances are very specific. I thought there would be a huge consensus and coexistence on these issues. The committees have shown tensions and objections, which could very easily be overcome during our debate here. We have listened with great attention to the bodies that we have seen that their position on the issues of speeding up the security of the digital transition is, above all, positive. We all agree. Of course, there are reservations. When the competent bodies were asked if they felt that there was even a vote of insecurity, they responded directly 'no'. Let us get into the draft law, which consists of 53 articles. If you want, we also add the amendments that have been tabled, which we have read. Anyway, it is not the best thing to have amendments to come, but when the current needs are such, they must come and especially when they are documented and have all those elements that support them, that is, what they are for the state budget, which Ministries are involved, in greater detail. And we got them yesterday. This does not mean that we did not have time to read it. For in this matter it is the supportive material that gives this tumor. Otherwise the amendment would be about ten pages in total. But they solve issues. And I shall refer to this part. You can't leave the local government, the cleaners that'll go to school tomorrow and don't solve their issue. For fixed-term private employees, there was a delay, and many municipalities would be left without people in collection and other services. We cannot accept the beneficial provisions of the Ministry of Economy and Social Affairs in terms of doses which are made particularly for professionals and for everyday people. These are issues which we have to do, we have to look at. And in that sense we support. You know that in the last two summers, and thirdly, there are no summer departments so that the House can not function for two or three weeks so that all the Members of Parliament and the workers can rest. In this sense they are also useful, they are necessary. They're practically not decisive. They are enthusiastic to be able to resolve issues that are urgent. And August will be a month which parliamentaryally will not be productive. So, getting into the draft law, I want to say that the first thing is speed. So to this day, what did we have? To date we have had control over the legality of the evidence submitted by someone, the posting and then the gulgothas begun: Submission of applications, objections to correction and you had to wait too long to make the final suspension of the stock records. I mean, we wanted four years and a little bit. The ambitious objective, of course, is that this process will be suspended by two years. Is that a little bit? And at the same time, one will be able to use one's property. 98% of cases have no problem. This 2% delayed the case two more years. So what do we say in this case? That, when these differences exist, they will be recorded in the land registers and, from there on, all the rest will be consortia normally. Is that absurd? It makes perfect sense. Because the digital transition is also a transition to common sense. That is what we are looking at, and that is what this draft law is all about. So not to wait for all the decisions until they are finalized, with a public authority that we know that despite the ambitious efforts of most civil servants, it is objectively impossible to deal with them. And from there on we have the institution of mediation. Mediation is something that we see in our lives, we see all over the world. One will be able to go to mediation and will be forced first to go there, and if there is a refusal or objection there are all the proceedings, without in any case depriving one of his right to appeal to the courts. Therefore, every claim will be recorded next door and anyone who wants to do even justice will know the possible defects, the claims that exist in this property. And in this way, the property of the citizens is not excessively bound, which is something that the Greek State has used to us. When you come to confrontation, the proceedings are so slow and the court can last six or eight years. So that's a good part. The concept of land use is created. To a second extent, the year-old may specialise in the case of the single appeals to be able to deal with these cases. Also critical, which expires or ends on the date of correction of incorrections, is that an extension shall be granted until 31/12-2022 so that incorrect incorrections of the first veterinary records can be corrected. It is therefore possible for citizens with greater comfort - possibly mistakes have been made - to be able to correct without having all these heavy side effects that the notorious owner has had or the corrections that can be made. Now as far as the unknown owner is concerned. Many did not register their property for too many reasons. Another because it is of little value, another because it says they will never take them away even though the law expressly defines it. So that's where a golfer began when you found that you had to do it and it hasn't been declared, wait for years to consent to the public and say it's no longer his and that you deserve it under procedures very, very bad and with enormous expectation. It is now a sixty-day term where the government has to answer clearly and if they do not respond, it considers that it accepts your objection. There is also the creation of the three-member committees where we have and cases where there are not the courage of some responsible heads of property offices to object and even though some things are reasonable on the part of the citizens. But he has this view, he records it. How did you get through it? Very difficult. There is now an appeal to the three-member committee which is being set up. Another part that is major and which the whole world accepted with great pleasure at gov.gr was to create our own safe box, our part in the great library of the Greek state called G - Cloud, settled and as we should have. Today it comes to become the electronic property transfer file once, so that we can know all the elements that are necessary and which will help us. To be able to ask the notary for distance documents rather than to run to the mortgages, to run to the various services to get all these papers. Do you want the average time of transfers to Greece? They exceed eight months on average. And today we are going to find a solution to a major problem. And anyway - because these views have also been heard - there is, yes, electronic data from the ADP. The issue here is interoperability. We may have the irreversible elements that don't work out. So here we are talking about interoperability and more than seventeen certificates can be received electronically to save the suffering. And also for investments to go better and get a better ranking in the "Doing Business" of the World Bank. It's important. And all the investments that are being made are not necessary from big farms abroad. They are investments that are useful. So, we're not saying that you're only facilitating the big guys, you're facilitating everyone who wants to invest, or whatever he wants to protect or transfer his property. From there on, there are provisions in the draft law which help to better organise the body. There is an opportunity to have programme contracts with the Technical Chamber of Greece for the provision of support technical services. It makes sense. Turns out the Technical Chamber can do its job well. It has proved this on a number of issues that have been made in programming contracts, and it will certainly also help in this case. The register of accredited engineers shall be established in order to support and provide support to and information on stock charts. Have we seen this before, the accredited engineers? Sure. It was the solution for supervising and monitoring buildings. Did it work well? It's absolutely certain! Because there is a logic here that the state must clearly do everything in its power. And I ask: today the signature of a private engineer when he gives a false document has fewer incidental criminal and civil consequences for the engineer or signatory than if a public servant signs? Should we not support these people who are responsible, have the state's permission, are they members of the Technical Chamber and, anyway, is there a legal shield of this kind that one cannot sign? But are there cases in all cases where one can escape normality? Sure. So here is where the Committee on the Supervision of these people is being held so that they can be monitored and, in a very specific and cruel way, in a very specific way. We are also giving the second chance to all people, who were unpaid mortgage guards or payroll employees to make their move. Mr President, because the amendments were large, and I referred to them, you will give me a three-minute bill. From there on, the twenty - nine articles concern this part, how it will be organized. For example, we have the part of cybersecurity. It's very important. No one ever says she's completely safe, just as she was absolutely not safe with the documents. For example, the Coropi Mortgage was destroyed in 1944 and all the documents of the contracts were destroyed. Nothing's safe. However, we have to have the greatest possible effort to ensure the safety of these services and the provisions are in place to be able to work 24 hours a day, as is perfectly reasonable. New services, then, are the next chapter. The twins, as I say 'MY AUTO' and 'AUTO CAD', are being created. So, what's this? Have with one in a single check, in what state is the vehicle in which you move: insurance, state and so on. The second part concerns my photography or digital signature, so that I can also have it in the warehouse, as we call it, the great storage of information on G-CLOUD, so that I can at any time use it for my relationships with the state or with any other third party. And anyway, it's the digital signature on the JEPs. In other words, what we have been doing for twelve years in the banks, where we go and say: 'Sign up not with the regular pen, but on a tablet'. This will be done in the JEPs and that is very important. An important part, too, is what is being done with the National Centre for Audiovisual and Communications. We see the actions he has taken, this government has started on SYRIZA - ANEL - to bring people out, to film, because this has multiplier benefits for our society and our economy. There's been improvements on our part from our ministry. Mr. Pierracakis had testified as Minister. But from there on, there have been the known malfunctions, which exist in the way they are managed. Therefore, a solution needs to be found, because the money that comes into these cases is too much and it is money that someone wants to get in a reasonable period of time and get any subsidies that exist. So, in this part, we are giving solutions, as is the case with the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, so that it can make spectrum control better, that employees can be paid for it. So, someone who's going to sit after ten o'clock or a weekend shouldn't have to be checked? Does the public lock on Friday afternoon? No, of course not. To be able to create these conditions, so as to say that we are a modern country, a country where her heart works every day, every hour, every minute. That's how a living organism is kept, when it works systematically and in a very specific way. In this sense, I think that the draft law has all those positive elements, which follow common sense, which put us at a different level and, from that point on, we must all stand positive and vote positive, possibly holding objections to how safe they are or will be heard in the world. We must all give a positive vote to growth, to digital Greece, to Greece, which is coming. That was the commitment, at least on our part, and it is said by the other places that clearly they want this, they want digital Greece, they want us to take steps forward. Here, then, is a big step in which I call on all of us to follow so that we can do good in this place, make it easier, give more security, become more modern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. The tolerance given to you will be given to all. The first rapporteur also defines the time for other rapporteurs and special speakers. The rapporteur for the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Marios Katsis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the rapporteur of the New Democracy has reasonably exceeded time because it is the bill, regardless of the amendments I am going to make now, dense and content, and indeed needs an analysis to understand such a technical issue. However, I cannot comment on this odious way, the marginal anti-institutional legislation by Mr Mitsotakis' final state. Are you bringing an important bill that changes the core of the register, which concerns the whole country, the real estate of each citizen in secret, in the middle of the summer, with ten days of consultation, with rescheduling meetings, just before the House closes and when? At the same time as Parliament is discussing draft legislation on social majority voting, such as the question of supplementary insurance, the draft legislation on the dismantling of education, which was completed yesterday and, at the same time, you are bringing, along with the changes that are making in the air and the Land register. Really, Mr. Ministers, so much confidence do you have in your reform profile and you bring them in the middle of summer, say, secretly? Why are you hiding that reform profile? So people don't know? And that's not all that's done. Many of the amendments tabled yesterday relate to bills which were either completed in the previous days or are under way by ministries. The Ministry of the Environment bill, for example, last week has a bill. Why now does the Ministry of the Environment bring an amendment to this in the register? The Ministry of Labour is currently discussing the anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots policies on subsidiary insurance. Why don't you put that provision there? And in education, Mrs Kerameou, the worst Minister for Education - as we know - who went through this country after post-Macedonia, why didn't she put her amendment there? Now is it argument that she's late? In other words, here you have made it a hobby of Parliament, and it has troubled you not to say that you are late when you bring nine bills and it does not open a nose. But whether you're so arrogant or so arrogant that you think the House is your dick. But what I'm saying now, because I know I'm talking to ears, don't listen. Let me get in the bill a little. Indeed, drawing up the register is the largest of the major projects, as has been described in the past. It is one of the major reforms that Greece needs in order to become a favoured and serious European state, and it has had to be a acquis for decades. And here emerges a key, deep political, existential - I would say a question. Are we sure, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Snowides, that we all want to become a land register in the country? Are we sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u74	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u75	Do all the political forces in this Chamber really want it? And if so, why isn't it completed yet? Why are we the only country in the European Union that does not have an operating register to know what belongs to it, what rights it has and which fall on the map and we have been in the shameful position of asking us to do so by the European Union and the World Bank as a contractual obligation instead of doing so ourselves? We were so useless as a country or was there a lack of political will and destiny? Let's see the recent political history. The Land register left us by the Italians in 1948 we abandoned it. The 1978 forest register was also abandoned by objections. Even the recent dominated forest maps have been suspended within one night by your own government. The large-scale urban reconstruction operation of the unspoiled Tritsis has been swept away as a temporary solution in areas that were delayed by the implementation operations, so that the land-contribution cannot be exploited. Should I mention the individual application actions for a property in a neighborhood that solved its problem and all the other property was going to the bells? In 2000, at the Government of Simitis, the big scandal broke out with the realisation contracts. We have lost European funding in our own country and a fine has been imposed on us by the European Union. I should also like to mention the implementation diagrams on one side, technical reports for a seaside real estate line. They are things that have been done in the country - we all know them - and they are detestable applications of the occasional treatment of technical, legal and environmental issues. And the next question is: Who is it? Is it our root havoc? The answer is 'no', ladies and gentlemen. The truth is simple. From a recommendation from the Greek state, with a few bright exceptions, the powers of the old-fashioned, the maintenance, the customer state, the rosphetian, the pedestrian trespassers who were found with great fortune in one night and their political representatives, who act as legitimate owners of the country, had every interest in never becoming a land register in the country. And that's because the little and big complication thrived in gray zones. They favoured the unreserved landscape, which was a prerequisite for the reproduction of the system of old-fashionedism. In order to borrow a soccer expression, I cannot tolerate '50-50', i.e. the clean rules. That's why we didn't have a register in the country, and that's the truth. And we're coming to today. Are we finally getting a register? Or do we make a major reform in the air just before it is completed, while it is in the final straight line and while it has entered the implementation tracks, and once again in history we overthrow it? The bill gives us a definite task and at the same time tells us that by definition, this unorthodox option ensures three things, and I will respond: speeding up its completion, simplifying procedures and security in trade. Let's see a little bit of land registering in the country and let's go look at outlines if you speed up, simplify or safety in transactions, or exactly the opposite of what you say, in your favourite tactics - it's true - euphemisms and self-importance. Law 4512/2018, the law of SYRIZA, set in motion the preparation of the register that was carcinogenizing and transformed the Register S.A. to a legal person governed by public law, in order to give authority to the institution but also to instruments in the institution. We received the acquisition procedures with many problems, which were then about 25%, and in two and a few years we reached 60%. In summary, the realisations of the remainder of the country that was declared in 2016, “Section 16”, relate to the realisation of approximately 16,5 million property rights in thirty-two contracts with a total duration of forty-seven months. The main secret of the real estate pension is the large involvement of the owners in order to complete the missing puzzle. For the twenty-eight of the thirty-two contracts of the programme, the collection of the property declarations on 19-7-2021, namely, of the month in which we are going, has been completed for 9.3 million rights in total of 13.8% of the estimated rights, i.e. 66.9% for these twenty-eight rights. For the remaining four contracts, with a total number of 2.7 million rights, either recently started collection -30-6 in Rethymnon and 5-7 in Cyclades - either not started yet, such as Chania or northern Heraklion, or no contract has been signed, as is in my law in Thesprotia or Corfu. Therefore, no statements have been made for 7.3 million rights in total of 16.5 million, i.e. 44.14%. As regards the completion of the earlier real estates, there are contracts in progress both from the 2011 and 2014 programs, the second phase of the realisation of Athens, Volos, Lamias, Livadas - the "Kitma 14b" i.e. - as well as the corresponding phases of 2018-Lavromatic and others. In fact, Mr Stylion, in your report to the committee that no realisation has been carried out in Athens and that they are being delayed, there has been a communication from the scholars that you are lying and I would like you to answer that. None of the thirty-two programme contracts for the rest of the country have been posted until today. Why? Two are the main reasons for this. All owners must first come to declare their real estate and, secondly, to declare them in good time and right, the corresponding property involvement must be received by the statement by the Forests Directorates of the corrected and suspended forest maps of your Government. And what do you come to do with this draft law? You are telling us that realisation is completed before the decisions of the Certification Committees are adopted. If that's possible! In other words, in substance, the register is never complete! And you're saying that for the first time in each real estate property’s stock, the rights outstanding (applications and opposing views) will be recorded. But this arrangement overthrows the whole nucleus, the main purpose of the Land register! We want to know, in other words, which field or plot or house belongs to whom and where it is on the map. Register and loose ends don't go together! They're not going together! I told you this at the first meeting that it is not a reform. It looks more like an old pesius prophecy. It'll be like we have a register, but we won't have one! Mr Ministers, you do nothing but digitize the loose ends and trouble the citizens and the country. But are you speeding up the integration of the Land register? No, of course, since you're closing this loophole and multiplying the loose ends. At all meetings, what is your main argument? That only 2% have objections and objections and cannot prevent the remaining 98% from posting the Register. But with the data I have given you a little more, which are not disputed, 44% has not been recorded for the rest of the country - which is mostly in the province - and after all, you have not made any campaigns for people to be declared in the Land register. And there really is the problem with the plots, the fields, which go into each other -- objections with the Forestry. Here you have not completed the forest maps and make them messy with already posted or suspended. How will the other Land register, Ministers? How will he declare a register? Can you answer? Mr. Stylus in an interview with him has bypassed it. He didn't answer when he was asked about this when he got to him. Only 2% will the objections be there, gentlemen of the government, or 20%, when the other 44% occurs? 2% may apply in urban areas, such as Athens and others, which can be many real estate buildings, but are guaranteed without objection. But from the information we have even in the 57% areas of real estate, there are rejected declared rights of 10%. '2%, which is 98%,' is in no way valid and is completely misleading and false. I'm going to your third argument. Do you bring in simplicity, as you say? But we have already mentioned that for a percentage of 45% to 50%, which did not have any ownership problem prior to the Land register or acquired it after its entry into the Land register - a involvement with forests, wind, streams, public land, adjacent owners - you could include it in the Land register with the applicable provisions. In our law in March 2019 - Law 4602 and Article 6a added to Law 2308/1995 - precisely to simplify and speed up the procedures, there were provisions for consensual procedures, which would be submitted to the post, so that they do not have to be examined by committees - that is, what you allegedly come to do with the bill. In the areas where there would be no objections, in other words, they would be completed by cemetery and, for the other few cases, they would be completed only after the decision of the committees was adopted. We have never implemented this provision! You have done nothing to get people into real estate, and now you come with a plan and a spear in the end to transfer all the problems and issues of realisation to the operation of the register. What are the consequences of this act of yours? Firstly, it undermines the credibility of the institution, which is constantly questioned by those who have an interest in never completing the register. Secondly, to jeopardise the security of trade. Safety in transactions with the disclosure on the stock of the unfortunate objected, requests to correct claims and problems with its ownership - which will follow him for an unknown period, since there are no deadlines for accredited engineers and intermediaries to make a finding - but also the number of non-integrated persons in the property register, which will be multiplied by the remnant of the country's programme, will, at least in the best case, create a serious delay in transactions and will bring exactly the opposite effects to the governmental intentions that you have on the country's 'Doing Business' category. This is probably a hostage to the property of this category and a brake to the expected growth. So neither speed up nor simplify - I proved it in detail - nor security in trade. What are you doing, however, is: Reproducing the old-fashioned communism that has every interest in not completing the Stock Exchange, rescinding the institution, creating a Land register - 'out-source' with accredited engineers and lawyers and trying to control part of the Stock Exchange, creating a permanent Committee of Experts, but also by intervening in the selection of managers of the real estate offices with two of the three members appointed by the Government. What's your purpose? You have two aims: First, in the major cities and especially in Athens, where the loose ends may be 2%, you prepare a large 'part real estate' in the hands of a few people with the operation of the Stock Exchange, with the bluntness with the forest maps, with the bankruptcy code that you voted for, but also with that 2% that may be a few cases with the main dispute with the State. But it may be a fillet that hoistes the great interests. How? The property of an unknown owner with the arrangements that he has entered - and you have been told by the bodies - there is a risk that thousands of owners will be brought into judicial proceedings to deal with the massively negative - unreasonable, even - answers which he is forced to resort to the public because of his inability to respond within sixty days, unless, of course, he has to deal with great interests, where he will suddenly find himself consenting, even by the non-response, as if he does not respond, a consensus is presumed. After all, you are going to introduce the institution of ombudsmen and accredited engineers, which carry them responsibilities that the holder of the register must carry out. Instead of serving the empty organic positions of the entrusted entity, you make a Register outside the Stock Exchange. The same thing, of course, you did to EKKA with pensions, and to many other ministries, such as in Development, the Ministry of Environment and Energy for licensing provisions, i.e. a "right state IX" without institutional memory. Really, tell us what is the result of the reform of the EBRD? Are you issuing pensions with accredited persons? Oh, no. You have citizens to pay out of their pockets, and so will the objections to the Land register. Of course, the institution of accredited engineers could help us here, under strict conditions, as is done abroad. But we have no confidence in you. However, we are making proposals to you, we have told you that it could be optional and include the provisions of the extrajudicial compromise of the Code of Civil Procedure, but you have others in your mind. While at the last minute you continue the consultations under the table, as you removed the Geographical and topography Engineering TEs that you had in the original text of the public consultation - rigging, in the original text you had the Informatics Engineering, when you put it in the committees were missing! - and that exposes you irreparably. Don't you realize he's exposing you? And we invite you to bring now legislative improvements and lift this injustice. It'll do you good, Mr. Style, not bad. And can I tell you something? We have had a great deal of pressure, all the parties have supported this injustice, to bring in an amendment. I will not bring an amendment and you know why I will not bring an amendment to resolve this injustice? Because you created this injustice. You've had them consult to enter the accredited record, you've taken them out. Get them back together! You're responsible. At the same time, trying to resolve the problem of subsistence of the institution, you put your workers in three years' service hostage. This is a pity assumption of your failure, and for the already workers of the institution, who were transferred from the mortgages, you did not make any provision - to say this too - for the equalisation of their fees and the recognition of pre-services. Second injustice, three injustices on the question of workers, you cannot recommend additional 12 posts of lawyers with a leased order, and at the same time workers are treated. And I come to a brief comment in digital. We stand positively against Articles 31 to 33. These are self-evident steps that will help both professional photographers and vehicle owners. We note, however, that the digitisation of photographs and hand-written signatures in this way requires additional guarantees of reliable authentication, citizens' identification, in order not to be exposed. And, Mr. Pierracakis, you have two yellow cards from us, two yellow cards in this matter and in the security gap of the authorisation of Hellenic Certificate of Vacuum, where it was scanned by another application and not by the official Greek Government of the Hellenic Republic, by the camera of a mobile phone. For example, Mr. Georgiadis who posted the Greek certificate a few days ago, if you scanned it with his camera from the phone, he could store Mr. Georgiadis' data. Today the government has changed it, which was supposedly unreliability and security, and now it cannot just be downloaded, but it can have access. So he doesn't ask log in. In other words, Mr. Georgiadis, probably all Greece, after giving it to publicity, could download the personal certificate of Mr. Georgiadis. Is that a security? You corrected it, but, as I said, one, the little part that can't take it down, but the billion has sinned - which they say - no man wise. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Regarding the 24-hour operation of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation in Article 34, this article is useful and important. However, the substation of this Office, which the Ministry does not deal with with permanent solutions but with patches that open holes elsewhere, is very worrying. In Articles 35 to 37, the Ministry comes to add forgotten arrangements to what law? At Law 4727/2020 of your Ministry, which you were horrificly insisting at the time to call a Code of Digital Governance. What does it prove today that you've changed it in a few months? That this was also a roughly drafted bill, apart from the fact that it was largely copy-paste of old laws, because after ten months you come to add and amend its provisions. With Articles 38 and 40 on the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications - by the way - you are changing elsewhere with an amendment to the Digital Governance Act, the code and a good code, I shall refer to the EMEA in two respects. Again we see it, for example...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Cassie, look at the clock across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u77	Yes, Mr President, eighteen minutes have been spoken by Mr Snowides, I, who have to make a little opposition, a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u78	Yeah, you're talking 20 minutes and half. Okay, but get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u79	I shall conclude, Mr President, by giving me three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u80	Not three minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u81	Two, two and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u82	Yeah, they'll be cut off from dentistry, move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u83	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u84	Okay, but don't take advantage of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u85	I think, Mr President - with all due respect - that I am entering into the substance of the provisions and doing on the substance of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u86	Yes, but if you really want to get in after 20 minutes, what is the matter with the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u87	I have not yet mentioned the amendments, the nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u88	All right, you will talk about the amendments in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u89	Not you who say they're small and measure the content.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u90	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u91	I'd be done, then, let me go. So, once again, we see the unacceptable provision for cash rebate, for eligible expenditure that has been incurred abroad up to 50%. In short, the Greek State can finance production costs incurred or taxed abroad and thus producers can use cheap labour from neighbouring countries, leaving the domestic and skilled professionals in the audiovisual sector at work. Secondly, you are putting external private auditors in the audit bodies of the EMCDDA and the auditors are cumulatively setting out to fulfil a series of qualifications required to register them in the relevant register, for which, as the President of the EMCDDA himself said, Mr Quanis, we do not know whether there is a human being in the country that meets these qualifications that you have set. He also revealed that for this reason he had the view that these qualifications should be divisive. What's going on here? Are we dealing with photographics when not even the President of the EMEA knows who can be registered in this register? We want your explanation, Mr Pierracakis, in this respect. And one final of the amendment to the Digital Governance you are making. You are able to sign contracts with the Greek Development Bank. And here I really come to laugh. If someone gets the committee minutes when we legislated on this arrangement, what did we tell you? That when you voted for the "FASIS" fund - which we say and what it is, it will reinvest revenue from the spectral auction for 5G - it had to go as a subsidiary fund in the Development Bank, not to go to the surplus fund. You did not hear us then, we voted against it. Today you are taking half a step to come to our words, but still that is reluctant. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u92	But close it, Mr. Katsi, close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u93	The register, Mr President, is a necessary real reform to which this bill refers. It'll create more problems than what's going to solve. We have been leaping to this end of decades for our country since 25% to 60%, as I said, of landmarking, as we did with forest maps, the constitutional check you have been ignoring for decades and the uses of land, regional and especially spatial planning, the engraving of cavalry. We can go ahead with reforms, because we have no dependencies. You neither want to finish any major work in the country. You are not "Mean Europe" that said your motto, but "We live a small Ottoman province", as Mr. Mitsotakis once called Greece unhappily. So, what was the change of philosophy you brought? You came here to apply the timeless philosophy of the Greek Right and the maintenance. We are closing the work of 'chatras', mocking them out to the European Union and the World Bank that we have done it, no matter what our actions will leave our place, bearing in mind to do services and real estate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u94	I'll interrupt you. Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u95	What do you leave to the next generations? Extremities, legal and trade insecurity and another great lost opportunity. With this bill, the Ministry of Digital Governance enters both the Ministries of Maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Katsy. Ladies and gentlemen, I read today on the front page of the newspaper 'ESTIA', and I think we should tell the House that the Imian shepherd died in his ninety-four years. The House tells him his last good-bye. But listen, what else I read, he was given an allowance from the municipality of Kalymnos for the gasoline he put on his boat to go across. And the Court of Auditors comes in and makes a decision that these are unduly paid and asks for his heirs and the Kalymnos Municipality to return the money. I want to believe that Mr. Petsas will listen to us, and immediately he'll settle the matter. For the Court of Auditors, although I respect the institutions, I do not want to say the word that fits and I think we unanimously agree on this. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I speak about the bill, I would like to say that your intervention seems to me to be extremely important, Mr President, and I fully agree with the position you have expressed. I believe that you have expressed all of Parliament's colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in 1086 the King of England, William I completed the registration of real estate and movable property throughout the Kingdom of England in just one year. I'm not telling you king, though. But that first real estate register - with the current data - acquired a nickname. It was the "Crisis Book", "Doomsday Book". The English people have said so, because no one can escape from registration at these restaurants, which were dreadful and dreadful and took place within such a short period of time. I'm saying this because that's exactly what you promised, that you'll be done with this thing in the Stock Exchange once and for all. I wish. I am very curious, however, to see, Minister, if today, nine hundred and thirty-five years after the first land register, with the current data, the day of the crisis on the Greek data has arrived, and if the leap forward, as the honourable Member of the Chamber said, has something to do with the Greek Land register. We, you know, have the special character of "promoting Jerusalem", those who are confronted with the leaves of the Register - often they haunt us in our sleep to know - lawyers, lawyers, magistrates and especially the people who are hurt. In Greece, when you say the word "ownerbook", you get an automatic deep sigh, i.e. a "aman" like it, and you say it spontaneously. Oh, shit, land register! When you want to transfer property or manage the legacy "if real estate!" is also on the lips first and best. You're the one "unfucking!" You come to answer today and tell us that you will put an end to this. Is that true? I have heard many of the previous two rapporteurs. Of course, since the New Democracy took place, and the SYRIZA - ANEL have been ruling. And of course we should all remember, backwards, that when we brought and built the Stock Exchange - and I say this for reasons of principle and the reasons for the historical restoration of the law - that emblematic Minister of PASOK, Costas Laliotis, who I think was very ahead of his time, what he went through and what a terrible conflict he had with the interests that he did not want in the Register and what great issues he had to deal with! This is to restore the historical truth in particular to his colleague, SYRIZA, who may remember some things fragmented. And, in any case, you had nothing to say to us, Mr Colleague, regarding the five-year management of the register by the SYRIZA government. You've ruled. You are not Opposition today without ruling. You have ruled. That's what you forget every time you get up on the Step. The size is measurable. That's the difference now. It's measurable, everyone's size. And to repeat once again about justice and the truth, because with fame I speak, that no one has a perverted hands and that should be said to the Greek people in truth and truth. The historical responsibilities for all of us, all of us. But let me tell you something. All right, as far as the Change Movement and PASOK are concerned, what we are discussing every time is about our own imports of major reforms in the country, just like this one. There has also been a lot of talk about the amendments by my dear Mr Famello. I remember that twenty-seven were in the number of amendments you brought to summers and we were following them in the last bills to bring them in large packages, from boxes taken by colleagues. So let us leave this and talk about the substance. In the amendments, Minister, we have said that we have again and again and again and we are absolutely consistent in our positions that you cannot put the dry one together with the green one. Where a proper regulation comes, you go with a wicked one to put on the side something else and we vote on the amendment as the whole and the first and second ones and the third ones say other things and we agree with the first one, but with the second one, with the third one not. You can't do that. We have also said from this step forward that we will not vote for amendments which you are trying to introduce and resolve such issues in such a way, that is, by putting and trying to burn with the dry and green. But the amendments in particular will also be placed in dentistry. With regard to this long-awaited bill, which comes as you say to address the burning issue of the land register in the country, I say that it is an issue that does not only trouble citizens, as I said before, since it is afflicting both the country as a whole and the country's reputation and the country's good faith in trade, because it is one of the few developed countries that does not have an integrated Land register. That is why it is no coincidence that the debate on this bill in particular in consultation and also in the committee responsible focused mainly on the first thirty articles in the Bill on the Rules of Procedure, even if some of the other parts of the bill, which undoubtedly have positive rules. But let's start, to be understandable, from the basic assumptions. Admission first: Acceleration of the cemetery process is imperative. The Land register is top reform, a reform - incision for the country, and in that we are all all allies and do not have micropsy and micro-participatory games. We're together in this. The register must be made and it must be completed. It's over. Admission second: Does this draft law conclude this reform, which is necessary for the country? Unfortunately, it does not complete it, because it is an idle bill, which defers the solution of many pathogens of the past, which are blocking an integrated realisation to date. Minister, you say that with this bill - and you are also coming forward with it - the acceleration, simplification, security in the process of realisation is achieved, with the ultimate aim of fully functioning the register - take note of the full - in those areas that have not yet been completed. But what do you actually do? You are not suggesting any way of completing realisation, but you are allowing yourself to consider it complete before decisions are taken by the competent committees, before disputes and objections are resolved. So you're telling us that we will issue land registers for each property, where rights outstanding will be recorded, since the objections will remain open and incomplete. In other words, you are baptizing “the register” for recording outstandings by digitisation. "Babbite" you're doing today! But you're leaving the same thing. And I honestly wonder how you're going to get through this in practice. And I'm talking to you as a fighter for law that I meet every day. You say "we have a change in the philosophy of realisation". It is true that you have a change, but, in any case, not the right way, but the opposite. And you know why? 'Value' means that we are able to speak accurately and clearly on the map of the country what rights each has on any property. Can you say that today? It's certain you can't say it. And here the questions arise: Why are you doing this? A citizen who now listens to us will say 'but they are now oppositioning the Minister, they are not serious, this man wants to complete the process and they are not leaving it'. Aren't we leaving you or are you leaving yourself? Is it reasonable, my Minister, that you have an open leaking wound, that you have hit, that the wound is infected and that they take you to surgery just to sew you? Shouldn't you first heal the puncture wound? Shouldn't you first break this abscess? It won't get infected, won't it? How can you do that? Leave all loose ends open, leave open all objections, leave the entire universe as it stands and come to say "vote" and "modernize". Yeah, you do it, and you put the bright label on top. But what's going on underneath that? What about the objections, the loose ends and the forest maps? I'll tell you why below. "Babitias", then! To close the matter, leaving this open wound, while things would be housewife if you speed up the process of resolving disputes, clarifying once and for all the landscape, if you progressed, that is, modernisation. So you're gonna wonder why you're doing this. You had two years to work on a comprehensive reform, but you did not work. And now? Now you're in a hurry! The truth is, you're running and you're not getting there! And I'll tell you why you're running and you're not getting there. You are not an inviolable modernist. You're a desecrated modernist. The first reason is that the European Union and the Recovery Fund have put you two feet in a shoe. On 13 July the ECOFIN meeting took place in Brussels and approved 12 national recovery and resilience plans. Among the twelve European Union members who saw their national plans adopted are Greece. Following the approval of the Greek project, the first 12 projects amounting to EUR 1,42 billion, to be financed from the advance of 4 billion of the Recovery Fund, were announced. Among these are the digitisation of the three hundred ninety mortgage offices in the country for the National Stock Exchange, a budget of EUR 242.4 million. There's the secret! Where's the secret? Here's the secret! That's why you're running! So this explains the basic and unexplained for us, namely, how it is possible to do what we have said, close the pouring wound without healing it. Of course, another secret in this story that makes us impression - you listen to that, of 2016, you, this side! - it is that at that time the same project would cost us EUR 90 million and not EUR 242.4 million. People should listen to that, too, to make comparisons, because there are many verbalisms. The second reason why you are in a hurry, Mr Minister, is why you want to justify the violent secondment of the public body Hellenic Register from the responsible Ministry of the Environment and Energy. When I read this on the news, and before I contacted it, I appreciated it as an extremely interesting political move. This is because it was expected that the cohabitation would advance and perhaps release - why not? - directly to the digital capabilities of the project. But, on the way, Mr Minister, it seemed that digitisation is not enough to solve the problems. Both the employees in the register and the real estate experts say the Department of Digital Governance will not be able to manage - be careful! - the complex legal and technical problems of realisation and the number of landfilling projects currently under way. And you know, with the bill being discussed, you're confirming them, because obviously we all want a digitalised register. Who would oppose such a proposal? But you're moving on to a digitisation by ignoring the real real realisation. Because you're talking about speeding up when the employees on the Greek Stock Exchange are talking about a subordinated service. Did you hear them? We are talking about a service with a huge volume of work, without clear internal working procedures to record legal matters and without communication between units and bodies to solve the problems that arise across the territory immediately and not in some areas, as you say are the target areas. And you've got terrible injustices in it, like the tech engineers, which you excluded, and we don't know why. And we're asking you to make it up to you, Minister. You had them in the consultation and the TSEs excluded them later. What for? Why did you do that? Didn't you see it? Is that a mistake? Is it politically inappropriate? You're going out and you're going to say it on the microphone! You can't say that! You'll say it! I hear you're gonna say it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you are talking about speeding up the integration of the property ownership process, but also making forest maps very important. The forest maps, however, are inextricably linked to the Land register. We cannot talk about modernising the landfilling process, when there is this serious loose end and the citizens' review has not been completed, in order to exclude them. In fact, how many such files can I bring you from my law firm, Minister, to see the finger, the labyrinth, despair, the 'unfair', as I told you before, of the citizens who are in trouble with this issue and, unfortunately, you cannot unblock it? And I will give you an example, to talk about both substance and practical and not just to make a high theory in politics, because politics is life itself. If you don't touch life, what policy are you doing? You're a theory! So I will give you an example of a hundred and twenty - eight families of Imathia Rims who have bought for a price of 1.250,000 drachmas of forty - two million nine hundred two thousand square meters from the predecessor owners. All these years the cultivation of land has been done without any problems, without the public exercising any claim. The transfer of land was normally made, without legal obstacles on the part of the State, which never in all these years claimed property rights on the rural land of the Risoma farm. People are listening to us now and they're swinging the head. The growers have declared and declared today in the annual crop declarations these areas in full rather than part of them. After the temporary real estate extracts were posted for the Imathia riots area, all the owners in the Roots found out what you're saying? That the Greek State registered rights of co-ownership in the fields at 24%! He suddenly came to people out of nowhere, without any right, without relying anywhere and without any logic. Can you tell me, then, how the practical mind you do not make a theoretical policy, but do you resolve the issue in practice, how today's bill will solve the problem of these owners? How will he solve this practically, Minister? You'll see after what I said about Impathy riots. He can't solve it. All of a sudden, out of nowhere, 24% came to people! Today, if your bill solved this issue, I would say "bravo, the Minister understood and came with a bill of important importance to solve practical problems". Because if the register is not an act, then what is it? It's an act! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like briefly to dwell on some articles in the bill on which we have serious objections. Articles 3 to 7, the backbone of the bill. We believe that the completion of the cemetery without the objections having been finished will lead to legal uncertainty and slow the process down. Insecurity, why? You close it, such as the subject, but even if the ceremonialisation is completed, no one will buy a real estate when objections are pending in the register. If you bring us, Minister, your personal share, in which you have purchased real estate, in which it says "objection of openness" next door, I will really stop discussing this issue and vote for it in all its articles and everything. You do it yourself, you have to put yourself - you, you, you are us, all of us, who vote and decide - ourselves in the position of the citizen. So unsolved, you would never buy anything in the register. Your bill today cannot lift that. So we have a very serious reservation. Until the end of the appeal, no transaction can actually be made for the property. That's the truth and the only one. Our suggestion? You could bring in arrangements that speed up the closure of the pending cases, create special real estate courts, this suggests the Change Movement. On the contrary, you are bringing us arrangements that do not resolve the issue of disputes and you are building a register hostage to these loose ends. Also, two words about Article 8, which introduces the mandatory mediation authority. Initial mediation. I have told my dear Thessalonica Minister for Justice, Mr. Chiara, what he has done, unfortunately, the mediation of legal cases here and here, delays, money. There is no record of ombudsmen. First you should've done this, you haven't involved the lawyers in the arbitration, you've never done this. On the contrary, we obviously agree with Article 9, which gives an extension of the deadline for the correction of the initial entries in areas declared to be in real estate. Positive, too, are the arrangements for introducing the Statute of the Court of First Instance of the European Union and for establishing further training of veterinary judges. You were right to think about that, it had to be done, and it had to be done years, not just now. Also, the suffocating deadlines which were set and the possibility that this can be corrected, of course, and we are voting 'yes'. In Article 15, which abolishes unpaid and distributes mortgages at the property offices in Kos, Rhodes, Lero, Thessaloniki and Piraeus, there you should travel and answer the questions. No provision for workers. What do you say? Where are they going? And the inhabitants of these islands, how will they be served? You should tell us that, too. Furthermore, the operation of the register should be aware that once again it should have no injustice. What I told you before about TEs, Minister, you need to see it. Also, Article 29, which concerns the electronic file of the property, is obviously a positive provision, but if the supporting documents required are not reduced, if the required certificates are not clearly defined, the provision will not be of substantial value to you who have the reputation and the glory of what digitalizes, in any case, and modernises and is not involved in bureaucratic procedures, this should be seen more carefully, in my view...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u98	Ms. Ligoli, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I'll finish with the third part of the bill. Minister, bring back changes to the National Audiovisual and Communications Centre (ECOMET). We have an observation here. The President shall become the absolute lord. It acquires the right to set up audit committees for investment projects with anyone who wants from the register. So he'll pay whoever wants to pay, and whenever he wants to. How can your democratic conscience tolerate this? Doesn't something blow up inside you that this can lead to many things and things? We're not saying they're going to happen, but you're going to have to predict. For the big one, not for the elsson. So you must listen to the essential criticism he is making at the EKOME, the Association of Greek Film and Audiovisual Television and many others who have mentioned you about it. Finally, Minister, we say that the good intentions must be for all of us. We recognize that there are good intentions to build the Stock Exchange and move it forward. There are good intentions, there are no bad intentions. Nor do we think that you are serving any more, that is what you want to serve, but it is violent, as it is, in the form of 'get'. Why? The deadlines for us - that is the truth - and, unfortunately, today's bill receives loose ends of yesterday, which will also be made tomorrow, with everything that will mean for the future of the Greek Stock Exchange. And, unfortunately, I see that we still have a long way to go in with modernization. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] PRESIDENCY (Nitas Kaklamanis) Mrs Konnakka from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Normally, Minister, today we should start the debate on the committees to discuss nine other drafts you tabled, because the amendments from all the ministries could still be one more bill. In fact, you even tabled an amendment from the Ministry of Education yesterday, while a similar bill was being discussed in plenary for three days. Is that your prediction at speed to solve issues? Yannis the Delis will speak of the amendment in detail in his speech. Indeed, however, it becomes a craving and used as an excuse that this was a friendly tactic for the previous governments too. We know this, we have experienced it many times, but it cannot go on and, above all, it is because in the amendments there is the problem that you systematically involve all kinds of articles, basically by taking the vote in principle only on the amendment and not on the individual issues, on matters that we would like and we could support if you did not interfere with other, curious articles. I shall refer in detail to my denunciation. I just want to say - because we have tabled a specific amendment - on the amendment by the Ministry of Culture, that, yes, it solves the question of the operation of the child service for workers at the Ministry's Solidarity Fund, but forgets what will happen to workers who are on the air. Those who have been fired, despite the fact that there was a arrangement that forced the government to take them to other departments of the Ministry and are in an informal hostage. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling on you to accept, since you intend to incorporate in the bill and the other amendments of the Ministry of Culture in order to incorporate all the employees in the Ministry of Culture and those whose contract of employment has been denounced, to revive and, of course, to continue in this way and to operate the child service. With today's bill, the government is actually attempting to implement its commitment to the Troika for the completion of the Stock Exchange by the end of 2021, closing the loose ends, as it has certainly attempted to do with the forest maps, but also with the well-known album that was created. In fact, it implements the urban policy on land and its use, that is, the strategy for the complete merchandise of the earth. That is why, in recent years, the current government of New Democracy, like the previous one, has competed to prove - both in the troika and in the representatives of the construction capital of the major traders of the earth, bankers, etc. - that he's the best student to serve this strategy. It is characteristic of the common concern shared by the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the other parties, outside the JRC, and mentioned this to committees. As they are meeting in the strategic objective of converting the land into a commodity and a profitable investment area, their concern is to speed up the register in view of disbursing the resources of the Recovery Fund. In other words, to ensure a clear landscape, to uncover the blurred property regime that exists in many areas, so that the land can be a profitable way out of the accumulated capital of multinational and monopolistic groups, which are caradouding for investment, especially in the field that today, in the context of the green economy and the green new deal, concerns renewable energy, tourism and tourist villages, private towns, etc. So, what are you trying to do? To facilitate the concentration of the land in a few business hands through the necessary modernization of the land register today. At the same time, the concentration of all property and land rights on a basis that serves the Land register and through the digitisation of today broadens the possibility of the urban state to tax land, immovable property through taxes such as HOPI, the taxation of immovable property outside the urban fabric and other taxes. It is, of course, a public tax, since it is well known that capitalist companies only have a friendly share in tax burdens. It is still a useful tool in the hands of the banks, to endure and bring people's property into the hammer. Therefore, great taxation, and not only, the excessive burden, the dead-ends which have been driven by workers, the self-employed, the bio-populist farmers, will also lead to small and medium-sized property in sales and the auctions, which have been facilitated by the new bankruptcy code. In this way, of course, the concentration of the land in a few hands will step up. The criterion, therefore, which we, as a party, value the Stock Exchange and its role, is not just its scientific know-how, but how it forms part of the given context of capitalist relations, the role it will play in social production, the consequences of its use for the labour-purpose layers. In fact, at this stage the government is attempting to meet the modern requirements of capital. It is trying to speed up the difficult phase of the integration of data, by moving on to this early conclusion with many problematic arrangements, so that it can be exploited by urban policy. And that goes through the digitisation processes. However, this attempt at a fast-track closure of the outstandings that are being attempted in the process of slowing down the realisation process, i.e. before considering the objections, will eventually create much more problems than what is going to be solved. Of course, we are not concerned about the concern expressed by the SYRIZA rapporteur that it will not be possible to create a security for investors and business. We do care, however, about the problems that will arise in small owners, which through all these arbitrary registrations - which often lead to masses of mistakes - are too much to pay for more than the value of their real estate and, in some cases, of course, because of these accelerating and arbitrary registrations are forced and abandoned. There is already very bitter experience from areas where the first registration has been completed, with numerous errors, which, instead of being corrected by the state, without any additional burden, are burdening small owners with new stress and cost. You could, in fact, take care of the immediate and secure effective examination of objections by recruiting more permanent staff, which is missing. These are the figures that the worker's representative has said in consultation and, of course, not only do you not hire new staff, but you are letting the workers' conventions which are already in place and which cover the necessary work in the register be solved. Of course, how are you going to solve - if you want - and a wave of fleeing that can eventually be created because of the intensification of work? With this unacceptable regulation of Article 18, which for two years prohibits the transfer or secondment of officials, including people who really need this transfer. The most important thing, however, is that instead of dealing with these issues, you are trying to fill the huge gaps to permanent staff by privatising these aspects of the Register, namely by making contracts with the Technical Chamber, which in turn will also entrust private functions of the Register or with that institution of the accredited engineer. We, from a position of principle, disagree with this transfer of functions to private individuals, because all these powers had to be carried out by officials, without any extra burden on small and medium-sized owners. To recruit permanent employees of all the necessary specialties that have proved needed in the premises of the Stock Exchange. This would also be a way out for all these scientists and staff, who could, on better terms, work and not with the hostage of services with blocs and short-term contracts and, of course, without making these unjustified exclusions, such as those of Geographical and Topography TE. We, of course, do not enter the process of asking them to join the accredited engineers. We believe that the recruitment process of the necessary qualifications in the register should be opened. Another aspect of the privatization of the property register is the private mediation introduced by Article 8. As a party we have repeatedly expressed our disagreement on the institution of private mediation and, much more, on the obligation of that party, because it actually works at the expense of the weak part of the dispute, like, of course, all the similar procedures of private mediation in justice. The provision you are forced to enter, that the mediation practice should not hide atypical transfer, remain a wishful one and confirms this criticism. Who will really control this, the weak place that has been imposed on him by this informal transfer? What will be forced? He must resort to the courts to insult the practice, to prove fraud, vague terms and so much else. You understand that this is not going to happen. But perhaps one of the most dangerous expressions of the amendments you are bringing to the register today is the regulation of Article 13, in which many aspects have rightly been criticised. These are the cases of correcting manifest errors for the immovable property of an unknown owner. These properties, because they are forest-like or because no one has taken care of them - and because they have been the wrong way in the process of realisation - they are really millions. How are you going to solve the excessive delays that are, in fact, due to this dramatic downsizing of both the Stock Exchange and the relevant critical public services? Enter this arrangement of the public's fictitious consent. In other words, if within 60 days the government fails to respond to the claims, it will be presumed that it has no right. On the other hand, you also give the public the opportunity to respond without justification, but also to put forward real rights without proving it. In both cases this arrangement may have a dangerous effect. Because you understand very well that the sixty-day deadline is really suffocating for the public services, given their tragic commitment. On the one hand, there is, of course, the risk - which has been pointed out by some bodies - of the easy solution to the rejection decision without specific reasons, which will cause problems in particular to micro-enterprises, given the multi-teacher status and public-private rights. However, much greater is the risk of this regulation being used as an easy way to keep the state quiet in cases such as those throughout the country where small, medium and large trespassers are pushing for the recognition of nonexistent property rights to thousands of acres of land. In the context, therefore, of the alliances of the bourgeoisie with the small-scale strata, this is a first-class opportunity to leave the public field of further acquisition of such property rights, even in areas where major mobilisations have been developed in recent years to protect such public land, forests and others. In particular, in the case of forest land, the subordinated Forest Service does not make any progress in sixty days, but not in one year to form the relevant records for the purpose of claiming forest land, which should, in any case, be excluded from the areas where the presumption of ownership is applicable, in other words, the nature of the areas created by the Forest Service will be objectively involved in the respective committees, so you can understand that the whole of the area can also pass through generations until the land owner and the nature of the land is finally resolved. But this is how a new dangerous situation arises, which facilitates the assignment of land, since the government is effectively leaving the process of demanding private individuals open and will decide whether or not to reject their applications and when, of course, the civil state will claim against those who can show his teeth. Of course, they are the major investors, both with money and the possibility of surpassing any obstacles. After all, a similar criticism to the new land register operator, that he works more with a developmental and investment sign and not with a view to safeguarding the property rights safely, has been exercised by many who have no relationship either with the JRC nor with our overall understanding of the property of the land. So, despite what the government says, there will continue to be loose ends corresponding to millions of property rights, while the economic bleeding of small and medium-sized owners will continue, for which the register is and has been genuinely hard, while in other ways, as you do many times, and by legislation you will settle, you will solve problems where there is real interest in large investment markets. Finally, in relation to the articles relating to the National Centre for Audiovisual and Audiovisual Media, we consider that they are essentially conserving the basic direction adopted by Law 4487, which in fact gives investors in this area of art and culture the opportunity to become involved in such regulations on the basis of mobilisation criteria, that is to say, the audiovisual project is only dealt with by its commercial dimension, by the economic sizes of the investors of the area, completely ignoring its cultural and aesthetic characteristics. After the recent adjustments made by the government to the above law, it also goes on with these regulations on the same line. It is true that what we have seen about the role and the nature of the National Centre for Audiovisual and Communications, because neither with the auditors' registers nor with the audit bodies is a different political direction to the body. The measures taken by the government do nothing but seek to create a favourable economic, administrative and overall investment environment for attracting more national and foreign audiovisual productions. At the same time as EKOME plays with tens of millions of euros, the National Film Centre pays only a minimum amount against the twenty-six Greek films long and short, of course leaving workers in the air. It is a pretext that these articles will be voted against, and of course the bill in principle and in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution. We'll close with Mrs. Angeliki Adamopoulou. Then the five colleagues, Dimitrios Kouvellas, Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, Vassilis Kegeroglou, Ioannis Delis, Konstantinos Boubas, will speak and then the Minister will come up in Step. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I really don't know what upsets us and makes us more angry. You really are a tragic situation in your government. I do not know what makes us most angry: the disgraceful way in which you legislate or your misguided admission that 'we are wrong, but have you done so too'? I do not know what is more outrageous, Mr President, that a government here which does not respect parliamentary procedures does not respect parliamentarians, does not respect the other political forces, has we written in its oldest shoes, does what it wants and, instead of apologizing, say that it is the wrong way, does the parliamentary representative of the ruling party have the courage to say in answering this anger of total anti-population that it is not the wrong way, 'just you in SYRIZA did it, what are you talking about?' Really? Is this a serious situation now? Are we talking about a bill with fifty-three articles, and we have a hundred fifty or more articles - amendments? What are the things you do? So you respect the parliamentary procedure, so you respect colleagues elected by Greek and Greek women, who represent a large part of society in this House today, and you really do have us - and I am sorry to say it, Mr Minister - written in your old shoes and the reasoning for this is 'you did it too'? Good! They were outlawing you, too. What are you swinging your head, Minister? You're downgrading your bill. It has fifty - three articles and you brought hundred and fifty articles into amendments. What can we say now? It is time for you to tell us that the rapporteurs have not spent time, Mr President, on the bill, which they have to talk about and talk about other things. Apparently, we're talking about other things. What can we say? About the register? Who's dealing with the register today? This is a mess. Nine amendments so far. By the end, there may be more to come. What can we say now? So, amendments. Let's go see them. With your tactics, we knew - and we speak with evidence - that you really had a master in the "grain" technique to "ladder". Yes, but here we say that the "blue oil" is on fire. You don't stop. We also have Olympic Games, Mr. President. If there was a sport, they'd get a gold medal in the "blemish". From today on, Mr President, Minister, Greece, and officially it is the first state in the world - it has never happened before - that legalises the 'bag'. We have been legitimising the 'packet' since today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u103	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u104	What am I saying? I'll tell you what I'm saying. After the "ladder" with 100 million euros in the media - or wasn't it? - after actually bribery, this humiliating process that you have followed against our youth, our youth with the EUR 150, our horror allowance, here you continue the vote. It's embarrassing and disgraceful! It's not enough for you to be blackmailed with compulsoryity. Now you put thousands of doctors and pharmacists on a payroll, who will be passionately explaining how good the vaccine is and how undeserved the vaccine is. Did you convince one? Ten euros. Are you convinced of someone else? Twenty euros. Did he come to your office too? Fifty euros. Isn't that a "bare"? What's that? 'She's not a doctor? That's how we see it. That's how I see it, guys. You're officially piling him. "Solid" is. If you're going home, 50. Did you go to ten houses? Five hundred. I'm fine. Good. If you consider this to be a serious health policy, we regard it as a bribery of a greedy kind. These are not serious things for a government to deal with the situation. Because we are Europeans and you often call on Europe - what to do? - and Greece stayed behind, let me tell you something: is Denmark not Europe? Is it? Yes, sir. In Denmark, for example, the competent authorities send an email, they ask citizens if they want to be vaccinated and people answer with a yes or no. Denmark does that. Neither pressure nor blackmail nor incorrect means of communication, to convince ourselves of something that they should choose on their own whether or not to do so. So Denmark cannot behave in this way and democracy in Greece does not apply it or have a card to implement it. Democracy must not scare the Greeks. And for the Greek Solution, the only patriotic party within the Greek Parliament, the shade - because there is a shade - of compulsoryity is unacceptable. We've told it to all tons. And finally stop splitting Greeks with a new amendment today and another amendment for teachers. Listen, Mr President, it is interesting. He's talking about the teachers' recruitment, he says in there about the tests, and I'll tell him. And it says in the last paragraph of Article 1: ‘In a decision of the Minister of Education’, this is appalling, ‘and Religious effects may be further determined in the event of a repeated infringement of this case’. So he's doing what the Minister wants. So he can fire already. It doesn't exclude anything. That is what the amendment, one of the nine, says in it. And you're giving the doctors money again. Here the Greek can't make his tax statement because he doesn't have to pay his tax agent and you're sharing money! You're giving more money to doctors. And the more surname he's gonna help this process, the more he goes up the bajette. I won't say about influencer and all that. Of course we don't have money for others. There's money here to score. Money to hire the mother of Myrtus to the Greek Parliament, as recommended by the President of the Greek Solution and the Greek Solution to the President of the Parliament by letter, we do not have one. It's a girl and a family climbing a Golgotha. Or to compensate Katsifa's mother, the happy one, we don't have one for that either. Or pay the drug for the little Panagiotis - Rafael, and that's where the state has money. That's where we're tight. But in other things, we're large. And these are mistakes. Unfortunately, we have been asking you for a long time to stop splitting Greeks. The Greeks must be united in this difficult situation. We'll have to get close to them, talk to them, unite them to get through all this. Don't put democracy in the firing squad. Too many people have lost their jobs. We are in an incredible economic world, which we will all be summoned to raise, with their first Greek citizens. Many of the people who are listening to us now either lost or lost their jobs. And they accept a constant psychological bowling from employers, colleagues, even relatives. You know that. There's too much mail from students, people in productive age, health, old people. I'll tell you something. If you've got a problem with teachers now, why don't you just oil them? Give them there from two or three hundred and say we will give you 200 euros, give you 150 children, you who are older at age will get 300 euros, get the vaccine and finish it, since the method is successful. You've found the trick. What are you sitting down and wasting food on it? Do it, because things are serious. You told us that inconsistent teachers should make mandatory rapid test paid out of their pockets, so should students. Will they give 20 or 30 euros a day to attend a class? How's that gonna happen? So it's good to legislate, but are these measures actually being implemented? Can they be applied? I don't really know. And for schools, we have often told you to do the same thing. In other ways, make school halls safe and not like this, by extortion. We told you - and we talked about it in the bill - to find places for a year and a half, to increase the space, to reduce the number of students, to get single cowardice, as they do in Europe, simple things. A year and a half we didn't do anything about these things. As our schools are, they remain now. We didn't do anything. We believe that you will create more problems. Let's go to the bill. Do you know what this story reminds me of, Minister? It reminds me that we have a messy room, up-down, clothes thrown, toys, garbage coffees, soft drinks, a room up-down and what we do is photograph it and upload it online. We voted for the mess. That's the solution. The room's a mess, up-down is, but I've taken a picture of it, I've got it up online, I've digitized it and it's fine. It's not like that. With various bills that you present as salvation or salvages - for the problem, I mean - and as modernist, you are trying to present work. There's one question. It is not a question of presenting a nice, successful picture with various bills, with ribbons, with heavy characterizations. We're full of words, of theories. And the case of the Greek Stock Exchange is not an exception. It's a huge wound. A project we have been hearing for over twenty-five years that will be implemented, implemented and still waiting. In listening to all the citizens, the employees, the lawyers, the mortgages are disappointed. They've been afflicted for so many years. No one refuses, there is no man in this Chamber to deny that the Register is necessary to complete, to complete the realisation of the ownership of citizens, public and private property. But any modernisation, any digitisation, is not an end in itself, but is a means of serving the citizen. It's something you said, Minister, and we recognize that. However, it is not a question of saying it, but of doing so. You know that, don't ask now how much the Greeks are suffering from the possession services, that the state is chaotic, the deadlines, extensions, thousands of inaccurate registrations, unbelievable procedures that change every three or a few. The truth is that this whole process, the broken ones of this broken system, the rotten system, maladministration, clandestineness, the Greek citizen pays it. The Greek citizen, the taxpayer, who, instead of serving, rather than going ahead with his case, is even more troublesome than the public services. And it's very difficult - if not impossible - that man, poor guy at some point to find his point. Why? For his property. Where'd he get his point? He's forced to go to court. We'll only say one thing. The Athens court is judging for these cases in 2025. What can we say now? Let's digit this mess now. To digitize the mess, and we saved society! What can I say? All these procedures are psycho-corruption, they're time-consuming, court struggles that require money, time. Where can the citizen make this available? The register is inextricably linked to the safeguarding of property, with the protection of property rights. It is necessary to protect and ensure trade against all, to defend the interests of Greek citizens. It is wrong and dangerous to go past and bypass procedures because you, the state, the administration, can't do what it needs to do. And because you can't do it as you should, you're past procedures, you're going past and you're bypassing such procedures. Question: How do you legislate for cemetery without cases being dealt with? How can this be done after the cases have not been dealt with? How do you view the realignment as complete with the display of loose ends? How do you really think the market will move and attract investors? How will one decide to invest, go to buy a building, a property, when he sees it filled with loose ends, with adjacent properties having the same problems or even - the worst - being an unknown owner, not even knowing who it belongs to? With this, then, you are not going to attract investors. The opposite is going to happen. And we're very afraid that the real estate market will fall even further. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress that the New Democracy Government must stop legislating to close loose ends or to comply with the orders of third parties, creditors, Europe and banks, saying 'this is the legislation, I just want to comply'. At some point the government, the state, must legislate, exercise policies and actions in view of the national interests and the interests of the citizens. Mr President, I want to be precise on time, respecting the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u105	Well, you have the tolerance, too, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u106	I know, and thank you, but I want us to respect the time. We cannot shout, annoy that some do not respect the parliamentary procedure and do so too. No, we respect our time and we took advantage of it. We said our objections, we filed them. You will collect a 'no' from us because you are not worth it. We don't trust you. The way you legislate is terrible. You're not respecting anything. So let's go for more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u107	Me too, Mr. Heta. It closes the list of speakers with Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position on the bill, I too would like to say that it is a poor practice that the government is applying to come to over five to deposit virtually nine bills. I am not going to place myself on the amendments to these bills now. I shall speak at the end only for one amendment. The whole of opposition should normally be a long way from discussing the amendments, not just from the vote, because we would normally allow the government to apply bad legislation and we would also agree to them. With regard to the draft law on the modernisation of the Greek Stock Exchange, the bill has some positive elements to which I referred and to the discussions in committee, such as digital facilities, for example. It also has some elements which show that there is good will and good intention on the part of the government, but it is doubtful whether these initiatives will eventually be able to solve the problem or whether they will add a new problem. The bill also has some clear problematic provisions. It is therefore a question of what a bill comes to do when it is part of an already established framework for the operation of a process, such as the process of realisation in this particular case. What is, then, the big and key objective? The aim is obviously to complete very soon and in an excellent way a very important and time-consuming process. In order to achieve this, however, we must first of all prioritise the needs and actions that it will take, namely, to say that we have this objective, that we have these problems, that we put them in a series of importance, that we prioritise and deal with them with the solutions, available solutions, because these are the most effective of alpha, beta and gamma speech. The problems with realisation are that it is a lot and a lot. The resources are limited, so they do not allow us to attack at the same time. So nobody's telling you that you don't solve all the issues is self-sufficient. But there is criticism there is what you are finally choosing to solve as a priority. This, of course, is a question of government policy in general. In other words, it has been found that, despite the overproduction of legislation, there are time-consuming problems in many areas and you do not even touch them. So, let's see some serious loose ends in the land register, which the bill does not deal with, which were also formulated by professionals in the field already in public consultation, so you know them. We are starting, first of all, with the obvious errors and consensus of the public. The public up to now, despite the fact that it has the potential, does not consent to correcting manifest errors and, of course, no head of property office has so far accepted to take this responsibility. What's he asking for? Calls for the adoption of judgments. Indeed, with the testimony of lawyers we have now reached the Athens First Chamber of Monomele to identify applications for May 2024. So you are touching it, but you do not solve it, because you are now throwing the ball at the employee, who will have to answer within sixty days and, indeed, unnecessarily whether or not the public claims the property. It is obvious that once the official does not even have the obligation to justify his reply, the logical thing and the next is that he will respond negatively, that is, he will refuse to consent to the public as to correcting the errors, so he is claiming the property. It is also - and I mentioned this in committee - that the public does not consent here, it simply does not propose its rights. It makes sense, because consensus means agreement with what the opposing party says and it is not, in practical terms, such a thing, regardless of whether it leads to the same result. The next issue is the exceptional use of horizontal property. The acquisition of property by extraordinary use in horizontal property is a very important matter, because it concerns all the old sales channels, which for many reasons cannot be executed and made definitively. So far, the courts have consistently ruled out what they say? That ownership by regular or extraordinary utility is limited only to a established separate floor or compartment ownership, which must, in fact, be included exclusively in a notarial document, which has been lawfully transferred to the mortgage. Nor does it provide for ownership to be acquired on a part or floor of the entire building, even if that part is autonomous and is intended for self-use and exploitation, since it has not been established horizontally in accordance with the procedure referred to above. So what does this mean? It means that thousands of such pledgings, for which there are objective difficulties to be executed by contract, are in the air, as in the air are thousands of apartments which were obtained either by private document or by oral agreement in various parts of the country. You can understand, in other words, what it means to thousands of people not to be able to safeguard their property, which they pay and are paid for for so many years. Here, therefore, you could have anticipated the creation of a horizontal property and a divided section of building, just as is foreseen for the parcels. Open issues also remain in terms of public property exchanges, which are well-known to private individuals for many years, but no one has taken serious care of before the start of the first pilot acquisition programs, when serious problems have come to the surface even in traditional urban areas. I will invoke the example of the Municipality of Kalamaria in Thessaloniki, where in the centre of the municipality there are many such properties, for which, in fact, building permits have been issued, build-up loans have been received, and transfer taxes have been paid, and many families have lived in such apartments. So when Article 4 of Law 3127/2003 introduced utility against the public and tried to resolve the situation, do you know what happened? Since 2019, the public has been conducting a fair trial, claiming entire building blocks, because on December 31, 2021, the deadline for correcting the original records would expire and the public obviously had to safeguard its rights. The problem, therefore, is that what is happening in Kalamaria will spread throughout Greece and as close as the deadline for correcting the initial records is, because the regulation in Article 4 concerns immovable property within a project. There is also a case law of the Ice Bay - it is relevant case law - which complicates things and we will find them in front of us. I am therefore referring to Decision 11/2015 of the Ice Bay: the ten-year or thirty-year-old section laid down by the law to accept the use of public funds should have been completed and exist - here it is the major - when it comes to publishing Law 3127/2003, i.e. existing on 19 March 2003 and not at any time. Or, for example, the ten - year - old half could not be between 1985 and 1995 or the thirty - year period from 1950 to 2002. Furthermore, under Decision 225/2017 of the Ice Bay, the condition of the undisturbed law does not exist if the State submitted a statement of ownership or objected to the registration of the prefecture, or whether it objected to the reversal of the registration of the Prefecture itself. Also, as a fellow lawyer in particular, who has a great deal of experience in the field, does not deal with other well-known issues which harm the various procedures and the realisation itself, such as the ownership status of various non-project real estate in different areas, such as, for example, the area in Sicily, Sithonia, Halkidiki, or villages in Arta. There are a number of themes opened by forest maps themselves, and we have one objection behind the other, the limits of traditional settlements, parking places as horizontal property in pillarers, the millimeters are raised in multi-houses with a exhausted build coefficient, the incorporation into the realisation of property elements arising from the newest laws on arbitrary settlement and regulation, such as n.4014/2011, n.4178/2013 and n.4495/2017. So all these loose ends, Mr Minister, it is certain that you should have found them already, that you had rushed to regulate them. For as long as these loose ends sabotage themselves, they undermine the evolution and completion of realisation. So that is what I meant at the beginning of my speech when I referred to the problem hierarchy. Even if you find some good solutions to individual issues, all I have said is open wounds, which constantly undermine the achievement of the objective. Another such open wound is the sub-secret of the central body of the “ELELANDNIKI KITHOLOGY S.A.”. Since its inception, the employees were called upon to deal with a very large volume of work, to deal with unresolved issues, an unprecedented indeed for the public volume of work, a cemetery where they had not yet started, completion of the existing vet and the transition to the status of the operating register, the creation and operation of real estate offices and branches, absorption of the abolished mortgages and their staff, suspension and supervision of forest maps, allocation of aerial photographs, operation of the tracking system and much more. So all this is implemented with the same human potential as it existed in the old National Register and Mapping, which was borne by administrative procedures, with which it was not fully familiar yet. Three years later, then, the entire agency is literally experiencing what it means to be understood, since work volumes are increasing exponentially with the continuous influx of abolished mortgages, while many experienced and capable executives are forced to leave - mass withdrawal to either the private or the public sector - not withstanding the exhaustive burden and the non-existent motives. Now, then, you come with Article 18 of the bill and you abolish the movement, the possibility of moving staff by transferring, posting or transferring to another service for three years, thus pushing others on the brink of resignation. All this is happening, while the body has more than two hundred and fifty organic posts, which can well be covered by mobility with experienced staff, if - for example - the model of the ADP, which offers an attractive working environment with targeting and wage competence, is followed. That is precisely what needs to be done first, and that is why the right to mobility should not be abolished for the staff of the main office, because many people in the register will be more efficient elsewhere and at the same time other experts, with experience in the administration, will have incentives to cover key posts in the Stock Exchange in the mobility cycles. I left for the end an issue to which I attach particular importance in the debate in committee. I am referring to the unequal and discrimination and the resulting great injustice created to the detriment of graduates of geo-informatics and topography of technology, who lose their right to accreditation. I dedicated my full position to the previous meeting on this issue, because I believe that we should correct - and indeed corrected - some mistaken impressions made at the hearing of the bodies, in which the case-law of the Council of State was relied on, which, at the end of the day, is equally in the interests of these people. And honestly, the choice you make is unjustified. There is no argument to stand up to the conflict and justify the exclusion of these people. And it becomes even clearer when the administration itself has neglected so many years to do what is legitimate, that is to say to define their professional rights. It is, therefore, tragic and irrational that these people, as the Association of Recording Companies itself, should have been practising for twenty-five years the country and suddenly be "outside bridesmaid" with "so I want". I have therefore proposed two ways to deal with this matter in committee. The way in which it is really possible is to make a legislative improvement from home, to include it in the provision of Article 24. And it's really strange, because you haven't taken a clear and clear position so far, because you haven't been placed, because you're still silent. I urge you, therefore, from the Step forward in plenary to take a clear position on this discrimination and on the exclusion of these people. I would like to end by mentioning only one amendment. I shall refer to the others in my dentistry. It is Amendment 1030 of 2016. Here we see that Mrs Méndonis avengerfully flies the workers of the Solidarity Fund by not transferring them to the Ministry of Culture, such as the workers of the day-to-day school. Eight employees will be found without work after years of service. This obviously cannot be accepted! The Ministry has to adopt immediately regulations ensuring the work of the workers. We are therefore voting against Mrs Mendoni's amendment and I support the other amendments in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 30 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 967/22-7-2021, a topical question by MP I of the New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "How was the EFKA led to this mess?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Kilkis of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "In despair, individuals who are active in the open-air protection centres of the elderly (KAPI)". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled "Official information about the growing and repeated seismic activity in the area of Heraklion and prevention". 4. The Question No 966/20-7-2021 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Britain and illegal repropriations for immigrants and refugees". 5. The Question No 968/22-7-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Maria Athanasios to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Dead teachers possess, unknown how, in a special secondary school in Piraeus, where students, not being deaf, can communicate only through a speech with the teachers". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 971/23-2021 topical question by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Directly the need to break down the death of Sfi Valyrakis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 980/26-7-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To permanentize contract workers in the care of the University of Crete". 3. The question by No 983/26-7-2021 of SYRIZA's Deputy Minister of Health - A Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Questionally and reflection after the revelations of the Deputy Minister of Health on irrevocable sentences concerning medical errors and not announced to the medical association concerned". 4. The question by number 981/26-7-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Awards of Archaeologists - Librarians for the operation of the National Library and of public libraries". 5. Under number 984/26-7-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Democratic, unfair and irrational charges for banks against citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises". Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, the circle of speakers will begin after the end of which - there are five colleagues for seven minutes, making us thirty-five minutes, with a small tolerance of forty minutes - the Minister will take the floor. Mr Dimitrios Kouvelas, MP of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the draft law on modernising and improving the operation of the register we are debating today is very important. I remember, Minister, your position in the government's schedule statements in July 2019. You spoke about a four-year plan then and you were very stubborn to commit yourself to the evolution of digital transformation in the public sector in our country in general. Eventually, today we are all experiencing a very pleasant surprise. The government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Digital Governance have proved these two years that we are winning this bet earlier than you imagined, Minister. Greece is now becoming digital jumps, we are not talking about simple steps. More than a thousand two hundred digital services easily and quickly even on every citizen's mobile phone. Soon I refer to the three new ones added today, 'MyAuto' and 'AuditCar', with useful information on each vehicle - they are both a valuable service to owners and to the control bodies of the Greek Police - the MyPhoto service, by which each citizen can send, take a picture of it to public bodies, or sign it, and, of course, the digital handmade signature of the citizen present in the JEP and handles with less bureaucracy and certainly fewer documents and papers. This is progress and speed in practice and not only with wishes, as we used to with many other opportunities. Thus another culture of the state, the citizen, the social worker is forged. We give every citizen to understand that progress, less suffering, more time-consuming profit, money, less bureaucracy, better everyday life are goals which must not have more, different colours or ideological origins. On these issues there is no justification for delays and no field of barren controversy or grumpy. Ladies and gentlemen, special speakers from the anti-population parties, which I have heard before, have made a lot of fuss about things that are technically technical and are in progress to improve them. I'm coming to the land register. It is upgraded with the draft law under discussion in three directions: speeding up realisation, simplifying and digitising the process and, above all, or at the same time - if you want - the security of procedures and ultimately trade. The timetable for full coverage of the Stock Exchange is reduced by about two years, i.e. - and the remaining 65% of the country that is currently under way, until the realisation is fully completed. At the same time, however, trade security is being strengthened, as now the information on each property will be made public with transparency and respect for personal data. Today, prior to the start of a real estate office in an area, a time-consuming and mainly cost-acquisition process is precedented, which can reach four years. In the end, the statistics show that only 2% of the property is objected to by owners, whether for the property or for its legal status. So at this point is the first major change of philosophy. As I have said before, the opening of the register by two years, which is still pending, by secure means of law, of the rights of those who consider themselves to be affected, is stepping up, as I have said, by two years' time. It is also very important to extend the extension until the end of the year 2022 to correct incorrections of the first real estate records. While the forecast was initially at the end of this year, this year - it has, of course, been eighteen months of pandemic, and we know very well what delays it has caused in our lives in general - and, therefore, at the end of 2021, the properties that were acting as an unknown owner would be present to the Greek State, this extension is necessary, it is necessary, it is valuable for citizens to have another year available to check their initial records, to correct any mistakes and thus to preserve their property. Furthermore, the possibility of correcting such inaccuracies by means of the mediation process is introduced, with a profit in time and money for citizens. Before he wanted to correct a registration of an unknown owner, the express consent of the Greek State. The latter, of course, very rarely granted it. With the proposed draft law, the consent of the Greek State will be presumed to be unprotected if, in other words, it passes sixty days and does not object to the Greek State, it is assumed that it agrees to the correction, to the change in favour of the citizen. With the Electronic Property Transfer Folder, the simplification and digitisation of individual procedures related to sales and interconnect the public with operators’ registries, speeding up the whole process and digging more than seventeen certificates, which are currently printed. On the occasion, Minister, I would like to point out that it is very important that both the possibility of concluding programming contracts with the Technical Chamber and the Register of Accredited Engineers is very important to support the updates to the livestock charts, as well as to lawyers. The first programming contract was signed with the Association of Thessaloniki. This is a valuable outsourcing, which will speed up relevant technical and legal controls. But, for now, Minister, things are not so pomegranate in the largest building office in Greece, which is the one in Thessaloniki. When you took over, there were still more than 12 thousand pending applications for registration of acts and certificates. The time for registration of a new supplementary act was more than ten months old. We all understand, of course, what uncertainty and insecurity these times were. Moreover, they are not a brake on trade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask for a minute's tolerance, Mr President. We believe that the good functioning of the Stock Exchange is a catalyst for investment and development. I have been following the issue very closely and ask my former Deputy Minister - whom I will be tabling in the Minutes - since November 2019 I hit the bell for the need for additional staffing of the Thessaloniki Land Office. Unfortunately, the pandemic has established its function. Despite the friendly efforts of the staff and the significant assistance the Thessaloniki Bar Association has been offering for months, the situation is simply being maintained, while the laps in the delays have been reduced by, however, a little. The estimate is that, with integration and transition, there will be very few employees left to serve the needs of the Thessaloniki Land Office, while at least twenty-five are necessary. Here you will need your intervention in collaboration with the "ELLENIC FLOWER S.A.", because today I tell you that, in order to close an appointment at the Thessaloniki Land Office, you must be as lucky as you can win the Joker around. On this entire digital journey that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has apparently started, there are also failures. No one supports the opposite. However, the huge profit is that this journey is evolving very rapidly, the boat travels very quickly, thanks to your systematic work and efforts, Minister, your State Secretarys and your colleagues, and in addition any mistakes that are being corrected at sea, that is, on the move, at a speed of pace. And, of course, I am closing with the saying of July Verne, who had said attributes that technology is also made up of mistakes, but it is so useful that it slowly leads us to progress and to the truth. Thank you very much. I invite you to vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, MP SYRIZA of Dramas, has the floor as soon as the Step is ready. We have to talk about it, because there are Members who are blind, but who do not see it, and so we have been sent it by a kind letter. Sometimes I remember, at least I do, sometimes I don't. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I will confine myself to my criticisms and to the comments made in the first twenty-four articles, which have a purely legal dimension, because the rest have a digital one, for which others are responsible, and the other speakers of SYRIZA will show them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the national register and I think it is an obvious proof of our country's pathogen, because its starting point is in the last century. We must not forget that in 2000 the great scandal of PASOK broke out, with the landmark contracts, the loss of European funding for the land register training programme and the imposition of a fine for our country. Since then, the register has gone through many adventures, and today the Minister wants to close the existing loose ends, without really having to deal with the essential problem that goes through the operation of the register. We all have to agree that the existence of a register is a key factor in the country's fairness and modernisation. It does not mean a country, especially the hard core of the European Union, want to move to the next stage of growth and social stability without a complete - and I stress it - a register. And because we are being heard by the citizens, we have to say a few things relating to the operation of the Land register, because we are not only addressing the familiars and presenters of Jerusalem. Essentially, the property register attempts a huge change in the property regime. In other words, from a recommendation from the Greek state until now, the property was following its owner, now with the Stock Register things are changing irresponsibly and now the property is getting a password. It is the National Register Number Code, on which all changes and all forms of burdens and rights of citizens are reflected. While we could not have known before under the existing mortgage regime, this property that is in the crossroads between the roads and the roads to whom it belongs, but we had to move vice versa, find out who it belongs to to to to see that it is part of its property, now whatever property has a number, has an ID and, based on this number, we look up to the books of the Real Estate and see the existing weights and order of its owners. It's a huge change. It is a fundamental revolutionary change, and that is why we need to approach it with a great deal of seriousness. But what are you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, actually? Today you come exactly, as Mrs Lykoulis has explained in detail - and I will not insist on it - to prevent the deadlines, because you have done nothing in the previous period, and you are baptizing the fish meat, you are integrating all the existing loose ends into the register and you are saying that we have 'completed the register'. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, here we need to make it clear throughout this Chamber, because we are heard by the Greek people that the register is not a digital process, it is a process primarily legal, which has a digital dimension. If you don't realize this, you do a hole in the water. I will set an example for Mr Pierracakis, who is the Minister for Digital Governance. And because we have the Olympic Games, I will say that Mr. Pierracakis is an excellent coach of the shootings you're putting him into the waterball team. He's not gonna make it. It is a purely legal procedure and you must approach it as such. What, then, is the register on substance? It's a real estate sheet. It is the X-ray of the property, in which detail is recorded by the geodetic data, that is, the coordinates of the property, including the property's property rights, weights and weights and the property's owners. If these are not cleared, if they are not undeniable, if they are not imprinted at an unambiguous stage, they will cease to exist. Actually, you're transferring the mortgage problem to the register to prevent the deadlines. Prolong existing outstandings, extend registered objections. I would like to give you an example which my fellow lawyers will understand very well. I'm from Drama. We belong to the new countries and a large part of the property which is locally owned until about the 1990s were transferred with a mere confirmation from the then-secretary, who confirmed that Mr. Xanthiopoulos owns this particular piece of so many acres from his father, who had it from his grandfather and was uninterruptedly remunerated and transferred. You understand that under these circumstances we cannot go to the next phase. All of this needs to be captured in detail, they need to be recorded in a millimetre approach, to know what properties we are talking about and what exactly these properties are. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill you are essentially moving towards further depreciation of the importance of the process of realisation for safe first-time registration. You are jeopardising the functioning of the national register with regard to the credibility and the consequences for trade and the relations of the state with its citizens. This is because, instead of treating these pathogens, you are attempting to further abbreviate the process of ceremonialisation, by ending it already from the stage of posting the veterinary tables, i.e. immediately after the collection and processing of the declarations of census and of the training of censuses, without any control over the quality and correctness of the census data. How, then, will the national register function without the verification of the correctness of this information and what effect will it have on the publicity of the goods and other registered rights and on the security of trade in general? It is not only this problem, as will emerge from the positions, but it is essentially perpendicular to the whole regulation and it strengthens the credibility of a very important institution such as the national register, because, instead of solving the problems, it perpetuates them in the biennial. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Kegeroglu is in a party occupation. He'll be back later. He's holding his name. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece, from Thessaloniki. I don't remember everything! All I remember!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the occasion of my position today, the Ministry of Education's tabling an amendment concerning teachers, in view of the forthcoming opening up of schools in a few weeks' time. You know, though, that pandemic is now developing very dangerously and continues to kill our fellow humans, with its fourth wave to reap, do you think that it is irrelevant to the general political direction that substantiates the health of our people in the profits of business groups, because that is your policy, that is the essence of your policy? No, of course not. The mortality of the pandemic is precisely the result of this policy. It is therefore the government which has sole responsibility for the situation in which the health system in the country is situated. It is the government that has the greatest responsibility for the delay in the vaccination programme, as well as the wild contour of pharmaceutical companies, which have transformed a social asset, as the vaccine should normally be, into a commercial clotsholf and geopolitical tool, instead of this scientific achievement being made accessible to everyone without exception. It is the government that has sole responsibility and that the situation in hospitals remains tragic. A few days ago we had the second stop, please, of electricity here next door, a few meters away, in the "Evangelism" at the largest hospital in the country. It is a typical example. It is the government, of course, which has sole responsibility. You are not talking much about primary health care, that is, about the foundation of every health system. It remains essentially disintegrated and regional medicine in the countryside and health centres are operating due to a lack of staff and resources. And within all of this, at the beginning of the fourth, please, wave and fierce, the Prime Minister comes and announces that we have, he says, more hospitals than we need. Is it or isn't that a challenge? Will you tell me, is this the first? What's the government been doing for two years? So the government does not assume its own central responsibilities, those which all the fighting health workers and trade unions remind it of, those responsibilities that uncovers them every hour and at a time, the nakedness of the public health system, which has not stopped even now from being traded by your political unstoppableness. Not only does the government assume its own central responsibilities to deal with the pandemic, but from the first moment it has transferred and transferred its responsibility to society itself, particularly by targeting young people. And all of this is to hide her own contradictions in dealing with pandemic, when with the 'ladder' protocols, to serve interests in tourism and when with lockdowns, but always with the stacking of people in public transport and so much more. There for the government, it's probably not the coronary. And then she wonders hypocritically, hypocritically, while, as she claims, a terrible, fine plan of vaccinations, that is, recompense, with the well-known and compulsory, because doubts remain outside the world and why irrationalism finds so much ground and different comoyanites find a significant audience. The answers, gentlemen of the government, will be found in your own policy. At the same time, of course, the great employer does not sit with cross-referenced hands and exploits government policy and literally unleashes out in many large businesses. Employers are threatening sues and redundancies for those who are not vaccinated and who do not carry out diagnostic tests, which even calls on workers to pay them from their pockets. It is not enough, that these gentlemen take no steps to protect the health of workers, that they have refused and are still refusing to give their workers and the self-tests, now they are asking for the change from above. And while the health protocols in force in the tourist regions, which are already in force, have, as you know, been transformed into centres of virus transmission, the government is once again targeting workers. In fact, when the government hears from their workers and unions to call upon her to take measures to protect their health, this government translates it into terrible and threats again against workers. That is exactly what the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Education in today's bill does, as if the Ministry of Education had not had its own bill for a month. What if months of teachers, parents and students are now asking the government to take steps to ensure that schools operate safely, with school departments diluted and with more rooms? And of course there are plenty of them if you want to find them. But if you want to! Because, if you don't want to, you can't find them! These concern the majority of teachers, who of course need and are thousands of undetermined teachers out there, with the permanent staff of cleanliness being constantly present in schools, as long as they are working, and of course, with all the tests, but which will be provided free of charge by the EAFRD, to teachers and students, so that, in addition to others, the circulation of this dangerous virus is monitored and traced. And be scientifically traced and supervised by the state itself. The language and our language in this House have been hairy enough to ask you for all this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in a minute. What are you guys doing? Not only do you shut your ears, ladies and gentlemen of the government, against all these logical and necessary things, but you also bring an amendment, the one tabled by the Ministry of Education yesterday, and you also ask for the change from above the teachers, threatening them even if I am fired. Who are you telling, gentlemen of the government? To those who kept the training upright in the quarantine? To those who have not been sadded for any time or trouble or expenses to keep in touch with their students, when could you of the government not operate a single school network of pre-schooling? Leave many children in popular families in digital poverty. So, are these teachers going to charge now and the cost of expensive molecular tests? Because it is now known that the vaccinated ones are also stuck, which I think you know well there in the government. To these teachers, as you do for all the employees, are you going to load your own exclusive responsibility to open the schools in a few weeks safely? Are you serious? Well, don't you know that teachers have one of the highest vaccination rates? Did you forget that they were the same people who asked you to be vaccinated in the past few months by priority? But you and your policy were then giving the dropper vaccines, so that today the rate of immunity lies where it is, low. And what again is this about the three-month contracts of teachers? New industrial rubber beans? And your horror, you talk to us about the long-term, he says, your designs in education. Every three months the kids will change teachers? What do you think schools and education are? Passing centers? So take this challenge amendment back, as you take, of course, and all the measures that are needed are now, early, timely. You know, we've talked about it! And to open the schools safely in September coming, finally strengthen the public health system, hospitals and health centers, and stop threatening the finger on the workers. The fourth wave isn't joking. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u115	I close with my most senior colleagues with Mr Constantine Bubas from the Greek Solution. Immediately after the speech, Mr. Pierracakis will be called. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is important. It's about recording the real estate in Greece. And now there are sins of the past. And that is where you should draw attention so that they do not recur. "The bishop has sinned no man of wisdom"! So, National Register. When it started in 1995 in Greece, mistakes are repeated in many contract agreements. Europe, therefore, has been moving fast. In the Netherlands, for example, the digitisation of the National Register was completed in 1985, in Italy in 1991, in Bulgaria since 2009, which is a Balkan peninsula, and we are still being blocked. What's going on now? If you look at history, this attempt began in 1836 on Otto, to record agricultural property in 1923. Then, the rural clergy in 1939 began an effort for the forests in 1976 by the country’s first governor, John Kapodistrias. We are the only country in Europe that we did not have and do not have in essence yet, we have not completed them, forest maps. And we suddenly see houses planting in woodlands or forests being proprietary, of course, of the Turkish domination. See, for example, the forest in Vourvourou Halkidiki. The only areas then mapped and recorded were Leros, Rhodes, Kos, that is, the Dodecanese, and that was in 1930, because they were in possession of the Italians. It is Law 2308/95 which has been amended since 2664/1998 and became the ‘Register S.A.’. To tell you it all, in 2001, the Community Commissioner Michel Barnier imposed a fine quite high on Greece because, since then, thirty-five thousand square kilometres of land had to be landed, only eight thousand four hundred forty were landed. We spent EUR 276 million that came from the European Union instead of EUR 130 million that was the predicted, and we returned, we paid high fines, because Europe lost its trust, we were told by Michel Barnier, because we are not moving on to real estate. The sin continues, because we go to the second and third generation, in 2001, it was the second generation, in 2011 and 2013, and a competition is cancelled and reverted in 2016. 2017 seeks to link with the E9 of the TAXIS and 2017 - I do not know what is going on with this issue, Minister - it is the other big issue, with the ratification of the Ayalos in Greece, and that is where we pay accidents, see Matty, etc. What about the sanctuary's trespass? Will the new digital land register be curated in the new digital era of the new world technology for the cavalry, which is very important? The cavalry and his trespass. Since, however, we tend to give several companies the competitions, there was the opportunity to go into double objections. That's why we didn't deal with all of this, and the point is, we're dispersing a stress in the world right now. The world is still confused. He thinks that because he has no title of ownership, property title, or because he has no topographic chart, he doesn't go to the Register because he's theoretically illegal and he's afraid. It still hasn't undone this climate that it's just recording. He thinks he's connected to the tax office, the law of arbitrary men, the alpha, the beta, and there's the problem. There are articles, such as Article 46, which do not specify this cooperation. You know we in the Greek Solution, we've told you there's still no record from non-governmental organizations. There's a question mark here. Can the National Stock Exchange even work with NGOs on a number of issues? With regard to Articles 44 and 45, 5g aerial placement still differs from the views of scientists if the new technology of 5g affects the environment and man. We are still at a study stage, we cannot go to this new technology when we do not yet know the conclusion of scientists, whether the 5G antenna are harming our health and, by extension, the environment. Wasn't the Prime Minister cut off with the exculpation of the environment? There is also the other environmental pollution, which can be done by so-called clean energy, see nuclear energy, see radioactivity, see electromagnetic radiation, as happened, 5G. There is now a matter. A letter was sent by the professional and scientific committee for the training of technicians, for their rights, because, without warning them - in Article 24, Mr. Minister, Mr. Schoula, throw them out, T.E. Because you only give the right to agronomists, topographers, engineers of the polytechnics. The university level is everything. How can these geo-informatics topographers be accredited, however, to give topographic charts for so many years in the National Register and now their legal and professional rights are not guaranteed, which is not their responsibility, but according to European Union legislation is responsible for the Greek state to recognise their professional rights, so on one night you are throwing them all out? You throw them, the topographers, the geoinformatics topographers, who have been accredited to give the topographical charts for years. Then did they do us? Then they were good, and now we haven't recognized their professional rights for 30 years, and we're throwing them out? And they were in the consultation and you didn't warn them. And, indeed, he was in consultation and you didn't warn them. You've regained them, unintentionally. It is unwarranted, because they will have a great professional problem for their survival, based on their scientific training. Because, they may be TE, but they have studied the subject. They've been specialized for four years. You know, because my father was a topographer, topography has another scientific field. You're either a topographer or you're not. You either know from landmarks or you know from topographic chart printing. I don't have anything with the political engineers and the agronomists, but that's where they only have two lessons. So that I do not get too far, and I want you to see it, Mr Minister, about what will become the topographers and computer engineers who have done to you for so many years - or water buffaloes - and now, overnight, they are being allowed to run aside. I'll hang up with something that only in Greece can happen. There are tolls in Derveni, Thessaloniki, on the road to Lagada, open. At night the world pays a price, and the day is closed. It's a toll of night clubs! I don't know, this could be a global originality. Why? Wrong placement at this point some time ago, they worked in the first two days, became a three and a half-kilometre car queue, they are on a shift that the drivers are developing high speed, up to a hundred miles, because that knot was thought to be wrong at night and are closed from 7.00 a.m. to 22.00 a.m. in the morning. If you spend the night, then you pay. If you're going through a day, it's free. Because they understood the danger. The question is who pays for the studies carried out on tolls and built there? What does the Minister responsible say on this matter? The Greek people pay them? That's humiliating. I have the statements by the District Director of Central Macedonia, Apostolos Djitzkostas, from the Serres Television Network, which I will submit for the Minutes, to see that these strange and comedian tolls with tolls that operate only at night and day are free, only in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u117	Minister Pierracakis has the floor and immediately thereafter, in order to support their amendment, the reason will be taken by the Deputy Minister Mr Petsas, whom I have informed of the matter that I have told you and unanimously all of you have adopted, and I am sure he will give the appropriate solution. The Minister will also have the relative tolerance, in addition to the eighteen minutes laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I'm saying that in advance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin by reading you an excerpt from an old Gender of the Government's Journal: "All immovable estates of individuals, municipalities, charities, churches, monasteries and unions, with the exception of all national and those in rent, want to register books on purpose, so-called real estate registers." Journal of the Government of the Kingdom of Greece, 1836, signature: Good Lord of God, King of Greece. It's the first record, a hundred and ninety-five years later, we're talking about the Stock Exchange. So it is something that the time has come for it to be completed as a matter of urgency. The need for a land register in the country was first formulated at the time, we are, if you like, with the legislative initiative, which we are presenting today in our judgment at the beginning of the end of this pending. And it really is a great deal of loose end. [[At this point, the Minister of State and Digital Governance, Mr Kyriakos Pierracakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] For example, if you take the 1995 law, in 2308, this law has been amended about forty times. About twice a year. It is one of those cases where the numbers speak for themselves and to be here today, to discuss how it will be completed for as soon as possible, it goes without saying that something we have not done properly as a country. We need to change something. And when one has to make changes, these changes should not only be in the way, they should be in philosophy. It must also be in the mechanism, that is, through which you come to intervene in things, and that is exactly what we are pursuing with the first part of the draft law currently being put into your judgment. Having identified those points that cause the greatest delays, we are intervening targeted to speed up the transition to a real estate register and we are doing so by simplifying unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and strengthening those that shield both the public and the interests of the citizens. Let me begin with this, from the first point that I mentioned, which is what the rapporteurs have mentioned before in detail, this change of philosophy. We are speeding up the transition to a register. We do, by switching to the most time-consuming stage, the examination of objections from the pre-procedure to the stage after the operation of the register. The procedure will now be as follows: Statements are made, the first suspension takes place, the period of objections, their registration is completed, and immediately thereafter, the area is then passed on to an operating register. Any objections will be reflected on the margins of the stock-paper, they will be dealt with in a regular manner. The decision will also be entered in the relevant stock records. This has many benefits. It's benefiting us as far as speed is concerned. It reduces by about two years on average the timetable for the operation of the register. It is due to the facilitation. Whatever area we have, increasing this 35% in which we are now increasingly in, it will also be part of the new digital services in the register, which we have announced a few months ago. Currently in ktimatologio.gov.gr one can, depending on his professional status, have access to a number of digital services for 35% of the real estate. Depending on whether he's a lawyer, an engineer, the citizen can see things about his property. This is 35% constantly increasing, so the usefulness of this tool will also be increased. But not only must the range be increased, but the depth must also be increased. And here - it has been mentioned before - there is the work of digitisation in the Recovery Fund, which is essential. It will increase, in other words, the depth of the data already existing in this piece that has been acquired, as well as in the rest of it. It is something that costing is obviously in line with and with whatever new tools are constantly added, it has been done by the World Bank. The whole process of digitisation is also changing. A few years ago, when we were talking about digitalization, we were basically talking about photographs. The photos aren't very useful. We need data. It has to go through the paper in basic information and, in order to do this, there are new tools that we use. Therefore, in general, the register with this mechanism, with a cumulative strategy both of the draft law and of the new services that have been put into operation for a few months and of the new tools for digitisation and information systems, which we now have the great opportunity to obtain, using the Recovery Fund, is being completed. I would like to say in relation to speeding up the operation of the register in the way we are describing, that it also benefits in terms of security of trade, because now all the information is concentrated on one point, it brings all the information to the surface. This is something that is of great value. This idea is not new. We won't claim the paternity of the idea. We are claiming its application, if you like, the paternity of its application. Since 2011, the institutions, the SRSS in particular, had given technical assistance to Greece and within the text of technical assistance - which I shall be tabling in the Minutes - said among others that the process of ceremonisation - I translate from English - should focus, in order to prove ownership, on the collection of data and not on waiting for all cases to be closed. All cases can be concluded later, if necessary, through the use of mediation or judicial intervention, and so - it says at the end, at the end, the Dutch experts' suggestion of SRSS - new approaches, different approaches, with the acceptance of different criteria must be adopted, precisely because, as it says at the outset, the first entry has proved to be too long and must be made more effective. [[At this point, the Minister of State and Digital Governance, Mr Kyriakos Pierracakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] That is, if you like, the expert approach. That's what we adopt. We are, of course, adopting it, as I said at the outset, in the context of a philosophical approach, a philosophical change. We are generally seeking to do this in what we have tried to do at the Ministry, to avoid the decaying effect that blocks the completion of a project, because the individual loose ends hamper the whole, its overall application. This is something that is very intense as a general thinking in the culture of programmers. It is not so intense in public works, but it is something that is gradually happening around the world. For example, if we were to follow the philosophy of waiting for the perfect structure, it would never have been the gov.gr. We would expect the perfect gov.gr, which would have waited for all the procedures and would not have entered the process of building the service - service, gathering the first five hundred ones that were in existence, going from five hundred to two thousand and building something new at all. The logic of "all loose, otherwise nothing solved" is a logic that has been proven not by us, but by life, not by success and has been judged in the Hellenic Register as ineffective. In the case of the register, and the enclave in the practice of the small pendingness that blocks the project as a whole has done nothing to prevent any progress being made. He made it, to say it in terms of the responsible State Secretary, who from Arta, as a modern "bridge of Arta". In order to overcome this challenge we have systematically worked and today we are practically presenting a new conception. Obviously, this new concept fits every proposal for a technique, every approach that we could always see this new structure working better. However, the strategy is threefold: Acceleration, facilitation, transparency and founded on the whole approach. Our aim and I believe that what will give a comprehensive identity and seal to the work and move above all, because that is the main objective, is the integrated part and not the one that will be left behind and which, moreover, will be in a parallel process of transparent resolution. In this very functional and complementary way, the register will gradually become more and more available and efficiently useful for society and the economy, for professionals, for workers and, above all, for citizens - owners. However, there are many other points that need to be mentioned in this draft law. Secondly, we facilitate property owners who have been designated as “unknown owner” to correct the false registration. We do, by turning the public's explicit consent into a pretext with the insolvent expiry of sixty days from the notification. More than just a facilitation, this provision is a message that the relationship between a state and a citizen is gradually changing and changing in the interests of the citizen. Thirdly, we are encouraging out-of-court dispute settlement procedures. This is done in two ways. On the one hand, we make express provision for tenders for out-of-court settlement procedures, and we oblige all the ceremonies to accept the relevant transactions. On the other hand, we are introducing a compulsory first mediation session in order to give at least an opportunity for a friendly solution. Fourth point: Restructure the structure of the register in order to be more operational. The relevant State Secretary, Mr Stylis, will be mentioned in detail in the individual provisions, each of which is of paramount importance in order to be able to base his argument on why this intervention is indeed the beginning of the end of a great loose end. Fifth point: Electronic Property Folder. I would like to say here that we are not adding bureaucracy. There's probably some misunderstanding. There is a dimension of interoperability in public documents. Interoperability means being able to draw information from other registers automatically, with the consent of the citizen. So no one says that the papers, whatever certificates are in paper form, should be released in digital form. That's what happens in some cases. Here the aim of this regulation - and I say it from a step - is the notary who will have this application to be able to draw from all available public databases all the elements that he needs automatically. What is this information we can discuss in detail. But once they're drawn automatically what have we won? We've won a lot of physical visits that won't be done. That's the target. The World Bank - because it was mentioned before - what is it looking at all these things? It looks essentially on the one hand at the path of realisation in Doing Business, but, above all, it looks at the steps and the suffering of real estate transfers. It's a big deal. We had been approached to the Ministry since the first day to simplify the procedure by POMIDA, other bodies. So what do we say? We say, first of all, that there is a stop to the notary and that there is a system that can draw all the elements that people would otherwise have to get with visits. That's a big step. If we accept that we have about 17 certificates which today citizens have to take over ten steps in the World Bank register, when the world average is 4.7 steps and that affects our assessment internationally, I would say that this is also a great need for it. The need is not to always be better recorded in international indicators. It is good, welcome, but the great need is founded on the field, it is founded on the need for citizens and entrepreneurs themselves not to be troubled with transfers. So it's an important step. Of course, like all steps, it will be judged in practice, in how we implement it in the field, but as experience has shown in all the applications developed by the Ministry, step by step - there is a philosophy of lasting improvement and lasting results in the field that speak for themselves and much better than we do. In view of this, many concerns have been raised by the rapporteurs for regulation on the register. I use the term 'problems' because many of the issues do not relate to this bill, they concern the process more widely, such as forest maps. We have heard that the final records will be delayed. That's a guess. It's not based anywhere. On the contrary, we have good reasons to believe that the process will be made faster, because we have more tools to resolve disputes, which are incorporated into this law. We have heard that there will be more doubts. This speculation is not based on any element either. On the other hand, there is good optimism that the operation of the register will encourage fewer disputes and faster solutions, because with the Land register in operation there will be an incentive to close the loose ends more quickly so that it can be exploited much better. We heard there'd be a lot of records on the stock records. Yes, there will be. What is the alternative now? The opacity, the things under the carpet, under the table? All in the light. That's what computers do in her good. Transparency and transparency, so everything comes to light with this system. We have heard that the new procedure for the presumption of consensus in the public sector will give birth to a denial industry. There is always a chance that there will be many denials. No one refuses that. But here, what are we supposed to do? To find a new state-citizen balance, a new balance between the protection of the citizen against abuses by the public and the protection of the public against abusive claims by mistrusted citizens. Today we are taking a first step. If the public services do not take advantage of this step in the way we want, we will be taking further action. Legislation is a dynamic process. We are making a constant move and we are constantly interfering with things. Let me also have a more general remark. The answers we have so far given as a state to these intrinsic concerns around the register have defined its destiny. By pursuing exhaustive interventions in the process, we ended up in a pharaonic and stiff design. Our own approach to the register has design elements of an electronic process. The emphasis on hard goes to the right and on the right the emphasis is on recording it, on coming to the surface. So we emphasise the creation of a service that meets all the basic functionality specifications and then constantly build new elements depending on the data we record from its use. This means that we have the tools, legislative and technical, to speed up procedures, to effectively inform the citizens, to resolve the disputes immediately and fairly and to complete the realisation. The estimate there is is that with this tool, with this new law, next year from 35%, we will be at 55% and a year later, we will approach 90% and we will finally have closed this loose end. I think that's a welcome thing. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is no exaggeration to say that the history of the register is identical to all the legislative procedures concerning the Greek state, and I think it is sufficient to consider how many times in this Chamber colleagues have had the opportunity to discuss this issue with other parameters and how many times the members of this composition have been called upon to legislate on the issue of the register. At the beginning of its modern phase - it was heard before - the Register was marked as the largest project. We can say that at the moment it is the greatest openness. It is time for the country to return page by closing its accounts with the past. Putting the register into operation we are taking a crucial step. A number of critical steps have to be taken in many areas, because the goal is ultimately to put the country on the move and, indeed, to move on. With this thought I invite you to vote in favour of the draft law you have in your hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u119	The Minister didn't even take out his time. He had it encoded. I will now give the floor for three to four minutes to the Deputy Minister, Mr Petsa, to present his amendment and to one representative from each party, if necessary for clarification, I will give the floor to the Minister. Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u120	I'll try to be brief. Before I say the main issues of the amendment, I would like to refer to the point you have raised. I understand that we have a decision of the Court of Auditors. Of course, there is no reason for me to comment on the Court of Auditors' decisions. From there on, what I can say is that the legal basis presented by the Municipality of Kalymnos will be reviewed in order to find the best possible legal treatment and, of course, we pay tribute to these people and in no case will there be a burden on the heirs or the municipality for this action.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u121	On behalf of all the wings we welcome it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u122	What was the decision? He said 'we'll consider'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u123	Court of Auditors as unduly paid. I've zeroed the time. You're starting at the beginning, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u124	As far as the amendment is concerned, I would like to say that it concerns basically our interventions related to the coronary and the protracted impact on the functioning of the economy and, of course, on the local authorities. Such interventions are like Article 2 that we extend the validity of the decisions of the PHS 33/2006 Committee on Recruitment. It is Article 4 concerning the transport of pupils and in the school year 2021-2022. It is Article 6 on fixed-term private-law contracts to address the needs of the ATOs because of the coronary. It is also Article 7, as withholding first-degree loans from the Deposit Fund, in which I will return a little more thoroughly. They are also the issue of authorisations for municipal day-to-day children and the regulation of budget issues in Article 9. Allow me, Mr President, to refer a little more specifically to certain articles, in particular Articles 1, 3, 5 and 7 of the amendment. In Article 1 we have the amendments aimed at regulating, in particular, technical issues relating to the cleaning of school units in the public institutions of Vocational Training and the second opportunity schools. In particular, it clarifies the way in which the staff in question are covered, and the transitional provision for the recruitment of cleanliness staff of the IMIEC and IBC is established and ensures the continued provision of services by experienced and qualified staff, with the exception of the limitations laid down in Article 6 of Presidential Decree 164/2004. As regards Article 3, we have the 'Harmonization of family and working life' action which takes place during the programme period with annual implementation cycles of ten months, covering the period of the school year of day-olds from 1 September of each year to 31 July of the following year. The value of participation of the beneficiaries, that is, voucher, incorporates all the operating costs of the structures in the provision of their services. In particular, with regard to the staff of the first-degree ATT structures participating in the ‘Municipal Infant Posts and MSFs and MSFs’ programme, this staff shall be recruited by the bodies under Article 38(2) of Law 4765/2021 by means of fixed-term contracts of 12 months and shall carry out annually a renewal of their staff contracts so that they may participate in the next cycle of implementation of the programme and thus provide their services to the benefiting mothers. At the inspection stage by the AACC of such requests for the first degree of recruitment, two topics were raised. Firstly, as regards the duration of the contracts, this cannot be 12 months in the light of the length of the cycle of implementation of the action which is identical to the school year, i.e. 11 months and, secondly, that it is not possible to renew the contracts of employment, since each cycle is different from the previous one. In this interpretation, however, practical problems arise in the implementation of the action, since in the case of 12-month contracts, the designated staff would be authorised during the provision of the services, and the absence of it would raise a question of the proper functioning of the structures in relation to the permits for their establishment and operation, but would also pose a risk of delays in their participation and of the implementation of this programme in the event that the TAs would have to issue new staff recruitment notices per cycle. It is therefore necessary to allow staff recruited or recruited under IORP contracts in the context of that action to be employed for up to 12 months with the possibility of renewing or extending until the end of the actions excluded in any case the recognition of such contracts as an indefinite period. I would remind you that this is an action financed by the NSRP and such a renewal is foreseen. As far as Article 5 is concerned, we have the regulation for the management of LAG development companies to give greater flexibility to such bodies, which are managing and exploiting multiple funding programmes and investment operations, especially at a time when, after many years, we have had enough funding tools in our hands to boost development, boost the local government agencies. With regard to Article 7 - and I am closing down, Mr President - this regulation suspends the retention of instalments of loans granted by the Deposit and Loan Fund to LGDs with the ultimate aim of facilitating them in the light of the exceptional circumstances created by the pandemic measures. The payment will be made at an interest rate of twenty-two equal monthly instalments starting from January 2022. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u125	I'll go backwards. I will ask each of the rapporteurs or Parliamentary representatives whether they want to ask a precise question. Mrs. Adamopoulou? He doesn't want to. Mr. Villards? Oh, no. Mr. Karathanasopoulos? Oh, no. Ms. Ligolia, would you like? Oh, no. I'm coming to SYRIZA. Mr. Famelos wants it. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Petsas, I would like to ask you why the Ministry of Interior is choosing to bring us a five-page amendment to nine non-relevant articles last minute before the House closes for the summer, since some of these issues concern regulatory functions, serious regulatory functions such as the transfer of students you committed to a year ago that you will solve this? And I would like to tell you in particular what the problem is that is created and what you have to give us your opinion. The main content we see is the subject of contractors. Why are you attempting to extend contracts and to cover issues of permanent and permanent needs of the municipalities in structures - which you said - such as day-to-day stations? And you said about permanently renewed annual contracts. The first question arises in institutional terms. You have an article in it, a condition that these arrangements are not subject to the restrictions laid down in Article 6 of d.d.164/2004. So you're telling us practically that the presidential decree of Paulopoulos does not apply. Are you actually trying with this amendment to exclude a large group of contractors from the Presidential Decree of Pavlopoulou to be permanently hostage, while at the same time there are standing and constant needs that are not covered and you have no intention of covering them? Do you want to create, renew a regime in the public that the Presidential Decree of the former President of the Republic and of the Minister of the Interior, the Governments of the New Democracy, has established? Is it an institutional issue that we ultimately want to know what the view of the Ministry of the Interior is or have you backed up and changed after the policy mix you now have in the system of authority of Mr Mitsotakis? In cleansing staff, the main question is that, Mr President. As far as the issues of nurseries are concerned, I think they are the same. You mentioned it yourself. So there is a question about the recruitment of regular staff and why you are being delayed so, two years you are government. We haven't heard of a setup. But I would like to insist on the transfer of the students. You are bringing us an article copying Article 33 of Law No4713/2020, and even when the New Democracy Act recital had provided for the imminent replacement of the existing legal framework in order to resolve the matter definitively. Do you admit that you are not able to resolve the matter permanently? You're putting down the guns? Is that it? Is this an acceptance of this amendment? While you committed yourself to a law which says in Parliament's minutes that you will be permanently solved and you will come and say that we are unblocking the commitment before a year is closed? That's a matter. And for the fifth article I would like to ask you a question with the experience of managing a municipal development company for many years. You told us - you said this here, I want you to see the Minutes shortly before you left here - that you want to improve the flexibility of the development agencies that you have already arranged to be flexible and out of control, and with Mr.4674 and Mr.4735. I would like to say to you, Mr Petsa, that the flexibility is the one we have recently found in the last sixteen months from the two hundred and seventy thousand public contracts, the sixty-four thousand being awarded? Is that the flexibility of the Mitsotakis government, not to make competitions? Have you done development agencies to escape the technical services and the functions of OTAs, to assign projects and commissions to see that they have been distributed directly for EUR 1.9 billion? And you come and say you want to improve flexibility? Because you said so. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So here, Mr President, they are questions which obviously do not have an answer. Because you obviously cannot admit that all of this is to be given direct assignments to friends or to work outside contests, as well as to maintain armies of contractors because you do not make tenders for fixed and lasting needs on the one hand because you have an ideal in serving the public and, on the other, because you want to support people - hostages who have to take their place where they deserve them. And you are bringing all this up at the last minute without having the courage of legislating, consulting and discussing the committees. It also shows the political size of your government how to legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u128	Would you like to ask a question, Mr Bukkoro, about the amendment that Mr Petsas supported?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u129	Obviously, Mr President, when you succeeded your predecessor, there was no proper information. We said we'd do from a circle of questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u130	My predecessor barely informed me that only Mr Famelos wanted to ask questions. None of the rest of the Parliamentary representatives had declared their wish, the intention to intervene or, anyway, to ask and I would give the Minister the floor to answer. So where's the steak? I don't deny you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u131	Does this debate make any sense, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u132	Yes, but you are causing him and the Bureau has to answer. They can't hover in general. I have not removed your floor, I give you the floor, and I explain to you how the process was drunk by the predecessor. So neither to me nor to the predecessor. You want to ask something? You know the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, does it make any sense now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u134	It's questions. Do you want to ask the Minister questions? We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u135	Does that make any sense?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u136	Of course it makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u137	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u138	If it didn't make sense, why did you intervene like this? Say that you want to ask questions about the amendment. I give you the floor to ask questions. Everything else was superfluous. But you caused them. You have the floor for the questions you want to ask the Minister. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u139	In any case, Mr President, I am impressed by the fact that there are no good reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u140	Look, don't put oil on the fire. Don't be selfish. We expect you to table the questions in Mr Petsa's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, am I the one who asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative, or are I the ones who teach me a seat lesson?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u142	If we don't understand the first one, we don't have to repeat things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u143	Minister, it obviously does not understand from the standpoint of the Opposition that some extensions should be given to the conventions. Obviously we do not know that there are tourist municipalities with enormous needs, that pandemic is still evolving and that the first and second degree agencies should not be weakened. And I hear about contracts with friends, but only yesterday we were informed of something that came to the public on the initiative of justice for 8 million directly assignments to some ERIC and everything else. To talk about direct awards and direct contracts when cases are in justice, we should be more careful. I would like to ask you about the 6th and most contractors if it relates to all the first and second grade bodies, and whether it concerns all the workers who ended their contracts up to 10 July and may be renewed until 30 September after there has been a two-month renewal. And if this is not the case today in the last bill the House is discussing, I wonder when it will be, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u144	No one other than the Parliamentary Representatives wished. Mr. Pecha, you have the floor. Three minutes, Minister, with a slight tolerance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u145	Yes, Mr President, I will be brief. Obviously, as far as the questions Mr Famelos raised are concerned, what can I say? Maybe he's the only one in the country or on the planet who doesn't realize we have a pandemic and we've been fighting for the last year and a half. Most - I have explained - of the amendments concerning deadlines, with issues relating to COVID. So, what were we supposed to do? Whether we should have predicted when the pandemic would end and legislate at a time when we will know that the pandemic will be over or that we should extend the deadlines we have set here in this House. That is what we do in most of these provisions. With regard to Article 1, however, which you have insisted on with regard to the relevant Presidential Decree, what we are doing is that we do not change anything in the article. We allow those who worked last year to reapply for it, because it was down to limiting the quarter that placed this presidential decree. We therefore limit the ban to two months in order to resolve this issue. I don't see anything special. Don't find ghosts everywhere. As far as the transfer of students is concerned, do we not understand that half the school year last year or more did we not take lessons? Shouldn't we resolve this? Did we know we're going to have to deal with this? We are dealing with it and we are not dealing with exactly what you said, because if you read the relevant article, you will see that we are also able to negotiate where a new procedure cannot be extended on the basis of Article 32. Why don't you just say that and say the other thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u146	Expansion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u147	As far as the issues you say about development agencies, commissions and others are concerned, there are no such things and if you want to discuss seriously, we should see whether there is at the moment the framework which will enable local authorities to take advantage of all the financial instruments available to it. Is there? Oh, no. Now we're trying to fix it. There's no technical services in the adequacy that he should have. So we have development agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u148	You don't leave them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u149	You don't hire people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u150	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u151	If you want, you can listen. None of you interrupted you. We are trying to build this framework in order to be able to be financed by projects, not only the "ITONISM TRITY" of the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Recovery Fund and the NRV, that is to say, tools totalling more than EUR 72 billion and not available in the previous decades. What do you suggest? Losing them from a lack of staff or flexibility in the preparation of studies or in the implementation of such investment projects? We're not doing you a favor. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Pecha.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u153	There's an unfinished one from the previous circle. Does Mr. Kegeroglu want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u154	Anyway, the turn I found by Mr. Kaklamanis is first to give the floor to you, Mr. Femello as a parliamentary representative, then to Mr. Bukoro as a parliamentary representative, and then to Mr. Kegeroglou. If you want another type of show or change in the meantime, I have no objection. Just before we begin the talks, we will give the floor to Mr Hardalis to support an article in Amendment No 1036 on regulation of health services, but obviously has the Ministry of Civil Protection and an article in it. You have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u155	Two minutes, Mr President, I will need full respect for both your time and your tolerance. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 13 of the Ministry of Health's amendment entitled 'Provisions on the National Mechanism for the Management of Crisis and Risks' comes to heal and improve the existing framework for direct actions by the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. In particular, Article 54 and paragraph 3 of Law 4662/2020 remind you that it was provided for in the case of urgent need, for which the immediate adoption and application of measures on national security matters was required or the possibility of protecting public health and life of citizens, property and the protection of the natural wealth of the country, the possibility of the General Secretariat to conclude new contracts and to amend existing works contracts by way of derogation from any provision of Law 4412, as is the case. The above possibility was not later explicitly provided, although it was in force and was not included in the exceptions to Article 325 of Law No4700/2020, which was voted on here in Parliament, creating a latent ambiguity regarding the scope of its scope. After all, in consultation with the Court of Auditors - and I would like to stress this - we have tabled this amendment with a view to the full rationalisation of the procedures. So, with paragraph 3, every issue of ambiguity is fully cleared up and - I want to stand by it - we are also taking another step. With paragraph 2, we are limiting the possibility of using Article 54 to 2 000 000, and we are referring to all the most of this amount of contracts, which I would like to remind you otherwise that the clearers of the Commission's services are being controlled under compulsory repressive control in the Court's step. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is quite clear that transparency issues are unnecessarily and high on the government's agenda, and I would remind you that in this Chamber we voted for Rule 225 of Law No 4782/2021, so that any investment or armament expenditure relating to the "AEGEAN" programme of civil protection, not only to be approved by the Interministerial and Ministry of Finance, but to be sent for final control at the Court of Auditors. I believe that this regulation deserves and must be consistently supported by all parliamentary representatives. After all, the issue of the country's armouring towards climate change, not change, but a threat - you will allow me to say, Mr President - these are matters they need, they require cooperation and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u156	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u157	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u158	Any questions you want to ask, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u159	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u160	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u161	Mr Secretary, although he is at the Ministry of Health and so I asked you at first why you are here, we see that Article 13, even this, in the orchestra of the amendments, gives rise to a provision which, unfortunately, renews direct assignments by invoking urgency due to the circumstances of specialists, national security, health security and the life of citizens. But, Minister, you know very well that in recent years no assignments have been identified that are not linked to urgent issues from you. I would mention, for example, the major issue that has arisen without the cooperation of the institutions, as you referred to at the end, has also led to the resignation of the body in Shhinia and to the serious problems we have in Shahih Suo and all these issues which, by invoking fire, do not implement the plan for the provision of forest fires, but a service, which you also say is not competent, intervenes directly without the approval of forestry services and environmental protection bodies. The question is: is there any room with this article for you to continue direct commissioning for interventions, which do not even have the cooperation of the relevant bodies? Because you spoke a lot about competent bodies and I have set you an example that you had no cooperation with, on the contrary, refused and led to their resignations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u162	Good. There is no other colleague to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u164	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u165	You are respected, Mr Papoutsis, because you know very well that I also recognize the experience you have in this part, I want to distinguish between two questions: The first question concerns the part of direct contracts. We don't renew anything. On the contrary, we are reducing the scope of these contracts which are not direct contracts. Most of them are by way of derogation and on the basis of the negotiation procedures and always - take note - of the checks carried out by the Commissioners' clearers so far. There are no costs which have not been checked either at the level of the State General Accounting Office or at the level of the creation of the costs by the clearers. There was an issue to what extent is it made by the clearers and to what extent is it going to the step. That is what we accept as ambiguity. Now very quickly and without wanting to abuse, I want to tell you this: you have experience in environmental matters. We didn't make any direct awards to cleaning. We were negotiating. Fourteen different companies from the Forests Association, so that a programme, 'DRYADES', could be advanced, which - let me tell you this - proved to be a cumulative two days ago. And I invite you, in addition to the announcements that with great discomfort I see in the limits of surrealism, to walk along these neighborhoods and see if we hadn't made progress in the cleansing of Dionysus and all these areas, whether the fire would be pushing or a fire that would be a fire from tree to tree, as it was high, and it would mean fewer disasters and would enable us to save human lives. In any case, I would remind you that we have also addressed to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups a specific letter - only the Change Movement has responded - to the establishment of a cross-party committee on matters relating to civil protection. I'll say it one more time, and I'll close. Civil protection issues are matters of cooperation and consultation. The country's shield is above and beyond any micro-party or other perception. The climate threat is here. We'll all be called together to deal with it. It concerns the new generations, our children and all of this must be allies, so that we can bring concrete results. Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise for the abuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u166	Good, Mr. Undersecretary. Thank you. There has been agreement and we will give the floor now to Mr Kegeroglu. You do not disagree with the two parliamentary representatives. Mr. Famelos gives his place. Then the parliamentary representatives will be given the floor. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues too. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to begin with the phenomenon of the outbreak. It is the result of the legislative process by means of the amendments. You are also wrong with the bills and the issues dealt with in the amendments, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And I'm referring in particular. We are discussing a bill on the register that has fifty - two articles and you have tabled seven amendments that have a sum of sixty - five articles! Is that a good legality? And I'm not typically talking, but actually. Whilst the bill will suffer the suffering of the vote and the debate, it is evident that it precedes, in principle and on the articles, the amendments which have more Articles - there is an amendment with nineteen articles - will not be discussed and voted on in writing! They will not be debated in writing because there is no time and they will not be voted on in writing because the House, the Bureau - not the President-in-Office - is following, despite the Rules of Procedure, a practice which the amendments want to be voted on at first and not on articles. The Rules of Procedure say in particular: Each article is voted on with what it refers to and insinuates and explains that each article is different and that it is not an amendment to the nineteen articles! Inadmissible! It is unacceptable because many amendments include very serious issues, such as what Mr Hardalias said earlier, such as what Mr Petsas said. Lots of topics! They also refer to the amendments which are being dealt with, but also to other articles which create problems at the same time. Where are you targeting? In the application of voting, in the distortion of voting or in the distortion of the political position of each party? I call on the President of Parliament once again, from the Step forward, to end this abusive practice of the government bringing draft laws through amendments! This is at the expense of resolving specific issues and consensus. I shall mention the example of the vaccination programme. The vaccination programme shortly before Christmas came to an amendment of nineteen articles, half an hour after the formal end of the meeting, which was technically extended. It has not been discussed, it has not suffered the suffering of consultation, criticism and correction and the problems most along the way, particularly in the area of citizens' information and the possibility of scientists convincing citizens because they have to be vaccinated! Stop here, gentlemen of the government! And I think that the majority of Parliament also has reason to want the good legalization. We, at least as a responsible party, who, beyond criticism and opposition, put forward creative proposals to resolve issues, are also asking you to address the government and stop this abuse. However, we must also see the bill in relation to what the Minister said. The Minister said: 'But do you not want some solutions to be put forward? Do you want to give all solutions to a bill?’ Of course not. Nobody said 'Everything or anything'. But the real question is not that. The real question is whether the bill makes use of all the technological possibilities that exist today to promote the issue of the register. That's the one question. The second question is whether this bill deals with identified major problems that have been eroding for years for the register. In both the answer is 'no'. The bill is inferior to the needs, because it really does not solve problems and is inferior to the technological possibilities available. When technology runs at this speed and we have achievements in the private sector in any way, we cannot continue to feed ourselves and say it and achieve it! An application that the state needs to fix for five years, is made within five minutes! The speeds are now different. And because you are the Ministry of Digital Policy, you must do two things: firstly, consult the thematic ministries, which the thematic ministries know of the problems both through dialogue and consultation with the thematic ministries - that is, we need an interministerial agreement on this issue - as Digital Policy to make use of technological potential and to provide solutions. You don't. You hide the problems underneath the carpet, to present the picture that the register is being completed for the reasons stated by our rapporteur, Mrs Lykoulis, and the evidence she has provided in relation to the European Union and, of course, on the issues that have been identified and raised in your knowledge that they must now be resolved legally and in other ways. Before entering the amendments we have tabled, I would like to say that it is unfairly criticised on the part of SYRIZA - and I can say it is appropriate - in relation to Costas Laliotis and the management of the register. Because you know very well that the introduction to the first part of the process of realisation of the country has had huge problems. When we find problems today, imagine the beginning! So the opening of the road to the country's holding, for the Land register, was even more difficult. Of course, there have been errors and errors and there has also been fines, but there has been no hiding under the carpet, so that the fines are not shown as they are now. That's what's happening now. The problem is not solved. They're hiding under the rug. So you, in short, indirectly praise the practice of hiding the problem under the carpet, not solving it so that it doesn't eat the fine, while blaming the one who ate the fine because there was really a problem and reaction of many synagogues in creating the Register! However, as our rapporteur has said, we must all today, with the experience we have, with one voice, independently of the mistakes we have made - and we have all done because we have all ruled - to promote the register, but in the best way. I would suggest inter-ministerial consultation and inter-group consultation, in the pattern that Mr Chardalias has said in civil protection, which we welcome, in order to provide solutions to these issues and to convince society. Literally two words on the amendments. We have tabled an amendment to the special unpaid mortgages and their employees for the recognition of parcels appearing as unknown property. We have tabled an amendment for workers at the Renewable Energy Renewable Sources and Saving Centre. I am only speaking on the legacy amendment. It is about many thousands of people in this period in Crete, which is being promoted. It's the problem in full progress. We have tabled an amendment, which says that for the uninterrupted implementation of the realisation carried out by the legal person "Greek Register" the agricultural lots should be in the same fate as the other parcels which are not lots, should not be in a more unfavourable position. They are excluded from the scope of provision 1 of the obligor Law No.431/1968, as the 2012 Act provided for by it, and this provision does not affect the property rights already born on the legacy. This provision will therefore make it easier for the procedures and owners to go and say like simple parcels with two sworn declarations, in the E9 which is necessary to state for so many years, without being asked for the daring and costly procedure that costs more than the value of the property in order to post it in the register. Thank you very much and we are waiting for the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u168	Good, Mr. Kegeroglu. So we will now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Famelos, then we will be followed by Mr Bukouros, a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, then we will be on the list of speakers and because they have said that they will speak, we will go on to two speakers, a parliamentarian. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I have a quick answer to Mr Kegeroglu before he forgets what he said. Mr. Kegeroglu, we're not all the same. After 20 years of government of New Democracy and PASOK - from 1995 to 2015 - we found 35% posts of the Stock Exchange and within four years with a memorandum we changed the legal person, we proclaimed the forest maps, we posted forest maps, we published the study of the Register to complete and we did all the digital modernisation that New Democracy is now celebrating. So we're not all the same. We took it out and moved on for twenty years, unfortunately both of you hadn't gone ahead with it. I wish we could find progressive roads to help both the Stock Exchange and all the major changes. However, Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that Mr Pierracakis has just spoken. I guess he's not so proud of his legislation, and he probably doesn't honor the parliamentary procedure, he had to listen at least to the opposition. The fact is that he couldn't be very proud of a piece of legislation that cancels the register. And it is a tragic moment, you know, a government that plays it 'green' and modernistic, digital, to announce that we will no longer have a register in Greece. Of course, there are many problems that exist in the rest of the political topical and urgent debate. Our country lives in great uncertainties, but also in great controversy. A denial is that of perfection and excellence. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the package of the government's amendments to understand the Government's perfection and excellence, otherwise. There are, however, serious issues in the other sectors. The most serious thing is in society and the economy. Unfortunately, the recovery of both the economy and society is questioned. What we are learning is that the Recovery Fund, which is a great opportunity, is at risk of being a lost opportunity, because in secretly and quickly the government is trying to settle loose ends and promises, while we see our islands being in'red', the economy being at risk with many padlocks, tourism and focusing on a very difficult point. The second year of inadequacy for the government with unparalleled statements last year and this year. Last year we had Santorini, I see here, I read Mitsotakis at 'BILD': 'July and August will remind us of a normal summer' and I will present it in the Minutes. Unfortunately, the statements, but the projects, are missing from this government, and rather Mr Mitsotakis and the government want to live in another environment, fantasy, which the well-paid media make, because he wants to move on with deals, deals with colleges, deals with energy, deals with water, with all the sale of the property of the state that goes on. However, the main issue - I want to say it - remains in health. The government has not served the National Health System. On the contrary, he wants to close hospitals and privatise functions. He hasn't brought staff, we don't have equipment, we don't have IDs. And today remains the issue of prescribing the tests and tracking, because today we know - and we get messages - that people are waiting in queues and disrespecting and not taking over this public regulation. We have serious problems, but also with universal vaccination - we believe - which the government has dynamised not only with the rumours it made at the beginning of vaccination, when the officials of the New Democracy gathered and left out sanitary workers, not with Mr Mitsotakis' announcement that we will have two million at the end of March, or with the other announcement that we will have 70% end of June, the big words betray you and expose you to society. Do we now say you can work with the municipalities? Because you haven't worked with the municipalities yet. You have no data for the third age, for people with motor problems, for the remote settlements. We need to do targeted activities at the CFP, 'Help at Home', because unfortunately, in vulnerable groups vaccination is still low. Now, can you at least now admit your mistakes and say an apology to the world? Because, unfortunately, other sectors are not going well. I see another statement here by Mr Mitsotakis on Greek-Turkish: 'We will have a quieter summer'. Ladies and gentlemen, this is ultimately the quietest summer that Mr Mitsotakis has met with Mr Erdogan, with this insulting intervention by Mr Erdogan in Cyprus, the harassment and the problems we have constantly in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean. I don't know exactly how, on what condition I call this government. I must say, however, that it is certainly dangerous for Greece and in contrast to the difficulties we face today in our country. At the same time, we have read all about it at all levels. By direct assignment - he says - he shared 1.9 billion euros, while out of the public contracts that have been made in the last sixteen months since the two hundred seventy thousand, sixty-five thousand are directly awarded. You have therefore made the crisis for commissions and for settlements, while at the same time selling the whole system, the whole gas network, you have given the "Greek Petroleum". You are selling the medium-voltage network and the medium-term you are writing for the sale of HSY and HSYAP, while for the world accuracy, precision in current, accuracy in consumer goods, precision in construction materials. The economy is inconsistent with fuel, not to mention the carpet that Mr Hatzidakis put into the oil at the beginning of the year. This is all coming together. And in digital governance at least do we have a state of transparency, equality, civil service, acceleration, a rule of law? How can we now have a rule of law when last Tuesday's government tried indefinitely to postpone the meeting of the Committee on Assurance Statement Control to hide the issues that have arisen with the Prime Minister's'subsistent'? How can we talk about a state of electronics, modern and fair citizens when the government and Parliament have tried to hide and postpone a meeting? And when they finally held this meeting yesterday we discovered that he is trying to introduce the Prime Minister's name into a list of unfinished MPs who will be filed. Is that the transparency? Is that is isology? Is that what this digital and modern state we're talking about? Let us make it clear that we have submitted to the public and to the parliament all documents which prove to be declaring falsely "from time to time" and which hides a French company at least since 2016. Here, then, some things must be done clearly. In any other country of Europe and the world, if the Prime Minister's name had been involved in multiple uncovered data on the concealment of assets from 'outside', there would have been a serious political problem, because we have a serious problem of democracy in Greece. You are trying to hide it from me and from what I am learning and from media interventions. Is that the digital modern state? So, in other words, today's electronically announced "substantiated" of politicians, today, we have a parallel project of concealing the assets of the Prime Minister? And the question for me is very simple: First, why did it hide them, since political people and relatives have been banned from 2016 in foreign companies? And, secondly, after he was revealed, why doesn't a " sorry, there's been a mistake" but he's still spreading lies? What's he hiding? What exactly is behind it? Or is it yet another proof from the New Democracy that it despises democracy, despises democratic functions, deports parliament, despises transparency and considers it its property to be the state and all its citizens? Unfortunately, these steps we are seeing backwards and democratic functions and the economy and health are also seen in terms of the digital functions of the Greek state. I would like to say a few examples, since the Minister has come in on matters of his competence, so that we can finally see whether we are going ahead with electronic tools. The first feature: The government of SYRIZA created a Geographical Data Directorate and integrated the entire spatial information in order to have public access and all citizens with special regulation to the Ministry of Environment and Energy. As soon as the Government of New Democracy comes in, it passes a provision and gives the digital map to the Technical Chamber, i.e. outside the public office, to another body that is a technical consultant, but is not a study company or a commission company or anything else you're trying to create lately. With what competition? Hang on, 45 million euros! And beyond that, at least? No, zero, it didn't even start to understand how digital the state of Mr. Pierrakakis and Mr. Mitsotakis is. Secondly, he takes the register and takes it to the Ministry of Digital Governance, because - he says - he has electronic tools. In fact, I would expect, Mr Katsi, that both TAXIS and EFKA and teletex will go to Mr Pierrakakis at some point, not to be in the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, or the Ministry of Education with this logic of the footage you have. But do they move on to at least the design levels? No, neither the level of single town planning in all the municipalities in the country throughout their territory is progressing by the government, it has also stopped. So we won't have an organization on the digital background of uses that can be combined with the Stock Exchange, to know what we have in Greece. The forest maps reached from 0.8% to 40% SYRIZA and the rest were awarded, today they are all cancelled. Mr. Pierracakis' digital state writes 0%. This is the modernisation of Greece. Is at least the electronic building identity that the Prime Minister said about on 1 January 2021 - not 2024 - going to be in operation? Neither is she. Last week there was a provision suspending the application of the electronic identity of the building. In order for them to pass further arbitraryly, Mr. Representative of the New Democracy? I don't know exactly how digital that policy is. I see, however, that we are taking steps backwards. Does it at least work, Mrs Poulos, the arbitrary platform that we set up by ministerial decision with the building observatorys to enable the citizen to have electronic service and to resolve the arbitrary electronics and orthophobol maps? That doesn't work either. Legislation by ministerial decision. What I described is progress or anachronisation in our country's digital tools? Clearly it is anachronism, because even with regard to these seventeen certificates, which we asked what is it, a simple question arises: why are they not part of the citizen's box? Don't you want to have digital tools? Why are you describing something that has been under way for years as your own innovation, but do you not do so on the substance? What we are learning, however, is that we see a project to digitify mortgage records, which had been costed with our institutions over our government at EUR 65 million, Mr Pierracakis, now circulate from 240 to 400 million in the Recovery Fund. How is that possible? Inflation only on the design assignments has your Ministry? In the rest, you must be austerity. So the rest goes back from what I described. The government of SYRIZA - I said it at first - has undertaken a project of 35% frozen since 2012. He proclaimed for Greece as a whole the realisation. We relaunched the program, unified the mortgage book, and put hands on medieval-type processes that you all dared not all the scientists, who speak very nicely, to change all these years. We created the new legal person, started the process of realisation throughout Greece and retreated all the rest in agreement with the institutions and the European Union. I don't know why you're lost in translation, Mr. Pierracakis, and you're reading documentaries of the past? I can assure you that this law that proceeded with the realisation of SYRIZA had passed with the agreement of the institutions. Leave the suggestions you're looking for to justify unjustified. And then we started to upgrade portal and the online development of forest maps and the application for topographical charts - all of this is from the government of SYRIZA - and the electronic submission of notarial acts, and even with the coordination of the notarial societies, we proceeded to the final control procedure. Both topographic and contracts and the service of citizens from distances and copies and attestations all started by the SYRIZA government. And we are coming today and we are seeing - Mr President, I shall present the relevant reports in the Minutes - the strange thing: Mr Hatzidakis says on 11 November 2019 on the register that we are doing well. One of the prisoners. Mr Hatzidakis then comes in 2020 and says: "Year - milestone in 2021. Completed Digital Register. Certification completed.’ I mean, SYRIZA's. Of course, it says that the course is over 65% and is covered by 93% of the territory. So until then everything was going well. And now suddenly the government comes and changes everything and stops the Stock Exchange. Because it's going well - I'm starting to believe it, Mr. Pierracakis - the Land register, you're stopping it because it's ruining your plans. It's not easy to make real estate deals if you have a real estate register. It bothers you, and you take us back to the '70s and at least the '80s, not to say older. The main secret to the drafting of the Land register is the involvement of the owners, to fill the puzzle, to have the information. We therefore want to mobilise citizens from the state. The Government of New Democrat Republic, while having the ownership procedure assigned by SYRIZA, has frozen that procedure, does not inform the citizens, does not mobilize the citizens, and does in fact provide false information on the procedure for objections and registrations. How does that turn out? Unfortunately, the Undersecretary tried at the last meeting of the committee to throw them to the scholars. The scholars say they hadn't made it through the register. I have here the letter of the scholars who reacted. They say, as far as Athens is concerned, "We completed the realisation in November 2020, and since then we have been waiting for the head office to tell us how to begin the process of objections and correction applications". But what did our good government of Mitsotakis do? He froze the objections procedure, delayed it two years and now finds the objections to destroy the register as a reason. What does the letter say next? He says that the contract for cemetery has been terminated, it's over, so we're not rewarded, because Mr. Stylus has charged them with paying. It also says that 'we do not have any instructions or orders to examine applications for correction'. In other words, the government tells them: do not consider corrections and objections. Therefore, the contractors do not delay the study, the government is delaying it, nor is it able to inform the citizens of the registrations, nor is the opposition procedure open. So the loose ends are multiplying and the government is now coming to say 'close the Land register'. I urge you to put another one that says: Convert the title of "Greek Register" to "Non-Register of Greece". I think it will be the most successful amendment. Mr. Katsy said so. We'll say we have a register and it'll be like we don't have one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, then, this whole process becomes very simple just because you like to party interests. When there is no Stock Exchange, and when for the first time, I think, in world history on the Real Estate Charter, on the property leaf, it will say that this card is but it has loose ends, very simply we will start making unfinished contracts. I don't know. It will also make a contract between the owner and the opposing non-owner and the neighbor because they too remain open after the loose ends. So, you told us how many years back, how many decades back? The loose ends are multiplying, because the incomplete hides errors and traps and owners in all lawfulness and with a clear right will be placed hostages of the hostages who will have problems, possibly for non-legal purposes, and will go to negotiation or mediation. So there'll be uncertainty. What the government is doing today is that it undermines the authority of the Land register. With the proposed regulations and the costs will rise for the citizens and the register will never end, while there was an institutional framework and there could be no objections to areas from the study that is now being developed on property 16. Let's get this straight. They're telling us that they're making an arrangement under which there's no objections, it's over. But that was, it was legislated, it was at Law 4602/2019. It might now be possible if you did not put in this process, because you are blocking the registration of owners at the moment, to complete those who have no objections to go and complete the livestock leaves. So the cemetery would be over. You do not apply these provisions and you do not apply them, but they have not been assessed, nobody has seen their positive benefit and you say that there will be no positive consequences. But you still have no information on the number of objections and gaps, deficits. You say that it will be 2% false - it is about another area - because you are stopping the registration procedure so we do not know how much black points are, the spots on vetting. It is apparent from the data from the land registers already delivered in the preamble that at least 10% of the rights have been rejected. So imagine how many neighbors are and how many will be affected. And, unfortunately, this is about the fact that 44% of rights have not yet been declared. You have, therefore, produced - and we say this formally - with your own regulations in 6a a situation of terrible bureaucracy and complexity of objections in order to delay and prevent the process of realisation and objections from either giving the contractors permission or because you do not inform citizens. So, without any proof, you come and present us with an innovation that does this: It undermines the credibility of the institution, jeopardises the security of trade, and disapproves the decision to conclude a realisation. It will be decided on by the institution, and it will unfortunately be an empty letter. Indeed, we are very afraid that because it changes the milestone of the passover, which is the decision of the committee from which the eight-year deadline for the citizen to claim rights, you will also lead the citizens to court and mediation, and this will be very difficult for people who do not have to pay. This is the main problem created by this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Femelle, let me inform you that you are now running out of the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u171	Sure. So, at the same time, there are 'Wild West' conditions on the land market, while, unfortunately, the citizens who do not have the opportunity will lose their right. Mr President, I am going through two - three amendments very quickly, because I cannot mention some basic elements. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, we have talked about it. It concerns serious issues relating to the army of contractors, but also to opaque assignments. As far as the issue of the Ministry of Culture is concerned, I think there is a serious issue here which we need to see. There is a Minister's assumption that he cannot complete the clearance process until August, but it seems that there remains a serious issue regarding workers and workers who are made redundant and unresolved on the subject, in fact he is in the air, which is a serious matter for them. We're waiting for the Minister to come and ask questions. As far as the issue of the Ministry of Labour is concerned, I would like to say that although we have a positive position on several provisions, particularly those relating to shipyards, there is a photographic and scandalous regulation in Article 5, which is in fact going beyond the judicial decision that has a very clear response from the OSCE, which I think is about the Economic and Social Committee, which must be removed from this amendment. Because otherwise, we could go ahead with some things. As far as the issues of the Ministry of Interior are concerned, I think I'm placed. As far as the issue of the Ministry of Finance is concerned, this amendment is curious, because the Ministry of Finance had a bill this week and could be resolved. It comes and raises tax and customs issues that create quite a number of questions. The main thing, however, is that in the articles of the debt regulation, the New Democracy does not go ahead with a solution that also includes deletion of the debt corresponding to the pandemic, not anyone else, but the one due to the pandemic and the new bankruptcy code, but also the tightening of incomes will create a dead end. In other words, it is not possible to regulate these doses which go in here to solve the problems that exist. On the issue of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Education, I would like to say this. Mr President - and I am closing down with this and I am sorry - we had bills from both ministries. Last week we had a bill for one and yesterday for the other. They are therefore bringing us amendments which are almost like a bill. As far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, apart from the exception of photovoltaics from competitive processes, it brings us many stations to regulate the connection of Crete, which we requested last week in the Chamber and did not come to, while Crete had problems with electricity and while the cable is placed by SYRIZA's competition and auction, complete from the end of the '20s. It is the great project of the Peloponnese - Crete. The main thing, therefore, that we see here in Article 3, is that production licences for 2010 and 2011 are exempted for huge quantities - I see that it is 2 000 MW in Crete - from the obligation to build the underwater cable, which the information speaks about hundreds of millions of euros. In other words, you come to a hotel, and you get rid of someone who has a license to build the way to go, I'm saying an example. You make the way for him and you tell him "you can operate your own project", by abrogating the rules of his offer and his permission after 10 years, which is due - we will see when the Minister comes - that at the time another Hatzidakis had released the energy market and you could not find any difference. And now you come and you fix it. However, here you have catalysed every concept of healthy competition and transparency, and one issue arises. Do you retrospectively change the rules of a licence after ten years by underestimating all the others who might be interested in whether the project has no underwater cable? How's that gonna happen? Are any rights reserved when they apply for another project and give it to them in another form? In fact, we're talking about 2,000 MW. I think that this is tragic, as tragic is to come with an amendment, and even last night, when we were discussing a bill from the Ministry of the Environment a week ago. So then we discussed whether there are any amendments. I think that all this proves the steps that this government is slowly going down. You're getting lower and lower. You dedicate yourself to society and to the conscience of the world, and evil is that you deceive our country as well. And this is the very difficult task that the next progressive government will have to raise a country's heavyly hurt by New Democracy upright again. But we will, because it will be the people with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u172	We are now going to give the floor to Mr Karamanlis to support the amendment, number 1034, and to a specific 20 on the matter of the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will then have the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked for the floor for two minutes to support the amendment of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with a general number of 1034 and a special 20. The text contains two provisions. The first article relates to the fees for the modernisation and development of airports, that is to say, what is commonly known as the ‘spatial’ of the fourteen regional airports. The concessionaire has submitted to the State, as it owed, 8.5% of the fees, which are for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. This amount is EUR 42,76 million. The proposed amendment, therefore, regulates their appearance in the budget of the PSC for the year 2021, without requiring an equivalent amount of revenue in the State budget in question. At the same time, the categories of costs which may be covered by those amounts, as provided for in the concessions, such as those referred to as ‘principal services’, are reflected. It is therefore clear that this provision is very important for both the PSC and the wider social group. I now come to the second article on the suspension of the provisions of No.71/2019. Let me explain the situation briefly. With the taking up of our duties in 2019, we found that a few days before the 2019 elections was published in the morning of 2019 on the establishment of new electronic registers in the field of the production of public works. Unfortunately, however, the planned process and pre-treatment had not been carried out and until the time the Presidential Decree was published, the Ministry had not made any progress in the implementation and operation of this entire digital transition system, nor even prevented the financing of the actions required for the construction of this digital platform. For our part, we have taken care immediately and on 7 September the necessary funding has been provided for the inclusion of the new register, the so-called "NOTE" in the Operational Programme "Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship, Innovation 2014-2020". At the same time, a specialised consultant was hired to assist the Ministry's services. At the same time, we also set up a coordinating committee and a working group, in which all stakeholders, representatives of the Ministry, representatives of contractors and study bodies and chambers are involved. The proposed amendment therefore prolongs the suspension of the provisions of the Presidential Decree because, as I said before, all this had to be done a long time ago. And now they are being launched, but in the part concerning the functioning of the new registers of contractors and scholars and the validity of the registers provided for in earlier provisions of Law 3669/2008. The extension of the suspension of the provisions of d.d.71/2019 is necessary in order, as I have explained, to complete all the necessary consultation procedures with market participants and to select the contractor for the creation of the digital platform hosting the new registers and transferring all the data of the existing registers. I must make it clear that this suspension does not create any risk in the tenders, since the former registers of contractors and scholars are still in force and the validity of contractors and study diplomas is being extended equally. This is, therefore, a very large task which will help to make public works subject to the new digital age that the government is doing every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Katsis has asked for the floor to ask a few questions. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, about Article 2. Minister, this is an extension of the deadlines laid down in No. 71/2019 for the renewal of the diplomas of scholars, contractors and others. The Presidential Decree provided for the creation of an electronic registry platform, which has not yet been implemented. We are talking now at the end of July 2021. No solution may be made at present by this provision without the extension of the time limits. I would like to ask you directly: what measures has the government taken to prevent this extension from happening again? First of all, that. And, secondly, why two years has this computer record not been completed? Thirdly, is there - and can Mr Pierracakis confirm - a corresponding project in the '20-25 digital transformation paper? And a rhetorical question, to which you can choose who will answer. If you've done two years and still haven't made an electronic register for this, how many years will it take - why are we in the middle of a constitutionally regulated government service - to make an electronic register for those accredited in the register or an electronic register for the EMS, another two years? The election's over, hello, you're lost! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u178	The Minister has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. I see you're coming in well read with the notes that other colleagues give you, but they didn't tell you well, so listen to me so you don't get smart.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u180	Why are you insulting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u181	I don't insult you, because you didn't know what you were reading. At least...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u182	Don't insult me, answer the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u183	Please, Mr. Katsi, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u184	I didn't interrupt, I listened very carefully, and I tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u185	But I didn't offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u186	I don't insult you either. I am telling you that what you are saying has no basis on reality and I am coming back. When you signed the c.E.71, you did it a few days before you left power, right? So we had to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u187	The presidential decree...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u188	Look, ladies and gentlemen, there is a procedure here in the Greek Parliament, which I think we all respect and do not interrupt. Let me answer and if you have any questions, here we are. This is how democratic dialogue is taking place, we have to understand this once.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u189	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u190	At n.o.b.71 there had been no advances, and this whole process took time. The Ministry's priority was to revise the most problematic law on all public procurement contracts in 4412. This was the priority, and there are many reforms in this bill that have to do with digital, if you like, a transition. Are you accusing us of slowing down the digitisation issues? They'll laugh at the beetles in a minute. So I'm explaining what we did in particular. I told you in my first speech that you had not done any absolutely precursor work. To revise a presidential decree, specific procedures are needed. So what you are told in your party must be understood that there has been no advance. You didn't even have, as usual in SYRIZA, predicted the funding needed to do all this. So what did you do? A gonatogram, dear. You flew a presidential decree into the air and now you come and say: 'Two years you have done nothing'. Well, this criticism...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u191	Well, you didn't. The point is, you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u192	Let the Minister finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u193	The opposition to toxicity and misery, let her go. I answer you with evidence. If you do not like this, we are here all of our colleagues and the Greek people are judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u194	It passes through S.T.E. And you're talking about a gonatogram?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u195	Please! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u196	However, it is good, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u198	Minister Pierracakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u199	First of all, Mr President, I would like to say that we are putting forward legislative improvements, and that is also the case for the EMEA. The term ‘and’ shall be ‘or’. Secondly, all ministerial amendments are accepted. Thirdly, in connection with what my dear colleague, Mr Karamanlis, said, but also with what he has heard before, I just want to mention two numbers in relation to speed and how digital services take place in the country in all the ministries and our cooperation. In 2018, we had eight million eight hundred thousand digital transactions in Greece. In 2019, we had thirty-four million digital transactions in Greece. In 2020, we had ninety-four million digital transactions in Greece and in the first half of 2021, we have a hundred fifty million digital transactions in Greece. So I appreciate that in 2021, we'll close about twice. This is an aggressive change in how citizens are served by their homes. Citizens, everyone! So that alone tells him that he doesn't need any minister, no government to claim it. The number says everything. The second number that says it all in relation to digital services is as many as available from gov.gr. We started with five hundred agencies, many pre-existing and took them to the thousands of two hundred. And we will do much more with Mr Karamanlis and with all our colleagues, because it is quite simply people who are asking for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u200	All right, thanks to the Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Bukokokouros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I wonder, although the Chamber is in place after the parliamentary representative of the Vice-President, who has not been accused of destroying the country, that we are selling out the country, that the pandemic is dismantling everything, that the economy is sinking, that growth has sanctified, that Erdogan has conquered the country, etc. But, such a catastrophe, such an equivalent logic, is it supposed to be in the context of a calm dialogue that exchanges views and criticizes, sometimes tough, in order to improve things? Have you forgotten, my dear colleague, who granted the public property for ninety-nine years through the third and inappropriate memorandum? And you're swinging the country's sales finger today? Have you forgotten about Erdogan's visit to the Maximos House and the Presidential Palace and you are now accusing us of Erdogan's unilateral actions from the occupied, while we have been diplomatically isolated, which we have responded to his challenge to Evros and his challenge to the Eastern Mediterranean? Where did you come in to the Presidential Palace and the Maximos Mansion and have you swallowed your languages? Will you tell us about Erdogan?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u202	It's obvious you're very concerned about what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u203	Please don't take a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u204	We are concerned because you have served critical ministries, dear colleague. I demand that you be more documented and more calmly criticised. From you, in particular. What can we talk about now? For the digital policy? By two numbers, literally, Mr. Pierracakis dismantled your entire account beforehand. For the number of transactions and the number of transactions, certificates, administrative operations carried out within two years. And Mr Karamanlis told you before. A public procurement law, Mr.4412, which attempted to be corrected by your Government three hundred and fifty-three times, and you are accusing us here today of ministerial amendments, nine. Three hundred and fifty three times you corrected the Public Procurement Act, Law 4412. In three years. And it was, as Mr Karamanlis said, a priority for the Ministry and then the creation of the electronic registers, which you wrote as a political mortgage a few days before the elections. What do you not understand? Aren't we all speaking in this Chamber? When electronic transactions on your day are 100 thousand and are ejected to 1.5 million today, what are you trying to compare exactly? Qualitatively or quantitatively our differences?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u205	The telework pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u206	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u207	Quantitatively or quantitatively in the JEPs, Mr Famele, is the same number of transactions, the same number of administrative acts? The pandemic and health? Have you criticised the vaccines that the vaccination system in Greece has extracted the most positive comments worldwide? So, what do you want to do, keep the pandemic from happening? I know what scares you, the exit from the pandemic and the country's economic upsurge, in combination with the Reconstruction Fund, which we will discuss tomorrow. You are shaking the idea that we can leave the crisis behind, even the pandemic crisis. Is that a national office opposition you're making? To beg for the country's trumping and ruining in pandemic, economy, national issues? Is this a serious approach by a government that believes that it can become the country's new progressive governance? Is misery, blackness, and leveling progress? Is that progress? I know that progress is fruitful criticism, improvement of things, forward promotion rather than backwards. This is a progressive policy. You told us that you did all well and well, and you invoked the forest maps, that you posted a large proportion, indeed, leaving behind hundreds of thousands of victims. One hundred and seventy thousand were objections and objections, and at the rate you examined them would be completed in twenty - seven years. You have committed a ugliness to Mr. Hatzidakis beforehand. You said Hatzidakis said that 2021 would complete the Land register. Because we are all listening together to the interviews and statements of the ministers, Hatzidakis said exactly what today's bill provides for, that the realisation will be completed in 2024. I would refer you to the interview you referred to. Why are you swelling the papers, the photocopies of the interviews, and to create impressions you tell half the truth and file them in the Practical supposedly? Why are you doing this, as you did in the morning with the logo of the amendments? Are they the same ministerial amendments to this government as the amendments you have brought? Are the same in-depth, the same detailed, the same reasoned, our amendments have been assessed? You brought us thirty - forty handwritings, gonatograms, written here and called on the House to vote for them, the government of tens of MDGs. You who have introduced the system 'we are voting for and voting for laws', are you talking about good legislation, about correct legislation? You have established the unprecedented, 'we are voting and voting'. We were all in this Parliament. I do not want to mention any further, nor do I want to feed a controversy which also makes the Greek people tired and does not help in public matters. But I'd expect more from you for the bill. You told us that the register was abolished by this bill. If that's not a teratology, what is it? Half-year shortening is the aim of the bill. Because the bills in practice are judged both in their functionality and in their effectiveness. Aiming, however, is half the time. You come here and tell us about dismantling. Why? Because all the evidence will be made public. You have not heard in this Chamber about publicity, what the Minister said, that all the information will be accessible, what is publicity, what does it mean? Publicity is the soul of justice. We must also open up a debate on open data. To open a debate right now on access to data. Because now that it runs digitally, the country is now also the time for this debate. Access for citizens of modern and mature democracies to data is, if you like, one of the characteristics of maturity, functionality and completeness of our democracy. But did you not tell us - we heard criticism of the bill - how much did you increase ownership in the four and a half years that you ruled? Did you get it 10 percent and deliver it 40 percent as a percentage? I have not heard any references from any speaker. They are all aware that the extent of the data needs to be enriched and the depth of the data given the opportunity for the citizens of the areas that have been finalised to correct the errors. We are a country of immigrants, many Greeks live abroad. There was no publicity that exists today. When real estate began in 1995, neither social media existed, nor, if you like, such citizens' access to information. There are mistakes, there are omissions and this inalienable right of the Greek State to have the presumption of ownership, to have the presumption of depositing a statement for unknown property. At some point - the Minister said - it will be over, because it is not the end of the legislation on the Stock Exchange. It is a very basic first step. But why today undoubtedly can the government raise rights against an unknown property owner? Because the public itself is not aware of its property, and this is tragic in 2021 and has fear of big legislative leaps, essentially and quickly the Greek state. That is what must concern us all, and I am referring to Article 13 this time, but I have the commitment of Mr Pierrakakis, that today it is the beginning and that these steps will be completed together with the other geo-tax instruments. There is also the government's commitment, Mr. Officer, to complete the matter of forest maps by 31 December, so that this can also enter the tracks and finally be completed. I do not doubt that you have made an important effort, but the Council of State canceled many pieces and there were too many objections, tens of thousands, seventy thousand. That is what we are pointing out, that is what we have to go through. Our government does not sell out any public property or deal with some real estate broker invisible and great, as you imagine, without presenting any figures to the House and completely unsupporting, you say that the register is changing to move the agreements under the table. Where do you support all these things and sludge the fan? Where do you support them? What evidence? We're the bad guys and you guys are the good guys? Or us or them? Are you still dwindling by the divisive logics, which are not tolerated by the Greek people, which led you to the benches you are sitting on today? The Greek people don't want the division. The Greek people want the understanding, they want the composition, they want the promotion of things and the resolution of the problems. You still have a divisive logic of the formula "or we or them, the bad guys of the centre and the good of the SYRIZA". He no longer sells this story, he no longer sells this account. You need to understand that. Those who are opposed to today's bill are those who, if you like, support the situation to date. Because there is no honour for the Greek State and for any government the course of the Land register in the country. That is why it has been clearly demonstrated, Minister, that, through the contractual procedures, the classic procedures, the bureaucratic procedures that we all know were not done in the country, and that the government rightly went through it as the responsibility of the Ministry of Digital Policy and that you are right to take the first step of digitisation and digital procedures in the register. Because experience has proved to date that with the other contractual procedures we have achieved little and at a great cost and with great delay. Therefore, the speeding up, simplification and security - and I would say transparency - Mr Minister, are the new elements with this bill, which is the first step, such as the electronic property file, such as the registration of any doubts and all these issues, which, if you like, increase the scope and depth of the data in the Register and facilitate accessibility of all stakeholders, public and private, in this database. That's the warning difference so far. To close - I do not want to go far beyond time, Mr President - I would say that, in fact, what is progress and maintenance is not a sign that is bought in some market that we have in mind. What progress is and what maintenance is, in particular, is judged by the approach of the problems that modern man faces, problems that are complex and largely unprecedented. How, then, are these problems dealt with? With the old method of good and bad, progressive and conservative, or with innovation, digitisation, new methods of approach, which are faster and more effective, so that modern man does not suffocate under the sum of old and new problems? We must not discover new outlets, let us say that the register needs to be digitised. It's necessary, why? Because all our areas of life are digitised, from education and work to public health, with the individual health record, which also comes a number of other procedures. Because the vast majority of Greek citizens are now dealing with the Greek public from their homes, from the security of their homes without waiting in queues. As long as we limit the tails and the visits to public services, the country goes better. Did all the problems solve by Pierracakis or by Karamanlis who were here earlier or by Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy? Of course not. Did we ever claim that? We faced the first two years of unprecedented challenges and the bet we won is that the rest of the public administration mechanism did not stop. He went ahead with modernization, advanced innovations, took the steps he had to take, despite the pandemic and despite the major challenges in our neighborhood from our bad neighbours many times, but also the global challenges that our country has faced in the context of pandemic. We have not lifted our hands up to say we have two difficult opponents and enemies. The digitisation - as Mr Pierracakis is here today - is now being traded with the public for so many administrative acts and forms and supporting documents that he was standing on the line. As far as I know, the digital training of the operators through the JEPs will proceed. Already the Ministry has planned and is preparing a program to familiarize all citizens with digital skills at the time of their transaction with the public. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the Greek people who have been hardened through the difficulties of recent years and the economic crisis and pandemic, sees us, observes us and judges us all strictly. As there is no easy money in our time, there is neither easy support nor easy vote. We're all hard to judge. I invite you to vote on this bill that goes one step ahead of the register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u208	Thank you. We continue with the list of speakers. I will invite Mr. Athanasio Lippi from the New Democracy to the Step. Mrs Poulo will be followed by SYRIZA, Mr. Villiardos as Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, after two MPs, Mr. Kavvadas and Mrs.Garas, and then by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Katrinis. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another bill from the Ministry of Digital Governance, which not only makes the lives of the Greeks simpler, not only makes the procedures easier, but with common sense, the simple mind makes the difficult simplest. The Greek Stock Exchange, i.e. the service that records the properties of the Greeks, is a long-standing case. Greece is the only country in Europe that does not have a register, and until now has only been found in 35% of the country. Of course, there are areas with peculiarities that face difficulties in their realisation, such as Pelion, where more than a thousand properties were suddenly found off-limits of settlements following relevant decisions of the Board. But such cases are not the norm. The reality is that the Greek register should and could already have been completed. The Department of Digital Governance with today's bill makes key contributions to the process so that it can be completed more quickly and with fewer bureaucratic delays. Already a big step has been taken to get digital access to the elements of the Stock Exchange lawyers, engineers, notaries. Today the great change lies in the fact that all objections must no longer be considered in order to complete the realisation, since only 2% of the cases are submitted. The new regulation puts into effect the register as long as the procedure for examining these applications lasts. At the same time, for the security of trade and the provision of legal certainty there will be a special record on the stock-exchange in order to make it known to anyone concerned that there is a request for correction on this co-ownership. This change is expected to accelerate the full operation of the register by two years. They are completely vague and, in my opinion, the objections of the Officerial Opposition on this matter, on the grounds that this is never the end of the register. It is a speculation, as the Minister has said, but the objections and the loose ends will take the path of justice, as should be done, and then the realisation will be fully completed. So there is no ambiguity at this point. In another attempt to introduce alternative ways of resolving disputes into our process, the role of mediation is being upgraded. Where there is a dispute over an property, both sides may resort to mediation and, in the event of an agreement being reached, the ombudsman's practice shall be recorded in the veterinary sheet and the record corrected. In this way, a long and costly judicial struggle can be avoided until the irrevocable judicial decision is delivered. The institution of the holder's pension is introduced in secondary trials relating to the cases of the Court of First Instance, so that there is a special knowledge of the judges. Provision is made for specific seminars for judges and herds. In order to correct all the entries marked ‘unknown owner’, the consent of the Greek State is necessary, which normally never comes. In order to overcome this phenomenon in the event of an application for the correction of a manifest error, if the Greek State raises no objections within sixty days, the veterinary office shall be obliged to correct the registration. Specialist scientists are being used to speed up the work of land registers. A stable cooperation shall be established through the relevant programming contract with the TEI. A specialised five-member committee of experts is set up within the Greek Stock Exchange, which is responsible for examining any legal issues, as well as for supervising the operation of the real estate offices. Engineering, if specifically qualified, may be granted a special licence and entered in the Special Register in order to be considered an accredited engineer for the Register and to receive technical reports and topographical charts audits. The process of transferring property to Greece has little improved over the past decades, despite the progress of technology. Creating the email property on the gov.gr platform helps the notary to easily collect all the necessary documents and certificates needed to transfer real estate. Today's draft law examines new digital applications of the Ministry of Digital Governance, "MyAuto" for vehicle owners, to have all the information they want, "AuditCar" for auditing authorities to have access to vehicle data, "MyPhoto" allowing the transformation and storage of digital photographs and the portability of the private signature of every citizen to facilitate transactions with the public. To conclude, I shall refer to an important amendment, on 1036, which creates the framework for the effective functioning of the home vaccination mechanism by medical staff both of public primary health care structures and of the relevant OTA personnel. The sums paid to private doctors, EUR 50 at home, EUR 20 at the hospital, in order to make use of them also in the vaccination process, which is becoming increasingly accessible to citizens. It is a pretext that citizens trust their doctor more and are more easily persuaded to be vaccinated. Finally, compensation is also provided for pharmacists to participate in informing and facilitating citizens who come to schedule the dates for the vaccine. Today's bill summarises simple and practicable solutions to complex problems affecting citizens' lives, but also the country's overall course. The Ministry's forecast is that in two years from today, from 35% of the realisation will go to 90%. For the first time in such a short time there is a leap in digitisation and the use of technology in the public sector, looking to support our country's development orbit and to create an attractive investment environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Mrs. Pulu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Digital Governance is yet another set of legislative examples to avoid. In its first part, one shows how one can effectively cancel a great reform, while in the second and third ways of undermining the great usefulness of digital tools in public policy. I therefore support, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you are once again legislating against the wicked, because issues of enormous economic and social importance for millions of citizens and for which the policy must have the first reason, you are masking them and presenting them as purely technical, as problems they are supposedly in need of technocratic management exclusively. With the fraudulent slogan of “Electronic governance, digitisation, accelerated procedures” and going by saying, you try to bury the citizens who lack digital education, Mr. Pierracakis, so that they cannot distinguish the political substance. And what's that substance? That again with your legislation you are trying on the one hand to hide your government deficit, delays, failures, failures and, on the other, to serve your private interests. You are even presenting the failures of your Government as State failures, as allegedly inadequacies of the administration, for which you have sole responsibility, to justify the sale of public goods and services. You did it in local government with development agencies and private engineers. You did it in the energy with the "filteration" and the sellout of PPC. You did this to health with the non-participation of the private sector in the treatment of pandemic. You did it in education with the twenty-five thousand new clients in college. You did so in social security with private individuals in the pension issue. And the list doesn't end. It wouldn't have saved you, of course. As a first step, therefore, with the Presidential Decree of January, you removed responsibility for the Land register from the Ministry of the Environment and transferred it to the Digital Governance. In other words, it does not matter to you that the object of the body that is primarily a peasant, that is environmental, but the means that is digital. The average is prevalent in the substance. World patent! But there is a political reason behind this institutional distortion and political aiming that is clearly seen with what you are trying to do now in this bill. So let's look at them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government took a project that the SYRIZA Government had made to 60% with the end date of completion of the realisation on 17 January 2020. And for two years he left it to plant by giving two years of extension and an extra now. So it refers to its completion in 2023, that is, it will probably not be a government to judge. Make sure that the uncontrolled unfinished excavations of cemetery accumulate uncontrollably, reach the sky. And it is now coming to pass on them, to literally throw them out of the register, which cannot be completed as a project of great importance for the country, but it closes as - as with Article 3 of this as yet another package ready for privatisation, as another gift to interests. Your old sieve art, gentlemen of the government! It does not, of course, concern you that this is how the substance and the reason for the register to exist. We have been working as a state and as a society for many years to set up a body, so that we can verify all the property rights that the public and every citizen have had and put them on a map. And that is to stop the disputes that prevent real estate from being exploited and investment, but also to stop the violations of public property. So if what you are preparing is not able to achieve the above objectives since the loose ends will actually cancel it, then it is not a Stock Exchange. Find another title you guys are good at slogans and communication. Say it, for example, ‘digital real estate substitute’ or similar. Of course you tell us that 2% of the property involved in objections or correction applications may deprive the rest of the net 98% of the opportunity to enjoy the new digital services of the Stock Exchange. But is that so? No, it's not. Unfortunately, for you the numbers are vague. By 19 July 2021, 44.14% of the rights emblems are out of programme and those that you have involved with the forest maps must be added. So where did you find this impressive and completely misleading 2 to 98? Are you referring only to the outstanding real estate records of the large urban centers? But what's going on in the rest of the country? We probably do not know what is happening because we have not yet posted and therefore there is no evidence of objections or requests for correction. In other words, you create two-speed real estates and owners, those that are supposed to be served after remaining captive of any land in the future because the process is not complete and those that are not served from the outset. In addition, Mr Ministers, you are not concerned that with your problem settings in Article 13 on unknown property you will create chaos and many "bricks" for trespasses. The obvious impossibility of the public that you deliberately leave to investigate effectively the relevant questions within the sixty days' s suffocating margins will certainly lead to a wave of negative answers, so that thousands of owners are forced to take legal action. Unless, of course, interested parties are of great private interests, then we may see as miraculous public consent to strange convenience or silence. This is what the EMSDDA points out to you. The loose ends, then, that you inherit in your supposedly outdated Land register are many. Why is that? Why can you easily justify his full control by your Government, but also his privatization? It doesn't surprise us anymore. The opaque centralism and the slap are stable values of your policy. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and on the situation in the former Yugoslavia. And anyone wonders why you are not covered with the dispute resolution committee referred to in Article 21? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute, please. And privatization will be achieved through accredited engineers under Article 23, which will of course be rewarded by the citizens just like the individuals who have undertaken to carry out the deliberately accumulated pension applications from you. Accredited engineers could be a useful subsidiary institution, but you will use them as a parallel mechanism as a Trojan horse on a private property register b to erode the public character of the Register. Ladies and gentlemen, the works and days of the Mitsotakis Government in the fields of environment and planning constitute a truly dystopic scene. The environmental law of Hatzidakis that cancels the protection of areas of great environmental value, the spatial planning of Mr. Economou, which created great expectations for fast track processes, but managed to delay and town plans that were in progress exclusively with photographic provisions on private interests, the reference of forest maps to be found in the callets with continuous experimentation and regressions and cancellations, even with the cancelled maps, the continuous postponement of the application of the electronic identity of buildings that, of course without completed Landmark would not risk taking responsibility for any private engineer, the non-response of category 5 of the arbitrary cards for which you have only been engaged in the banks but not those of the municipalities, the public and natural persons - again there, Mr. Hatzidakis forgot his obligation on the digital background of 2011 - and now a draft law on this future.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u212	Finish, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u213	This and much more proves that the New Democracy Government under heavy titles supposedly reforms essentially and systematically delivers the country to the great interests. And I would like to end by telling my dear colleague, Mr Snowides, that investments want land use, they want land planning and town planning. They don't want to buy map land. If there are no land uses, do not expect investment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u214	The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos, has the floor now. Then there will be Mr Kavada, Mrs Gara, as we said, and Mr Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Investments, my fellow Member, need money and nothing else and there is no money. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will start from the fact that today's draft law is another Memorandum of Understanding, although it is right to conclude, at some point, the register that started in the period 1995-1999, while it is considered that it will cost a total of over 800 million euros, as we will later present in the Minutes all statements together so that we do not get tired. On the other hand, the Register refers from the first day of the memorandum to the Troika documents, until recently, to the tenth evaluation, noting that the first update of the memorandum was written: ‘The Government is speeding up the completion of the Register and compiling a report on progress, including an action plan’. In the summer of 2010, and it was declared by the HYPEKA, apparently symbolically, the realisation of the rest of the country, as we will testify in the Minutes, obviously not of interest to the country but because of the mandate given by the IMF. In the fifth assessment, now, of the IMF since December 2011 and in the first memorandum it was mentioned, it would have to speed up the agenda with the direct registration of four million rights, digitize the mortgages and transfer all the money to the Stock Exchange by 2015, while the whole process ends in 2020. The year 2020 has, of course, passed and nothing has yet to come to an end. In the second memorandum, the tender of approximately 15 million remaining rights was made by the end of 2012, while the obligation of a full real estate register and offices throughout the country was repeated until 2020. At the same time, there was an attempt to speed up the forest maps with L.4164/2013, while it was mentioned, as the tenth legislative effort for the register until then, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. As indicated in the Third Memorandum Convention, until July 2016, the Forest Law would have been implemented and the Land Accounting Operation Plan would have been drawn up throughout the country, which was then a prerequisite for the Memorandum, with Community funding of up to EUR 85 million for the remainder of the holding. In the recent tenth assessment, it is now written that 95% of all maps will be finalised by the first half of 2022, while it has been delayed, due to the extensions made by the creditors with the pandemic. It is also mentioned that at the moment, 50% of the country has approved maps and has opened 28% of real estate offices, seven offices and nineteen branches. In any case, it seems that, yes, creditors have a record of at least the state, but the public is not. As we have stressed, in the debates on state balance sheet and balance sheet, there is no record of the public's fixed assets and there is no record of standing, and the Court of Auditors has confirmed it. Isn't that really a priority? Is that not the 'all in light' that the Minister said earlier? In particular, the Court of Auditors’ report for 2018 states that the total number of properties held by the EBRD is about seventy thousand, of which only for the two thousand five hundred twenty-nine have been made an estimate of their fair value. At the seventy - seven thousand, then, only two thousand five hundred twenty - nine have been evaluated. Isn't it a shame? Isn't that a priority? In the 2018 balance sheet, there appears to be seventy thousand five hundred real estates worth EUR 900 million, that is, under 13 000 euros each. Is it possible, when it comes to two hundred ten tourist properties, such as hotels, marinas, ski resorts, golf and others, eight Olympics and about seventy thousand real estate titles of private public property? As regards the average accounting value of each twenty-three real estates in the HSY, can it be EUR 322 and the total 36.659? How can this be justified, EUR 322 for a property? Aren't these a priority? As we pointed out, is it not a robbery and a criminal offence the transfer without valuation of the public's identities to the supreme foreigners and especially to ETA in a foreign entity? It seems, however, that the lenders, after having taken what they had and did not have the state, are now interested in private property, which in the present system, without its digitisation, is very difficult. How will they make electronic auctions and transfers with a button from some offshore without the Greek homes being digitised? It's hard, very difficult. So that's why they demand it, while our government presents it as its own success. As far as the link between TAXIS and the Stock Exchange is concerned, the reason is quite obvious. It is the continuation of the robbery of the Greeks, for which, moreover, the new bankruptcy law - an abortion was passed. Obviously the troika with its memorials, the institutions later and the enhanced supervision, today, with its assessments, with changes in names, namely, so that people do not understand that nothing has changed - absolutely nothing has changed, the memoranda continues - they are not interested in the proper organisation of the public, but in the plundering of Greece and the Greeks. After all, as we have said, since the beginning of Greece's accession to the IMF by PASOK, when a country is not officially bankrupt, its citizens are going bankrupt, because they are taking over the repayment of its debts, which unfortunately continue to increase, with the current government adding even more, more than EUR 30 billion, in just two years, despite the sale. We will not go on talking about the articles in the bill, after they have already been analysed by our rapporteur, recalling only the great issue with the forest maps, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, so that the citizens have rebelled in the province. The provisions on digitalisation for the 5G, as well as incentives for audiovisual productions, etc., have been mentioned by my colleague. In addition, in the operation of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation all 24/7 in Article 34, which obviously needs to be done. Specifically in the provisions concerning the promotion of 5G antennas and the SSP's derogation and remuneration for approval in Articles 42 to 45, what will be the real economic benefit? There is no costing from the General Accounting Office of the State or any other reference. He never submits right invoices here. Do you really take into account, as far as 5G is concerned, health or visual pollution issues from this derogating antenna? Certainly, however, this is not a question of graphics, since the subject concerns Switzerland and many other Western countries, later filing publications in the Minutes. Finally, of course, it is not this bill that is in direct need today, but rather, creditors and some other domestic interests, business interests. Of course, we are not opposed to the organisation of the public administration, as we say in our programme, but we must achieve it in the interests of the citizens and of production, not the real estate speculators and the business interests in the context of a change in the property regime of Greece, which all the governments of the memorandums promote, all of which is to say! Furthermore, on some other issues, the insurance promoted by the government in a insidious way, just before the closure of the Parliament, is another crime against the Greeks, and we do not understand the reason, since his current Mr Brutsis - according to his proportionate study at the time, in February 2020, as well as in the pension adequacy study - was absolutely viable. So far, however, we haven't seen such studies on the new one, waiting for the National Accounting Authority to submit them. It has not yet done so, we expect it, and from what we count, it will result in a huge budget gap of EUR tens of billion, which will lead to another bankruptcy in our country. On the other hand, it is not possible for the Minister to promote the placement of supplementary pensions in investment products, which certainly do not exist in Greece. We have no right stock exchange for such products. So the investment in foreigners will be chosen, with the result that the money outflow is followed abroad, further reducing our country's already problematic liquidity. Finally, how is it possible - truly - to guarantee the public with respect to any investment losses on pensions? Aren't we all the public with the taxes we pay? How's the nerve - really nerve! - the Minister of the country's special clearance and sales missions to guarantee performances of "Mandov" from 43% to 68%, as we will be tabling in the Minutes? He doesn't know what happened to Mr. Madov? Of course, we will come back many times on the subject, hoping to help prevent all parties in opposition, since it is our obligation to our country and our children. In relation to the 2% increase in the basic salary, announced by Mr Hatzidakis, unregulated as usual, this is obviously a burden on the workers. Suffice to see the rises in vegetables - more than 30% - in other foods, gasoline and so on. The official inflation of low incomes, known to all of us, can be maintained, but of course the citizens see the rapid reduction in the market value of their incomes, which, of course, is far more than 2% of the increase that the Minister gives. It is also important that, instead of the government building dams, we know its lack of agricultural crops, which is constantly escalating, water shortages, that is, promoting the sale of water companies, noting that, where it was launched, the price of water went up in a very short period of time. We have written too many analyses on the subject, stressing that water is the biggest richest source of the future, and there are already wars on its possession. It is not possible, therefore, to plan its sale, such as the rest of the public-benefited networks of the country, which, obviously, are viewing, speculators, for example, the electricity grid of the households of TEDO with almost 5 billion fixed assets, much more since it will be used for the new 5G technology, while it is an entirely profitable business and the most valuable asset of PPC. When this happens, since this government is not going to leave anything standing, how much more, when it wastes money on loan as if it does not exist tomorrow - as in 2004-2009 with the well-known painful results that it will, unfortunately, pay many generations of Greeks, our children and children of our children - the electricity prices will also be on a sharp upward path, as has been seen in all the countries that have started something like this, even in Germany, thus re-stated their respective "PPC". Honestly, I am sorry to say this, we regret that we are constantly being told and very saddened, but unfortunately, this government is not just inadequate but dangerous, since it has already accelerated the change of ownership status of Greece, with the final result that all Greeks will become cheaply impoverished debt slaves in Germany. He will not hesitate to even hand over national sovereignty to the Turks so that he can continue to borrow. That is what it cares about, that it can continue to borrow, while it is the only government that, while it leads the country from bad to worse - to health, to the economy, to national, almost everywhere - triumphantly triumphs, with impressive courage, in the sense that it presents its incredible failures, as supposedly successes, with the subsidised natural support of the media. Even for the loans from the Reconstruction Fund - for which the Prime Minister said he would try not to get it - he has given our government's assets as a guarantee, signing a scandalous contract that will be discussed tomorrow, which the Minister responsible has probably not even read. In this context, if citizens continue to bend their heads, unfortunately, convinced by the betrayal of the SYRIZA, that there is no alternative - Mr Tsipras, to say it more objectively - they will experience unprecedented situations, while due to the massive lending of twin deficits and twin debts, the next very tough memorandum is a given, without any disaster. It's the reality we'll see soon. In conclusion, we want to emphasise, once again, how solutions exist, especially for a rich, gifted country such as Greece. National vision does not exist, no plan exists a government that really works for the benefit of the citizens, hoping that the Greeks will understand it before it is too late, before the new memorandum is imposed that will be far more painful than all the previous ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. We will now give the floor to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos, to develop the amendment under a general number of 1038 and a special 24, the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. Immediately after that, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Syrigos, will be followed to put it on an article in the amendment. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening and I apologise for the interruption. The amendment we have tabled in due course has three aspects. The first concerns the reopening of education structures in the context of pandemic. The second aspect has to do with the Muslim priesthoods of Thrace and the Vacuf Rhodes and Kos. And the third aspect is the specific accounts for research funds, in which the relevant State Secretary, Mr Syrigos, will be placed in detail. So I come first of all to the reopening of school units. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all want our schools to function by living, normally, in September and also all of us want all the educational staff of the country, students, teachers, all to operate in a context of maximum security. I also want to believe that we consider the vaccine the most important weapon we have against this unprecedented health crisis. And I would like to inform the House that over 75% of our teachers have already been vaccinated, and I would like to thank them publicly for that. However, I would like to stress that this is not enough. We need others and we need others to ensure the security that our school needs for the whole educational community. So the amendment we have tabled provides for self-evident. It provides a safe return framework for the educational community. It provides that our teachers can come to school, whether fully vaccinated, and if they are not fully vaccinated, they will have to carry out laboratory tests - I stress it, laboratory tests - so that they can come and achieve what we all want, which is this safe environment. It also provides a framework for much faster recruitment, if anyone is ill and needs to be absent, an extra procedure - if you want - from tables already drawn up, so that very quickly, with rapid procedures to fill out any gaps. This is about the procedure for schools. A word about Thrace's Muslim priesthoods. The amendment applies basically to the same forecasts that apply to church schools and to the educational staff of the Muslim priesthoods in Thrace. With regard to Vakuf Rhodes and Kos - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - this regulation closes an important legislative gap. A basic principle is the need for transparency in the economic functioning of these agencies. It is therefore clear that the legal personality of the management bodies is non-State legal persons with a public interest purpose and, in particular, the maintenance, maintenance and operation of Muslim monuments and others. Their administration consists of Greek Muslims from Rhodes and Kos. The Chairperson and the administrator shall submit ‘outside’. It is possible to address to the Legal Council of the State on matters relating to them. In short, there is a modern legislative framework for the very operation of these organisations for the benefit of all, namely the Greek Muslims of Rhodes and Kos, but also in general, of local societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u218	All right, thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u221	Here, Mr Syrigo, you have the floor to put yourself on an article in the amendment that you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is the issue of research funds in the specific accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u223	Minister, please make it quite clear if it is an article in the amendment or the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u224	The amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u225	The amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u226	There is another article in the law, I am referring to the amendment. The subject of the special accounts of research funds has been covered by many legislative regulations over several years since 1997. I would remind you that in the first phase there was an obligation for academics to pay 30% of their gross income. Then, in 2000, 5%, 10%, or 15% of gross revenue, depending on the subject, i.e. if it was related to rights received from books or works directly related to the free profession. And then, under the 2017 arrangement, it is estimated at 7% of the net revenues. Some PPE had moved forward, they were careful, and all these years they went on and pushed the members to pay their money. The majority of the PPE Groups, however, had not shown the required standardity for many years, resulting in enough large sums of debt being accumulated. However, there were ambiguities in the method of calculation. Finally, in November 2020 with a ministerial decision passed by my predecessor, Mr Vassilis Digalakis, it was clearly laid down the procedure by which the EPP members could finally claim these amounts. And the first debt-setting operations were sent in December 2020. Subsequently, the transactions to identify a debt were sent to all those who were due from 2000 to 2017. When they were sent, the following were found: The first was that after twenty-one years many of the debtors, from those who were alleged to be liable, did not have the means of proof required to establish whether they were indeed from a free profession, or whether they were from other sources, for example shares, companies and others, which did not relate to their scientific status. It is recalled that, under the current legislation, every citizen is obliged to keep his tax data for five years - it is the time when tax claims were cancelled - and, respectively, there was a problem with the TAXIS system. For example, since 1999, the TAXIS system has had no data on this issue before 2003. Therefore, anyone who challenged those amounts was unable to prove it and thus had the constitutional right of the previous hearing to be granted. Another problem was - Mr President, one more minute - that many of the debtors had already died. In this case, the debts to the EUPM are personal. There was a huge problem, because they went to offspring to take them to the heirs, who did not know what was going on and there was an objective failure to identify from the heirs. In view of these problems, it was considered that 20 years could not be regarded as reasonable to the principle of proportionality, and I will only tell you one indicative point: we were proclaiming EUR 10, EUR 15, EUR 20 claims in 1999 or EUR 2000. According to Article 111 of the Criminal Code, if I make a felony, which is not punished for life in prison, this is recorded after 15 years. EUR 12, or EUR 15, or the EUR 2, which was 1999, could not be deleted. So what we do is follow the procedures that exist. For example, Law 4820/2021 on the organisation and operation of the Court of Auditors regulates that all public bodies are obliged to keep records for 10 years, and any claim to search for a management deficit is recorded after 10 years. In order to ensure proper compliance with the procedure for collecting those claims by the debtors, we have carried the procedure over the last 10 years, i.e. starting from 1-1-2010 and thus the debtors can easily seek the relevant documents to prove their claims to the public authorities. It is in line with the principles of legal certainty and the trust of the head of state to be able to prove what it claims. At the same time, we have given the possibility - which was not in place in the previous regulation - to those who have paid more than 7% of what they owed, calculated on net revenue - that they had paid 15% on the impurities - to be able to offset these amounts for the last five years. It was a time limit that goes, is in line with the Civil Code, as to the requirements that have been given for the non-registration of claims that have been granted to unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would ask the Ministry of Education's political leadership to remain on the table, because there has already been an interest in asking questions from Mr Heta - I say them in the order when his hands were raised - by Mr Katssis and Mr Kattinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u228	No, Mr President, Mr Famelos wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u229	All right, Mr. Famellos, united is the parliamentary group. Before we begin this cycle, however, Mr Heta, a minute has been asked for the floor. You requested, Mr Bukouros, the floor for your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, after the questions, so as not to interrupt the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u231	Good, Mr. Hetas, Mr. Famelos, Mr. Katrinis, and then Mr. Bukokouros, and if there's anyone else from another parliamentary group who wants to ask. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. She didn't have time to dawn, Mrs. Kerameau, we're here again. Three days we've been here. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] It is a pleasure, therefore, to have an amendment in his hands and to see recruitment. All right, who doesn't want people to be recruited, assistant teachers, special instructor members and everything else? I mean: you say here that if they, permanently, employed and others, have not taken the vaccine, they will not be hired and you have them do PCR or rapid test. When you legislate, you should know that it can be applied in practice. You've been doing it with students who won't have the right to enter universities since September, and you've been doing it with teachers. As you said, you are satisfied because 70% has already been vaccinated, so the overwhelming majority and maybe the number will grow well. How will these people give 20 euros, 30 euros, or 40 euros a day for students to go to work or attend the course? Students, who have kids who live with 100 euros a month or work for a dirt. How? In practice, I am not penalising them, because you are actually punishing them. Also, second question, I was a little frightened here, Minister: It says in the second paragraph at the end of Article 1 "with a decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs" - good time, your decision - may be further defined in the event of repeated infringements" without specifying. So, what way? We'll whip them, take them off, put them in the sun. What exactly does it mean by the Minister's decision that there will be other consequences than that they will not receive their money, that the remuneration will not be paid and that they will not all have the insurance contributions? Also, Mrs Keramou, answer me in the second section. I told you yesterday in private. I'll say it now. I always play with open cards. You responded to me by saying that the reason why the Ministry is not ending and you in particular, while it seems that there is a mood from the government MPs, like us, to end the matter with the luxurious teachers on the 2010 list who are inseparable, is the decision of the Council of State. You said: it's the decision. That's it. There's nothing I can do. I have responded as a citizen of this country and a Member of Parliament, and I say: can the state of two hundred and fifty multitudes who have offered Greek birds to society and have been afflicted since 2010 to take care of them and hire them? Now you hired eleven thousand five hundred. And you did well. More to get. So I say this: it is up to you, Minister, to hire them. The opinion of the Council of State says that the relevant Minister or Minister may settle earlier existing situations. I cannot be so wrong - we as Greek Solution brought the matter to the House seven, eight times - or more than fifty Members of your Parliament. And the Undersecretary of Education Mrs. Makrie has left it to you in your office and said: Here, do it. Why isn't that so? So all these government MPs - over 50 are - irrelevant to the matter? Are we all here unrelated? Are the teachers, the two hundred fifty families irrelevant, too? Why don't we just finish this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mr. Undersecretary, here we are again. Last night the meeting for the Ministry of Education bill ended. I say this because the first question I would like to ask you is why all you have in it and not just the issue of dealing with the security issue as you put it in schools were not included in yesterday's debate? Why has the consultation, the briefing of this House, not been exploited in committee? And I repeat not only on the issues of COVID, but also on the issues raised by Mr Syrigos. You want something to hide? Would you like to surprise the House? Do you want to avoid a debate in committees? Until yesterday, I repeat, we were discussing a very important bill from the Ministry of Education. That's my first question. The second thing I would like to ask, because I confess that your position has created stimuli, is that you said that you wanted to solve a major safety problem in the field of education. Minister, let me tell you that you have also created a major safety problem then and functioning of education, introducing the minimum import base and leaving tens of thousands of excellent students outside universities. I do not know if you have regretted everything that has been discussed here, but I must tell you that you, too, have not followed any of the proposals put forward by the educational area to ensure that there is a safe education. I say this because all the proposals from the educational community concerned with COVID, which concerned schools, the density of pupils in schools, the staffing of schools, the priority procedure for the vaccination of teachers and the analyses, i.e. the tracking of teachers, have not so far been followed, particularly in the first half of 2021. So the question is if you have regretted all this. Do you have anything else to suggest? We have heard nothing about what the educational community has put forward. You come with a single vaccine tool, but for all the rest you have said nothing. Will you follow the education community's proposals on all the essential safety issues in schools? Leave the minimum import base. Mr. Mitsotakis took responsibility for him. There's gonna be so many kids - and excellent kids - out of training. Thirdly, in order to strengthen our society and the educational community in the field of vaccination, we should have a strong health protection net. Have you contacted the Ministry of Health so that we can have primary health hospitals in order to be able to support general morbidity, detection of symptomatic or asymptomatic and so support our society and educational community and our schools? You put a piece in the conversation, but you leave all the essentials out. And let's get to the point. You put a question of analysis and an issue of calibration in case of non-vaccination, as to whether there is a case in the educational community. The question is: Why don't you prescribe the analyses? Why should teachers be penalised, and not as we have said about the whole society, a public system of safety monitoring rather than'rear', which you have unfortunately done last year with the self test, so that we can have a reliable record and so security in schools? And why, even those who have a health problem or some starting point that does not allow them, at the request of their doctor, to proceed to vaccination, are also forced to cost and to be excluded? Have you predicted that? We think you've got a lot of clips. Did you not bring it yesterday because your amendment is handy and did you suddenly bring it today? Even in many other elements today there are serious problems, with regard to gateways to exit, in recording, as records with EGE are not consolidated, people are waiting in queues for incredible hours to do analyses. Is that where you'll send the teachers? You see that, in addition to the deficits that exist in the essence of the health system, you also have to the extent that you propose serious issues. And, of course, we see that, because you cannot manage all of this, all you seem to be able to manage is a punishing process which leaves a window for strengthening limited contract time. Instead of going to the schools, instead of even having teachers throughout the school year, you are insisting on reasonable quarters and on logic that appear in the amendment, as we have seen in the time available to assess. So why don't you go ahead with a positive campaign? Why don't you work with the municipalities so that we can get closer to the entire educational community? Why do you use tools, such as the hundred - five that insulted the new generation? All of these are questions that you have not answered, and that is how you yourself create as a government unreliable on the issue of universal vaccination, which is the main issue of our lives. And we must say this: SYRIZA is in favour of universal vaccination and urges society not to be taken away from the untrustworthyness of a government that is dangerous to the issue of pandemic and does not help society to fight this battle. Finally, Mr Syrigo, on the subject of the special account, we cannot understand why he did not come in yesterday, why he has not entered the normal procedure, what exactly you want to avoid, because this is not a debate that has an extraordinary feature so that he should enter the Ministry of Digital Governance's bill on the register. You ask many questions about exactly what you are pursuing. And it is clear that you have, as Mr Katsis says, an article in the bill, Article 46, which deals with these matters again. But that's not a legacy. That's not exquisite. This is a predicament, and this is also an insult to parliamentary function. As you can understand and worry us and cause serious problems in society all that you do. Therefore, a serious issue that we need to discuss is how schools open up properly. You have no armoured health system, you have no tracking, you do not support the educational community in everything it has asked for to work on schools and universities, because we want schools and universities to work, and you only come with crowns that divide and punish rather than inspire universal vaccination throughout society. It's just that you don't want to support health. Mr Mitsotakis has recently spoken of the closure of hospitals and mergers. And you want people to talk to us about the issue of vaccination! Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education also lowers the level of politics and the level of progress in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, it is really impressive and sad at the same time that, while we had three days of discussion about the Ministry of Education's bill, one amendment is now coming, after a three-day debate to prove that, in the end, the Ministry of Education's political leadership is neither as excellent nor reformist as it is being employed. In the case of vaccinations or tests of teachers, the government is entering a process of overall strategy where nine out of ten provisions relating to pandemic tend to bring them into line with delayed amendments. After all, we all agree that teachers themselves will contribute to the safe operation of the educational units. And I want to believe that there is no one in this Chamber who does not agree that we should ensure the safe operation of schools for children and teachers. I am sure teachers will contribute to this effort. Therefore, a framework needs to be established, but this is mainly up to the ambition, which is proven, of the training officials. This, Mr President, is incomprehensible and insulting - and I think it is also indicative of the way in which the government perceives public finances and the issue of equal treatment - is the provision for the gift of university teachers' obligations in the 1999-2009s. Mr Syrigos is here, and I wonder whether he has the courage to look into his colleagues' eyes not only in Panteion, but also throughout the university community after an amendment. Instead, Mr Syrgyrgos should tell us that in the past few years his colleagues have been pushing several ways to prevent the law from being implemented, either by blocking ministerial decisions or by delaying the imputation by the PPE, or by all the procedures - of course, in 2018 Mr Gavroglou came in and opened the ferry, where the requirement of retention from the exercise of a free profession was reduced to 1/3, which is something that has been preceded - so today, on the last day, in a bill which has more amendments than articles - it is also a typical function of the government, how it perceives the parliamentary process - and brings an amendment that deletes debts from unconscious universities. And it does this at the same time as it says very simply to those who paid 'What to do, you paid and all this is not offset'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And since it is not mentioned in the report of the General Accountancy Office, I would like the Minister to answer how many millions of euros are, Mr Syrgos, what you are depriving us of today of the amendment you are bringing from the accounts of the Greek universities, to do the favor of specific teachers who have been pushing for years to pass this arrangement. Because you say nicely that it is EUR 60, well said about the cases of colleagues who, unfortunately, have deceived, but you do not tell us how many tens of millions of euros you are depriving us of today from the Greek universities in times of difficulty with reduced funding with this amendment that you are bringing. I consider this amendment to be insulting, Mr President - and I conclude with it - the vast majority of the consistent academics who have been applying the law over the years and who have paid their obligations, as is the case with the millions of taxpayers in the country who pay or owe, and are currently being asked to pay their debts, otherwise they are in danger of seizures and auctions. Thus, your account of a government which applies rules and laws uniform to all citizens is essentially degraded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, too. Mr Buquoir, the Minister will now answer, because you have asked for the floor on another point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u238	After all, Mr President, I have another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u239	Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President, as I thank colleagues for their comments. I'm starting with the Greek solution. First of all, there's no arrangement for students yet. What you mentioned is not right. There's no setup. I remind you that pandemic is a dynamic process. That is why we consider it very important that we discuss regularly with the experts, depending on the development of the pandemic. Until the course begins, we have many weeks and more weeks for the universities. We've been ahead of us for months. So you understand that for this very reason, as you know, a joint ministerial decision is issued every week with all the measures that are in force for that week on the basis of the latest developments. Why are we legislating so early now? Because there are specific procedures that we need to prevent, so that they can be recruited more quickly. So, it's inaccurate what you said about students. There's no setting for students right now. But here I want us to be clear. Let us get a clear signal - and I want to believe that we will all emit this together - in favour of vaccination. Indeed, the proportion of teachers is high, one of the highest. But in education there is one issue. If an instructor is ill, then the service is not provided. And even though the percentage is high, we're talking about an important number, if it's ill, there'll be issues created in education. That is why we anticipate this process with faster recruitment than normal, so that they can be replaced in very fast time and that anyone can recover from the disease. As always, however, further details, as is done every week by each joint ministerial decision, are given on the basis of what we are going to discuss with experts. On the other point, Mr Heta, on the 2008 tables, there has been a very great debate on parliamentary control. We should be happy to discuss this issue again in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, but many such questions have been answered, on this issue and, as you know, there is a legal issue. And I'm coming now to Mr. Femello. Mr Famelle, the reason why the amendment did not come yesterday is Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Obviously the amendment was ready. However, if he had come to the Ministry of Education's bill, it would have been late. She was ready and she had already been filed. Now that he's here in the D.C.D.'s bill, it's time. Apparently she was ready after she was made public. He could have come to the Ministry of Education bill but it would have been late. So that's why. I would like to believe that everyone here thinks it is very important to observe the Rules of Procedure. Now, as far as the minimum import base is concerned, I think, Mr Famele, that it has been discussed extensively seven days, four in committee and three in plenary. You said we were never invading proposals from the educational community. That's not right, Mr. Famele. Teachers asked to have a free test. So we built a special platform. It's the first population team that had a special platform for free testing. Teachers were asked to prioritise their vaccination, which is what happened. Indeed, they have responded excellently and I thank them once again. It's all done. Also, they asked to go EAFRD steps for a test. That's all done. In addition, it has been discussed - and it is a government proposal - the establishment of vaccination centres at each university. This is also being done. So the picture is not the way you present it. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] And a word about the duration of the contracts. Look, to figure out what Professional Opposition says, does the Civic Opposition say we hire teachers for a year without knowing if there will be a need to cover? Is that what Qualified Opposition suggests? So, pay two people for one place? We say that it is very important to cover the need when it comes to it. For example, if someone gets sick, it's very important that people be able to get sick. But, on the other hand, if we did what you say about flexible contracts and flexible employment relationships, where is the flexible relationship? We say that there is an emergency and that this must be covered. We propose three-month contracts, which can be renewed as necessary. But if the message is that we will pay for all year round two people for one place, without knowing if there is a need. As far as Mr Katrin is concerned, and the point he raised, I think I specifically answered. The reason was clear. The amendment was tabled by the day before yesterday in order to be in good time. Mr President, I would like to close this. I think that here the aim of all of us is one: to encourage every member of the educational community to be vaccinated. And I say that for our teachers, I say this for our students, I say this for the students because, as you know, the platform for the fifteen to seventeen has already been opened and the platform for over twelve years is also open. This is the big bet, because there is no more effective weapon against pandemic than the vaccine itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister. And from the Minister, we go to the State Secretary, Mr. Syrigo. I guess the subject of education isn't over yet. Here, Mr. Syrigos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to give a brief answer to Mr Katrin. Mr Katrin, the principle of proportionality is a fundamental principle in law. I said earlier that under Article 111 of the Criminal Code, you are doing a felony in 15 years' time. 2, 10 or 15 euros 20 years ago were not deleted. If you do not understand that, then we are entering the draconian law process, which is only there to be and which is not implemented by anyone. We have for the first time here - I stress for the first time - a ministerial decision which enabled universities to send debt-setting actions to all the LPA members. It's never happened before. It happened in November-December. And here, because they are too many years in debt, all these problems have come to the surface. They're practical problems. That at the moment they exist - they have been sent from all universities - the transactions to identify debts from 1999 to 2017 are a reality. A second reality is that public services for many of these years are unable to confirm these amounts, if it is a sum derived from a liberal profession, if it is from a company's participation, from shares, from bonds, from a foreign transfer. He's not in position, why? Because, many times, tax bills, tax laws, have changed over the years. We are therefore coming, and we are building a stable framework, all the amounts from 2010 to today, and for the first time those who were consistent with the payment of the PPE-DE, for the first time, have the possibility of offsetting, since these amounts have been calculated at a higher rate than the current 7% rate on net revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u243	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Bukokokouros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, simply because the debate has been opened and we have been on top of the agenda, but on my previous position - and because I always want to be consistent with the time I am entitled to - I have not answered a number of questions and for reasons of recording in the Minutes - which means parliamentary and historical registration, at the same time - I want to say that an attempt has been made by the Civic Opposition to create impressions on the Commission anywhere, and there has been an attempt to archiving cases 'where you were.' It is a pity, indeed, that it is an undertaking of institutional degradation the mistake of an official, all of whom are aware of, that the wings of the House are exploited to create impressions - and indeed a mistake, which he himself has appealed to, admitted and corrected - that there should be a reference to the Chamber to attempt to cancel cases 'whereabouts' and, if you wish, to try side by side to be linked to issues of topicality, which, in our view, are impotent and, after all, the procedures and appeals provided for in the law have been brought to justice. I would like to say - and to say this in all respects - that blind attack on institutional authorities and institutions does not affect any particular faction. It's hitting the entire political system. And here - and this is my permanent personal view - there is no one antisystemic. Anyone who enters this Chamber with the vote of the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, serves the rules of democracy, the rules of parliamentism, and therefore, is part of this function and we are all, of course, trying to improve it. So, and I am closing down so that the Civic Opposition comes and attempts to raise the mistake of a Member State's official, who too are pressing the same with us on a political point, we consider it unacceptable and we want this to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr Buquoir. Mr. Kavvadas, from the New Democracy and the beautiful Lefkada, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill to the House is a major step forward in modernising. It confirms the government's top political choice to progress rapidly in the development of digital services that facilitate citizens' lives. Already in this area Greek citizens have seen the difference. They enjoy digital and electronic services which would be unthinkable even to think about two years ago. The bill that comes today to be voted on has as a point of reference a field in which the Greek State recorded a low efficiency indicator in its implementation, as well as in terms of the level of civil service. I'm referring to the National Register. We are one of the few European countries that does not have an integrated property register, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is a problem of decades that the New Democracy Government wants and has to resolve. The provisions of this draft law simplify and digitise the procedures in the main field of trade, of citizens with the Register. Most of all, however, citizens are being facilitated, illegitimately treated and landfilling procedures accelerated. With the current data, the start of operation of the Stock Exchange in an area is combined with a very timely and bureaucratic process. A statement shall be submitted by the citizen, followed by a review of the lawfulness, we shall bring forward the objections, an examination of the objections made by the committees, a revision of the census and, finally, a registration of the census books. We are talking about procedures that last up to four years. Under the rules of the bill, this year is halved. The process is completely changed and the process is simplified. Now, if there is a problem, citizens will be able to apply for correction after the post. Therefore, immediately after the posting, land will be able to be included in the operating register, without waiting for citizens years to consider all objections. The Recording Office will correct all errors that can manifestly and unpredictablely and reshape the real estate tables and charts. As long as the committees consider differences, an act will be adopted at the same time and the first records will be made available in the registers. There will be reports on the property in question on the existence of rights of individuals and will be forwarded to the Certification Committees. It is a presumption that these disputes will be recorded in stockfarmers, which ensures the security of trade. In other words, the claim will be recorded, but the offences will be able to proceed at the same time. Upon accelerating the functioning of the Stock Exchange, citizens, lawyers, engineers and notaries shall be given direct access to the archives. Two hundred thousand professionals across Greece will be facilitated and, of course, millions of citizens will be made easier. Citizens in Greece and abroad will have access to data everywhere twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, without suffering, without tails to services, without unnecessary costs, easily and quickly. Certifications and all kinds of evidence and documents will be possible for the citizen to take them remotely without requiring the presence and visit of the service. This was only about 35% of the territory because that is only where the realisation has been completed. Moreover, the arrangements will relate to property in the whole country. In Lefkada, the new realisation has gone very well, since the collection of statements has exceeded 100% of the estimated rights, so the benefits of these settings will be immediate. From there on, it is particularly important that the facilities established by the bill on citizens include the following: firstly, five months before the deadline is extended until 31 December 2022 to make corrections to the initial entries. This is of special importance, because with the previous institutional framework on 31 December 2021 all the properties recorded as an unknown owner would be held to the Greek State. And I would like to call on my fellow citizens and on Lefkada to make use of this new extension to solve any problems with their real estates and declare them. Thus, they will ensure their ownership through real estate and will not be involved in time-consuming and cost-consuming processes later on. Secondly, the provision that the burden of proving the ownership of the immovable property will now have the public. In addition, the State has a mandatory sixty-day deadline to respond to the request for an unknown correction. To date there has been no timeframe. Thirdly, the introduction of a mediation procedure. Citizens can try to resolve their differences by mediation before they have recourse to the courts, which means less costs and less time. Fourthly, the setting-up of three-member committees in which citizens will be able to appeal if the head of a real estate office refuses to register an act or rejects a request for correction. Fifthly, the introduction of the electronic property transfer file, which simplifies and digitizes all procedures for the purchase or sale of a property. Seventeen certificates shall be digitalised, which must now be sought and issued by various services in paper form. This is a regulation which, along with all the previous ones, will nullify the suffering and bureaucracy of real estate sales. Which in turn means attracting investment, which the country has so much need after ten years of crisis and a year and a half of pandemic. Finally, a reference to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance to regain public and public-private property of the municipalities who appear as an unknown owner in the first real estate records and are automatically located in the municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is very positive, because it enables many OTAs to use it, to absorb Community resources and to reshape public spaces for the benefit of public space and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Digital Governance, the Minister and the Undersecretaries, whom they deserve and congratulations, we have another excellent bill today. A bill that is no longer a wish nor a announcement. The digital state is a applied policy, the benefits of which are enjoyed by Greek citizens who see ease and simplification of their lives. With new groundbreaking services putting an end to bureaucracy. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, did not come to manage the image of a state that remained in yesterday. It builds up a new high-demand digital state that serves and facilitates citizens' activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. I will immediately go to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, for Amendment No 1037/23.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, let's talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u249	I see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u250	To speak to Members, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u251	I know, I know. And Mrs. Gara is in committee, and Mr. Screkas is busy. What am I supposed to do now? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please don't shout! It'll be a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u252	It is unacceptable that what is being done is done! They're bringing amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u253	Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, I would like to inform the ladies and gentlemen of the amendment with a general number of 1037 and a special number of 23. It's about this. The proposed Article 1 first clarifies, firstly, the application of the criterion for the conclusion of operating aid and the holding of projects outside competitive procedures with an explicit provision for transfers and, secondly, an exception is introduced to the general rule of paragraph 3b of Article 7 of Law 4414/2016, according to which all PV plants for which applications for a definitive link after 1-1-2021 are submitted to conclude operating aid contracts only on participation in a competitive tender procedure. The time limit for the conclusion of operating aid contracts outside the competitive process from the end of 2021 to the end of 2022 shall also be postponed in order to allow those interested parties who will apply for a definitive link after 1-1-2021. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are allowing individual citizens, natural persons to build a photovoltaic of up to 400 KW and be able to enjoy a stable dolphin - which is, of course, defined by ministerial decision - and not to participate in competitive procedures so that we can help for a year yet, by the end of 2022, extend and enable many of our fellow citizens to participate in the country's efforts to achieve the energy transition and build a small photovoltaic and thus continue and maintain their professional activity or enjoy this result in the invested chapter that they will do. Of course, this is where we also give farmers' main occupations up to 100 kW to be able to build a photovoltaic, again with a specific turf set by a ministerial decision and whose price will also cover the increased proportionate cost of the conditions of connection, so with a better than the present one. This, I repeat, for individual photovoltaics, for independent producers. It will be nominated in this very near future by a ministerial decision. With the second article proposed in the amendment, we propose correcting the compensation price for PV stations on the non-interconnected islands. Again it refers to small photovoltaic stations that have been built mainly by natural persons who, in 2014, after the new deal, had received a reduction of the turf in 2014. We come and, in fact, we increase their compensation price by 10%, because this results from calculations made by our Ministry and in this way we restore order. The proposed Article 3 provides the possibility for holders of authorisations for the production of electricity from wind power stations to make use of their underwater interconnection to channel their energy produced to existing or planned projects by the Independent Transmission Manager of IPTO. We are talking here about applications for the development of wind parks that had a special condition for installing an electrical interconnection. Since we are talking about non-interconnected islands and there was no other way of transferring their energy, we are actually coming here and limiting their capacity, we are reducing the percentage that they can install. We are giving this possibility, because legislation has now changed and, of course, they cannot have this specific condition nor have a fixed compensation price, increased even so that they can cover the extra costs of this interconnection. We do not want to build new lines that we do not need. There is already a programme for interconnecting the islands, so we are giving those who already have a production permit to limit their production and to use up to 50% of the space created through the electricity interconnection, when it is built. Of course, let us say that in Crete, where the small interconnection has been completed, we have already given the opportunity to build 100 MW of independent small photovoltaic production up to 500 KW and, of course, we have also provided 40 MW of installed power for self-production and, of course, they will also use the existing small interconnection which is already in operation. The proposed Article 4 of the amendment extends for seven years the power-generating contract at the High Performance Symbol, with a price that will also be determined by a decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, as applicable to the other renewable energy stations. And here when the new deal had become, as you know, the photovoltaic turf of the RES had been limited, which had accepted this reduction and extended their operation for seven years. So we are also giving the possibility in this case, and so we are helping the country's production base very much, since in fact these RIS are being used either to produce primary agricultural products or industrial products and we are therefore maintaining their competitiveness. With the proposed article 5, we allow the competent ministers to make a joint decision at the Technical Chamber of Greece on the implementation and management of programmes for energy saving activities in the household-building sector, energy efficiency and upgrading of housing using RES. Here we give the opportunity to conclude a programme contract as a Ministry with the Technical Chamber of Greece and to enable the Technical Chamber to be that, which will create, develop, operate, manage, manage the new platform that will welcome the applications for the new "Software", which, today, we have had a press conference and announced the new terms and conditions that can be integrated. In this way, we put the TEE as a serious pillar that supports public administration, and of course, it supports a very important project, "I save at home", which you know creates thousands of jobs in construction and reduces the electricity bill through the savings they achieve, which upgrades their buildings or homes. The sixth article of this amendment regulates in particular the conclusion of service or work contracts by the Energy Regulatory Authority specifically for IT systems, the conduct of RES tenders and the authorisation of RES. It is something the previous government has done too - it is true - and the earlier administration. We allow, by way of derogation from the existing provisions of Law 4412, the RAE to delegate the work to a technical consultant so that the subsequent tenders of renewable energy sources can be made, because time is limited. Article 7 adds the definition of a small connected system within the meaning of Directive 219/944. All of what I will say mention Crete and the new operation of the small interconnection. Article 8 regulates the application of RAE Decision 14/2014 for the calculation of the consideration relating to the provision of public utility services. Article 9 introduces transitional provisions for the operation of phase one of phase Peloponnese - Crete from 3/7 to 30/9/2021, and then Crete will function as a small connected system, so we have the definition of what it means to Article 7. Article 10 regulates the operation between the first interconnection phase and the second interconnection phase of Crete with Attica, so we have two phases of operation. We have the function between now and 30/9 that the small interface operates in the intervening period. We have the next period after 30 September and until the large interconnection is built, which is another time, which defines how this interface will operate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u255	How many articles does he have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u256	Twelve and it's over. Article 11 provides for the transfer by the Public Power Corporation to the independent electricity transmission manager of the fixed high voltage fixed assets in Crete. It is what you were expecting, ladies and gentlemen, and we had said as an amendment. The proposed Article 12 regulates urgent environmental licensing issues for large industrial plants and concerns PPC’s lignite production units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u258	The debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u259	You knew, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u260	It's your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u261	Please. Wait a minute. Like Mrs Gara, she has a committee, so the Minister told me she has obligations. What can I do under the Rules of Procedure, which is given the floor? Please. Don't put everything in the Bureau. Here you go, Mr. Famele. Do as soon as you can to serve Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u262	No, no. That is not my point, Mr President. It's your issue and the government. The Government has chosen to bring nine ministerial, nine additional bills into the bill on the Land register.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u263	Good. Since it has the floor under the Rules of Procedure, what can I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u264	It must at least have the ethics to come and speak to three Members and not to what the ministers do to this day. It's embarrassing what you're doing, Mr. Screka. I'm not talking about you personally. I'm talking about all the ministers. Question about what you brought us: Why didn't you put these amendments to the bill, which you had, when we asked you in the debate of the bill last week and made a commitment that the energy amendments would come to that bill? What for? Are you so great? Aren't you enough? Second question: Tell us, by the way, if you agree that the register has gone to the Ministry of Digital Governance and closes with loose ends, so that you have nothing clear in the design. We are interested in your opinion of the bill what cancels the Stock Exchange Third question: Article 1 excludes photovoltaic stations from competitive procedures, that is to say, you are amending your own law. Please tell Parliament that you voted out the law that you brought in six months ago to record, to see how excellent a government you are and answer us: Will you incorporate the rest of the small photovoltaics into competitive procedures? What's the limit? Where is this platform that Mr Hatzidakis announced to us and we wait, see how many years we will wait? When are you going to reform the framework for energy communities? Because you are once again making a small adjustment, but you are not bringing a new law, so Greece is not moving on to energy democracy. What about the roof photovoltaics that's been delaying over a year? That's all for the first article. Second article: Solve us a question. Is Crete and 10% of them on the non-interconnected islands - because there are technical questions on this - because it already works to control the connection with the Peloponnese? Third question: RES projects and exemption from connection. In other words, now, Mr Skreka, you come to tell us that the release of the RES made by the New Democracy in 2008-2009-2010 has completely failed, the licences requested by the companies in 2010 and were granted in 2011 with 2012 are not applicable, because the term of the production licence granted by the RAE to make the interconnection, is now not required by the contractors. You refer to 2,000 MW projects, which had an obligation to interconnect, which - if I am not mistaken - the work of IPTO costs one billion and are exempted - on the IPTO page we found with Mr Santorinios - the holders of the production permits from the interconnection project - tell me how much they would cost their own project - for 2,000 MW, but you let them keep the electrical space and the corresponding geographical space at the rate determined by changing the licence and the rules of the invitation at that time. This is called a healthy market, is it called free competition, that it is cancelled ten years after a licence, but they are keeping the electric and geographical space? And this is an invitation to the rest of the market to come to Greece, 'you know, after ten years the rules will be changed and some will be exempted from the interconnection, while some have not applied, why have they not been able to make an interconnection'? This is the market in the New Democracy. Worse than Far West, we're talking about. I keep going too fast. You say in Article 5 that he takes the platform of "Security" the Technical Chamber. Question: Are you having problems implementing the platform so far? Because the platform knows it was a donation, and now are you going to pay it already? Because I see that the percentage of the Chamber of Deputies is higher than the percentage of the EIFs. It took 1.5% of the EIF and now you give 2.5% of the Technical Chamber. Cost for the Greek State. Is the Technical Chamber going to build a new platform and why, since there was already a platform and it was working? You did two - three contests, you as government, beyond what was done with our own government. So you should make this clear to us and if you have a problem with project management so far, with the EIF. How far behind will the announcement of this cycle, now that you are also changing platform and contractor and manager, beyond the costs and problems you create? Last question, Mr President: I want you to tell us, Article 12, which gives us the possibility of environmental authorisation by way of derogation and amendment, who is concerned, because it is an amendment brought by Mr Antoniadis, you rejected it and it is now reintroduced, if I am not mistaken. I'm sorry about the MP's name. He has tabled an amendment to the Coupling Officer - I am not sure why I do not want to raise a colleague - and you rejected it and now you are putting it in the bill. At least we know, because it concerns a derogation, and we want to see how we will be placed, beyond the unacceptable procedure of the amendment. Inadmissible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u265	Thank you. Ms. Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u266	Minister, I do not bother to ask why you have brought the amendment. We're asking ourselves the question, we're taking the answers ourselves. Of course, it may be one of the amendments that are more appropriate to the register bill because they fall within the same logic. The log comes to settle the state of the earth to liberate for green investments and green development. Our questions, of course, will not be in SYRIZA's logic that is struggling for healthy market and free competition, because the European Union's own policy on green energy and green development follows the same challenges. I imagine that for technical reasons, it disagrees with the amendment. However, we will ask you: because there are various MPs and statemen and New Democracy and SYRIZA, who go back to the islands - and not only - and they say that there will not be wind turbines in villages and cities, in relation to the liberation you are making for the interconnection of the small islands and, indeed, by charging the cost of the underground pipelines to the public and not to the entrepreneurs, you have the purpose or connection of these facilities that you make with the decision to enter wind turbines in the historical places of testimonies of Gyros, Macrones, etc.Huh? If you have such a purpose, we warn you that we will not let you do that. You'll find us in front of you. We'd like to hear if you plan these historic places to turn them into wind turbulence parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u267	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u268	I'll start with the last one. As you are well aware, Mr Colleague, the new EIA spatial planning is being completed. When we took over after 2019, we quickly started drafting a new special spatial planning. Because the replacement of traditional electricity from lignite or fossil fuels with renewable energy, with means of producing renewables such as photovoltaics, wind turbines, of course, will bring great investment interest and a reality of great and many investments in the country. The previous government, after four and a half years, has done nothing to improve a regime which already exists with regard to the planning and separation of these means of production. So I repeat, we will be done by the end of the year. And there we really are very careful to protect the general environment of the country whether this is a natural environment or a cultural environment. In this way, on the one hand, we can achieve what we want, namely, the energy transition and the green transition and the replacement of polluting power plants from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources and, on the other, of course, maintain the huge, environmental or cultural wealth that the country has and protect societies. That is why we are telling all those investors who want to build, that they must now put the local community in a very high position so that they can achieve this consensus that they need. From there on, let me start with the last question. It is about the lignite plants of PPC. Article 12 is clear. I'll go backwards for Article 5. The TEI will not only take over the online platform - it may have been a misunderstanding - but it will assume the overall management of the program, meaning an electronic platform, creation, development, management, operation, maintenance. We pre-publish for the first time, the next few days and the driver. So the new "Security" driver before we end up...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u269	And what would you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u270	Don't be in a hurry. Don't be in a hurry. We're the Technical Chamber. We want it next door. You may not want to use a legal person under public law, such as the Technical Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u271	Please, he didn't interrupt anyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u272	We choose together with society, together with institutions, with scientists, when they can offer very important work and help public administration achieve a better result for the public interest. We have a different view of this. You don't have to shout. We want the Technical Chamber next to us, you might not want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u273	Please don't interrupt him. Please, Mr. Santorinier, Mr. Katsey! People will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u274	From there on, to be a little more meaningful. The Technical Chamber of Greece, which is essentially responsible for this sector of our economy, you know very well that it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u275	The Ministry is responsible, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u276	Please, he didn't interrupt anyone! What can we do now? People will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u277	You do not like the Greek Government's cooperation with the Technical Chamber of Greece. What can we do? As we work with the Development Bank and has undertaken a project, this time the Technical Chamber of Greece will take care of it. The electronic platform's changed because the way the program works. There is no longer the timeliness and timeliness that existed. In particular, objectively transparent criteria are introduced, which will assess the applicants in a rapid, digital manner. So the electronic platform is changing. From there on, applications will be assessed, objections will be monitored if they exist to correct any errors, if there are errors, checks will be carried out and promoted. Of course, there will also be participants, a very important program that we are changing and the Technical Chamber is now next to us. You like it, you don't like it. From there on with the proposed article 7.4 on extension to seven years, you said nothing. The proposed Article 3 has to do with the use of future underwater interconnection, which is planned by IPTO. Here's something very simple and it's not about an island. It is a matter of total concern to the island complex in the country, where production licences had finally been granted on special terms. So what happened then? There were no competitive procedures. There was a specific treasury compensation for wind projects much higher than the one that has emerged now after the competitive processes. In addition, this very high tarifa there was an additional increase of about 20% to 25%, so that it could cover the construction of the submarine cable with this special condition. The turf then was 100 and 120 euros, 130 euros with the surcharge per megawatt. The Tarifes now in the winds have fallen to 59 euros since the last competitions. We do not want the Greek people to pay EUR 100 and EUR 120 to build connections when we are already building links to these islands managed by IPTO and these are already, to a large extent, financed by the financial programmes. But the rest of the thing is that they're recovered from the end of network use. As we gave 100 MW power to small producers in Crete to use the small interconnection, we give them too, who for various reasons did not complete the licensing phase and construction, after all do not manufacture with expensive wind turfs, but are able to withstand the power of course by 50% of the use of the network to use the existing connections that will be built anyway. I don't think that's absurd. This is how we help to make rapid penetration of the RES. Addressing the representative of the Communist Party of Greece, we do not intend to destroy Greece's cultural heritage. We want to protect her. On the other hand, we want to achieve Greece's very ambitious goals in order to achieve the green transition and, of course, to protect the environment and tackle climate change. For the proposed Article 2, you rightly said that Crete was included in the non-interconnected islands. The application of this provision will be increased by 10% to compensate small investors in Crete, as will the other non-interconnected islands. I have nothing more to say. I think I've answered everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u278	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs Gara has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I have never met an arrogant behaviour like this before, incompetence of excellence, arrogant behaviour by a government. At the last moment, the ministers have been asking for two minutes in the Chamber to speak, without respecting any legislative procedure, no parliamentary procedure, bringing amendments which could be separate bills with twelve and fifteen articles, when, in the same week, they brought and discussed bills in Parliament from their own Ministries! If this matter is not arrogant to Parliament and disrespectfully to colleagues, and if that is not incompetent and a mess, I do not know what it is. We are aware of the reasons for this. Amendments are being tabled at the last minute without even being able to read them, without being able to have a broad debate in order to reach many hundreds of articles that are coming at the last moment in the middle of the summer and tight, dense parliamentary procedure hiding and passing on to muddy ruffles and many, millions of millions of service. This at some point must be stopped and followed and respected by parliamentary procedures. With fast track procedures and without broad consultation, today's bill related to the register came. The broad consultation, ladies and gentlemen, especially with experts, with scientists and technicians in the sector would be very useful in terms of optimal implementation, let alone when we discuss a critical, major, national one - we could say - issue for the Greek society such as the Register on the Management of Citizens' Property. The first part, therefore, of the bill under discussion, concerns the realisation and, in fact, the amendment of Law 4512/2018 by SYRIZA. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, with the opportunity to remind you that during his government term of office, with the country in economic suffocation, SYRIZA sought and managed to move on to the country with these important reforms, which turned Greece into a serious European state of law, especially necessary if we want to discuss development. Such reforms were the Land register, forest maps, the engraving of the cavalry, the uses of land, the special and regional spatial planning plans. I really insist that if we want to talk in this country about growth and new investment, foreign investment, domestic investment, we must finally create a rule of law and resolve key issues of service to citizens. This is necessary, not only for modernising the system, for modernising services, for attracting investment, but above all for struggling with the margins and practices that have been targeted for so many years, because a lot of them have been served. With Law 4512/2018, the SYRIZA government received the closure of the Stock Exchange at around 25%. However, the SYRIZA government completed in just two years' time 60% of the land register. He covered, in other words, the lost territory of decades by previous governments that closed the eye on the misatrical and complexion. Today the register would have been completed if the same rates and objectives were to continue, which the SYRIZA government had set for the services. However, today you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, reinstate the same inefficient model of governance in previous decades. You claim that real estate will be completed from now on before the publication of the Bureau Affairs Committees, as, as you say, for the first time, the rights uncertainties will be recorded in each property's stock sheet. Essentially, the loose ends remain. That's what you're doing. This arrangement actually overturns the whole block of operation of the register. After all, its purpose is not to know what rights each property has in the country and this is accurately captured on a map so that there are no disputes that block the development of real estate, investments, and also to put an end to the trespassers of public land. But you, while two years have not done anything to deal with the objections to the committees, are now deciding to develop the Land register with loose ends, which you will resolve at some point in the future, if, at any time, you may ever resolve them. So we don't have a real estate register. So what you are calling speeding up and modernising the register today - we have heard it from the relevant ministers - is nothing but a reference to the completion of the ceremonies for some time in the future through an early and supposed closure of the cases. In fact, not only is there no time commitment provided for when the realisations will have been completed, but you are closing this program before its successful completion, stirring up contracts with more than fifty companies and five thousand experienced experts - engineers, lawyers, computer executives - and that is what you call communication 'completion'. Another issue arising from this draft law concerns the introduction of the institution of ombudsmen and accredited engineers to correct inaccuracies. Here, instead of serving the empty organic positions of the land register operator, you choose, just as you did to EKA and other ministries and agencies, to finally set up a parallel mechanism outside the Land register. Instead of increasing the authority of the institution, you choose to make it perforated, because in other countries there is a tight and strict framework, here the framework you are proposing is so relaxed that we can easily conclude that you have found another way to help 'blue' children. Finally, I could not comment on the provisions relating to the EBRD, which, as we have said many times, has been established and worked successfully by the SYRIZA Government, which has attracted many domestic and international productions, contributing substantially to the emergence of a new industry and attracting investment in our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm going to need a minute. With Article 38, therefore, you are weakening the public character of the EMCDDA, taking the individual auditors into account and allowing the management to cut off and sewage, as he wishes, by modifying the authority and the validity of the body. Minister, on the occasion of your presence today, I would like to raise a quite serious matter with you. As you know, today there is a totalitarian strike by the workers in the JEPs, who are essentially calling for the immediate staffing of the services, as well as safety conditions at work. As they say, in recent years, several responsibilities have been transferred to the JEPs because of COVID, but without the services having been sufficiently staffed or their work being strengthened and supported. Especially during the pandemic period, the JEPs serve a large number of citizens, lifting heavy burdens on services, taking responsibility for other bodies as well. I will give you the request and the memorandum from the Workers' Federation in the JEPs, and we expect you to do both the actions and the immediate responses to the demands of the workers. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anastasia Gara, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by closing services such as the register, forest maps, spatial planning, it is necessary for development, as is obviously the digitisation of services. However, the transfer of services to a digital environment does not mean that we are not solving the basic problems or that we are doing state reform. Digital services must serve citizens and sustainable development objectives, domestic production reconstruction, but above all they must serve citizens and cannot be used as a cover for the government's inertia and interests. Thank you. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, too. You deserved it. We were very worried about you, but to be fair with Mr. Skreka at first he agreed to give the floor to Mrs. Gara, but after the date she had, she couldn't wait and changed it again. The truth is, he negotiated man. Okay, to be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, could I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u282	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u283	I want to put forward legislative improvements. To share in the House, to see them. They are concerned with the'my photo'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u284	Is that essential?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u285	Legislative improvements. No, it's not essential. But you will see it, and then, if necessary, the minister will also be placed, who will return shortly later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u286	Now Mr Michalis Katrinis, a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, has the floor, and then Mr Spanakis has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill today, which, unfortunately, has nothing to do with the body and content of the bill, because the government, as has been usual in recent years, has tabled a rain - I would say that we have a pandemic of amendments - that we remain in the closure of this year's parliamentary term, but that is also indicative of the way in which it understands the legislative process and also the functioning of the parliamentary procedure. He came before the Ministry of Education's political leadership. We talked three days about the Ministry of Education bill. It was tabled yesterday and, indeed, Mrs Kerameou was justified that she submitted it to the Ministry of Digital Governance bill because she would - she said - be late if she did not, say, say, and it is the first time that the government in this Chamber is tabling for up to half an hour - twenty minutes before the process, amendment and vote. However, that is not why, in a draft law, which has been characterised as reformist and emblematic, no amendments that are part of a normal provision have been added. In fact, one of these concerns the debts of university professors who give tens of billions of euros and not, of course, what Mr Syrians said about 50 and 60 euros. That is why there is no appreciation for the government today to tell the Greek citizens that I take the responsibility, at the time I ask all professionals, debtors, households to pay their debts, otherwise there is the Banking Code, which provides for confiscation, eviction, auctioning and other enforcement measures. At the same time, the same government comes and gives in to a long-term pressure, giving it back - tens of millions of euros and depriving the essentials of the resources of the Greek universities, which are trying to compete with foreign institutions and provide quality education with reduced resources, with reduced funding - so another wound to the financing of universities. So that has the seal of the Government of New Democracy. It comes with an amendment in secret, a stay of closure, and of course it characterizes this government. Also - Mr Skrekas left - we never understood why, while last week we had a bill with hundreds of articles, he comes today with similar provisions of twelve articles to bring into the form of amendments, which could very easily and very self-evidently have been incorporated into the bill last week. Is that all? We also have provisions on the bankruptcy code that is clear - I say this, because at the same time that the government gives tens of millions of euros, at the same time brings a provision that says today - that anyone who goes into the extrajudicial system and proposes a regulation by the banks and the funds and makes a counter-proposal, creditors have the right not to accept it and not to answer and lead it to bankruptcy. These are the two measures and two weights of this government, which otherwise says to be reformist and modernistic, otherwise it claims to be the government that will change the form of the country. It is the same government that is trying to convince us and the Greek society that the 30.5 billion of the Recovery Fund will suddenly fill the whole society, the whole of the entrepreneurship, the whole trading world in liquidity and only change the image and nature of the country. Yes, we agree that this money is a unique one perhaps the last opportunity for the productive reconstruction and the economic transformation of the country, as long as this money is used and not spent, as Mr Skeylakakis said twice in committee yesterday, showing a stress of absorption and money-saving, and not using where it really needs to be used to stimulate the Greek economy. It is money, which comes into a project for which no effective consultation has ever been held. We are not talking here about both the social partners and the professional and economic actors. We are talking about a project where over 12.5 billion of the loans will go as a banking system, but the government at the same time, which agrees that the money will go through there, does not push the banking system to relax the criteria with which it provides loans, with the result that these 12.5 billion finally involve thirty thousand of the four hundred thousands of companies and the eight hundred thousand active VAT. Tell me, Mr. Snowides, Mr. Spanakis, Mr. Loading, Mr. Maraveya, you will go to your districts and will tell you professionals "I also want to get money from the Recovery Fund. Can you tell them that this money is about small businessmen, people who have been struggling to stand up and who have waited for this money to invest, to modernise their business, to stand up? Of course it is also the costing and distribution of projects, which has many problems. Health, education, infrastructure - we all have enjoyed their contribution to pandemic - less than 1.5 billion. Primary sector, island policy, not a poor relative, almost non-existent within the direction of the Recovery Fund. Even on the labour support side, there is no provision for people who will be forced, because of the bankruptcy code, which the government has voted to put a lock on the company a few years before they are retired. There is no 'Bridge' programme, even through public works, for these people to be able to retire a few years before they are able to guarantee the right and with dignity after twenty-five, thirty-five years of professional life in the retail trade, in entrepreneurship as self-employed, to be able to secure this pension right. He doesn't even give them that possibility. I say this because within the projects, which have first been announced and have been costed to the Recovery Fund, it is also the 242 million for the real estate register. And here I am linking it to today's bill, since, of course, speeding up the process of realisation is imperative. Unfortunately, our country is one of the few countries that have no real estate registers. However, if we are to be honest in this Chamber, we are not talking about upgrading, speeding up or modernising the register, but about closing the areas under landfilling, without having completed the proceedings of objections and without having declared too much of the rights. It is therefore the impression that the government is giving up in the face of difficulties. It burdens the burden of proving property to the citizens who should pay private engineers and lawyers. How else can one explain in the order for early completion of the ownership process, when the bill itself, the government itself admits that we are almost one third of all the rights of the country that have been examined so far? Does the government consider that this is about the completion of the project? As far as the Minister's forecasts are concerned, we will be at 55% and in two months' time at 90%, I think these are very good estimates, but they must also be proved at the same time, and the services must also be managed and procedures made more flexible, which is not achieved by this bill. The truth is that the government is rushing to present an accelerating picture of the realisation and transition of an operating register and why it must convince the European partners that the project has been completed - so that they must not return the money back - and, on the other hand, to integrate it into the Recovery Fund with a sum of EUR 242 million, which is really inexplicablely high, and I do not think that sufficient documentation has been given on the amount of money, which will be wasted and given in this direction. I think that's unthinkable. The government must also answer us: an amendment, Minister, from the Change Movement - Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Ilhan - has been tabled to facilitate the declaration of the legacy in the Land register. Will you answer us whether you will accept it or not? Also, in Article 24 - I would like to say this - the Government remains consistent in its efforts to exclude diplomats from any activity in which they have so far been involved with experience, know-how and competence. You're doing this in too many bills. It is incomprehensible why you are currently pulling out all the topographers, IT engineers, who have proven experience from a project, which they know, can contribute and contribute. We invite you, even now, to see it again. We understand that you want to serve the President of the TEI, Mr. Stasinio, who, in all the bills, is close to you, supports you, favours you, often is for the proper vigour in matters relating to the government's legislature, but no longer! Keep a balance to people who have provenly contributed to this work, have knowledge, and after all - what do they request? They're also asking to get into the evaluation process to make them accredited. I don't understand why you're blocking them in the first place. You should see this again and review it. Mr President, to conclude, I would like to make a special reference to digitisation, which the government has produced in magic, because the Minister in the debate in the committee has said above - below - that we are the country of information and that the relevant changes are made with an exponential curve and that this will continue. I wish that was the case. I'd be the first to go out and say goodbye. However, I am reading the report of the Greek Industrial Association - which is not a friend to the Change Movement - and indeed the Minister knows that it has a good relationship - which says that in digital maturity Greece is twenty-seventh among the twenty-eight countries of the European Union. I am tabling this report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The reality is that the digital upgrade for the ordinary citizen, but also for businesses, is taking very slow steps and at very high costs. For example, more than six months have been tested in tele-education, hundreds of thousands of students and teachers, we can only find few ones to testify to being excited by the process. High data charges: we have raised it as a Change Movement, we know very well that it will not be hosted in any column or site or newspaper that we have been denounced for a year. We have also called for the committee to be convened, for the Committee on Telecommunications and Postal, and for the Committee on Competition, which has presented the Rewheel report, which I will also present in the Minutes, which is what it says. That Greece has the worst performance and that Greeks are paying the internet very expensively to buy projects with little data, while in Europe and in the OECD countries the exact opposite happens. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, a serious problem is identified with low internet speeds, as there are very wide variations between nominal values and actual download of connections. I now submit a survey of Europe's Data Journalism Network. Greece is in the last place, with an average speed of just 29 Mbps, last in all European Union countries, while comparison with Denmark which is first country, disappointing, since that is where the speed is 140 Mbps. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Speedest Global Index: Our country is in the hundredth place worldwide at the speed of fixed telephony downloading - I also submit this - under countries such as Bangladesh and Mongolia. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The programme is not only concerned with simple DSL lines, but also with fast connections which should in theory have fewer losses due to the use of fibre optics. In addition, as reported in the Report "New Fibre Market Panorama 2021", Greece is in the top -10 of the countries that have the greatest distance to travel to have a complete network of fibre optics, with almost four million households remaining to gain connection. With regard to artificial intelligence solutions - it is in the BSE report - only 3% of companies in the country use artificial intelligence solutions. So, in this fourth generation technology, Greece ranks very low, just twenty-thirds among the countries of the European Union, with 3% of companies using artificial intelligence solutions. The average European term is 45%. Only three out of ten companies declare that they are aware of these possibilities. I don't know if that's evidence that allows celebrations from the Department of Digital Governance. I close with the 5G technology that this technology could, according to estimates, mobilise up to EUR 6.5 billion by 2030. The government, however, is more concerned with the presentation, advertising, than with the substance of the future digital transformation of the Greek economy and society, because it does not ensure inclusive participation without high costs. Because you understand that 5G will be of value when it is accessible to the average enterprise and the average household. Of course, as regards the amendment you are bringing about for the PHASE fund, we have again asked a question, which has not been answered in time and which has been answered incompletely. In fact, there is also one question when the former Ministry of Telecommunications Secretary of the Ministry, who designed the "FASSITOS" Fund, who passed by law in the House, then resigned and accidentally took over the head of the "FASSITOS" Fund, which will manage the money from the 5G auction range. Here, then, there are no guarantees of public interest. The government should tell us what the strategies and priorities are at the moment for managing this money and should at some point in this Chamber or in the committee at last the government, the Ministry of Digital Governance to come and give us convincing answers, because Greece today is paying the most expensive internet in the European Union and in the OECD at the lowest speed of connection, which is at the expense of equal access to businesses and households of our fellow citizens and, obviously, of the digital revolution that we would all want to see happening in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr Katrin. As you can see, the government benches are full and I want you to respect the tiredness of the children here on the left, the partners, but also the efforts of the master expert, Mr Bagioku. A government officer, a Member of Parliament, was decided so that we could make it. It can't be. It doesn't come out, Mr. Famele, so there won't be any whims. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kontozamanis, the Minister for Health - I imagine - for Amendment No 1036/22. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to support the amendment by the Ministry of Health that its provisions concern the regulation of urgent matters. In particular, Articles 1 and 2 of the amendment allow health regions to carry out all the necessary procedures to facilitate home-to-house vaccination of our fellow citizens and Article 2 provides for the possibility of carrying out home-to-house vaccination of all public primary health care structures and local health groups, as well as medical staff from local authorities. Articles 3 and 4 provide for private doctors and pharmacists to be compensated for the closure of an appointment for vaccination and vaccination, both in private doctors and in the home vaccination procedure. Article 5 essentially clarifies the process of defining the beneficiaries of self-diagnostic tests for the control of coronary disease, a programme which concerns our fellow citizens and which we have extended until the end of September in order to strengthen our arsenal in the early diagnosis of the coronary and, of course, in the best epidemiological picture, which we want to have as a country. Article 6 lays down, essentially, the institutions and procedures for attesting infringements and for enforcing penalties against natural persons and undertakings, infringements of measures to deal with the pandemic. Article 7 sets out the procedure for compensation for the staff of the Equity Fund and the 251 General Hospital of Aviation, units, which supported the National Health System in the previous months, in order to deal with and manage the pandemic better. With Article 9, we effectively regulate an issue which concerns officials from the Ministry of Health's Central Service who were serving in the Department of Health Inspectors' Body in Thessaloniki and due to the abolition of the House that was effectively absorbed by the National Transparency Authority to these colleagues from the Ministry of Health who served in Thessaloniki, the possibility of switching to healthcare structures in Thessaloniki so that their family and service situation are not disturbed. With Article 10 we effectively regulate issues relating to the new system of specialisation examinations, as foreseen by Law 4600/2019, and provide for examinations to be carried out at examination centres in Athens and Thessaloniki. Here I must stress that doctors from all over the country will be involved in these committees, not only from Athens and Thessaloniki, through a process in which there will be a record of doctors, both from universities and from the National Health System, who can be examiners during the process of pan-Hellenic examinations. There are issues relating to the easier conduct of the specialisation examinations and legal improvement, which has been submitted, we are effectively abolishing the text providing for the indication of the degree of success of the doctor in the oral procedure. With Article 11, essentially because of the relevance of a subject, we prioritise the filling of positions of directors in intensive care units for doctors who specialize in the intensive care unit. That is all, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, too. I should also like to thank Mr Besiropoulos for agreeing to speak at 18: 30.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I would like the floor. I have some questions to ask the State Secretary, Mr. Kontozamani. Can I do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u292	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u293	Thank you. Mr Contozamanis, on the amendment which you brought to us the first question, of course, we have addressed it to all the ministers who have come today and are: Why is the Ministry of Health for such critical and serious issues? Why did you choose to come with an amendment to another ministry bill, without having any discussions in the committees, without any consultation on matters that are very important? Let me tell you that from what I have understood and from your position, they are not issues of the last week. This is the second question, Mr Kontozamanis: did the issue of cooperation with the municipalities, the issue of the planning of the vaccination programme for people with disabilities, for people in remote areas - have you mentioned some categories, which are provided for in the regulations - have it been for seven months to be planned by the government of the 'excellent' and to come with an amendment to discuss them? Because two - three weeks ago, it was revealed in our region, Thessaloniki, that the evidence given for the vaccination rate in the Municipality of Thermi, Delta and Volbis was wrong and you were exposed by the municipalities. Are you coming now, with a last-minute amendment, without having discussed it, to discuss the vaccination programme in target groups, which should already have developed and you want to create a sense of security in society? We have said so, Mr Kontozamanis: because our aim is universal vaccination, citizens must not be taken away from the unreliability and inadequacy of the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and the Mitsotakis Government as a whole. The first question I would like to ask you is why you have delayed bringing these verses up to now to a debate. Secondly, Mr President. The Prime Minister was committed in January for 2 million fully vaccinated people in our country until the end of March. We want you to tell us, because we are interested in the vaccination going ahead, why you failed to do so. It was also committed that at the end of June we would have 70% of the immunity wall, with priorities, and we were talking about teachers, about tourism, which was important to have achieved it, because we would be in a much better position, and we want to achieve it. Can you tell us what the health ministry's assessment of why these objectives were not achieved so that we would not make such mistakes again? Because we want - I repeat - to achieve universal vaccination. Third question. As far as we are concerned, it can be seen from the amendments you have put forward, and you have signed it, that the cost of traceability and diagnostic tests is borne by the workers, and that is also included in the amendment by the Ministry of Education, which concerns you, because it concerns the diagnosis and traceability of the coronary, COVID. So one issue arises: would it not be an element of the campaign to combat this tragic pandemic, the tragic features of the virus, to have a public system of traceability with prescribed tests? Because as long as it costs and is deducted from wages and costs and households' adequacy to get through, you understand that it prevents these categories of workers from moving into analyses. I say this - let the honourable Members and the Members hear it, and I say it to the Members of the House - because in this amendment on the issues of teachers, which you have brought if it is not predicted how the tests will be covered, you can understand that there is a great security issue in schools. We tell you in advance, because we want an absolute protection net to be available to both children and older people in vulnerable groups. We have been telling you from now, before we go to the vote, because there is no possibility of amending the amendment, that the costs of rapids or molecular tests by the state should be covered. We want a safety net. If you don't enter it, you'll create a problem in the safety net. The question therefore is why, so far, the workers are being charged with it and why you are not putting it in the priority groups at least, since you are choosing to do this, if you wish, procedure of prior legislating, even with the amendment. Also, if I am not mistaken - you have said so too, please forgive us because we have not read everything so thoroughly - it is more than seventy articles that came in an amendment. Some are three or four pages. It is not possible within one night to read them when we have a bill in front of a very important one. Is there also a process of financial compensation for the acceleration of vaccination? I would remind you that the financial consideration in the case of young people has not worked very well. I don't think it's a matter of financial consideration for vaccination. Another message we have to give. Is the message wrong? I want your opinion, and I ask you quite frankly. However, we will overcome the sluggishness, Mr President, of the legislature and the insult of Parliament's process if you resolve this issue of covering the state of diagnostic tests. It's very important. I say this in substance, overcoming all the issues, the difficulties you are creating in the legalisation of the Ministry of Digital Governance today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u294	Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Minister, you will answer all together. Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, overall the logic behind the amendment as a whole does not escape the government's policy on the logic of individual responsibility with a strong contradiction, resulting from your policy and reflecting the reduction of public health spending on a number of issues and articles. I will not go into everything about the time economy, but I have some questions about, for example, the assignment to primary care for home vaccinations. At the same time, adequate staffing of primary care units, TOMY etc. is ensured.Huh? Because the wording of the arrangement that it says is done in such a way that it ensures the proper functioning of the units only as irony and smuggling can be understood with the given sub-selling that exists in some plants. Already in the case of vaccination in health centres there are very serious problems as a result of this hypotension. Similarly, it is indicative in Article 1 that the total lack of means of transport in public health units, not only for vaccination, but also for other domestic hospital needs. Secondly, in relation to Articles 3 and 4, the problem of home-to-house vaccinations is obviously not, above all, the compensation of private doctors, but can this be effectively entrusted on a voluntary basis, that is, if private doctors want to take part in it? What if he doesn't? How will the population be vaccinated, which has already been too late to be vaccinated by those groups that have difficulty moving, etc.Huh? Of course, especially for pharmacists, we are concerned. Is the pharmacists, those responsible for their specificity objectively to answer essentially people's health-related questions, to assess the possibility of vaccination, then monitor any side effects? Is the pharmacists' specialty appropriate? Of course, this invention, in order to pay their compensation on condition that the first dose is realised, does it have any evidence, if you wish, that the responsibility for the advancement of vaccinations to pharmacists and doctors will fall rather than fall on the government which, due to its old ages, raises doubts that doctors are really struggling to deal with? I would like to point out - and this is not a question - that it is a problem for us that, as the amendment comes back in the form that we can vote on - a whole and not an article - articles which we would like to vote on, such as Article 7, on the payment of the newspapers which we consider to be an unequivocal obligation on the Government and Article 9 on the possibility of transferring these workers, we cannot vote on them. In any case, this is also to the Bureau for the procedure, that it cannot continue to do so, forcing us to vote for all the articles in the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Famele, you know very well - at least, I hope you will be aware - that the 'Freedom' programme is a dynamic one. We've exceeded ten million vaccinations. Five million people have already completed vaccination. It makes sense in a business like this to need adjustments to be made and that's why nothing changes in our planning or planning, and that's why we're bringing this arrangement. With regard to home vaccinations, we have said so, it is not an easy project, because we need to see how the vaccines will be handled and how they will be carried out in the homes of our fellow citizens who are unable to come to the vaccination centres. Of course, in order to be able to cover the population, we are bringing this regulation in so that health centres can also go home to carry out vaccinations. She said Mrs. Konnakas if there are any resources. We all know very well, especially in the province, in health centres, that doctors there and in small areas which our fellow citizens are docked and unable to go for vaccination and it is even easier to locate and embolize these fellow citizens. So we make adjustments to the programme, which is under way. We never said that in March we would have two million vaccinated fellow citizens, because we did not have that much vaccine until March.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u298	The Prime Minister's statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u299	Two million we have the possibility of vaccination this month, our production capacity. At the end of March we had about two and a half million doses available. In January we started, until the end of February, until March, you'll see the dates, how many vaccines we received by the end of February. Because you have also referred to the tests, let me say first of all that the self-tests are actually available from the state, from the state free of charge to our fellow citizens. And when we say that a worker, on his own responsibility, must do the test, if he comes to a public structure, will not pay the test, as they did not pay a test, no medicine, no hospitalization throughout the pandemic, any citizen who came to the public health services structures. So don't try to create impressions. Because Mrs. Konnaka said we should look at the time period...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u300	"Two million Greeks will be vaccinated by the end of March," you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u301	We had two and a half, if I remember well, millions of vaccines at our disposal by the end of March, had moved on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u302	"Two million to four million doses," he writes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u303	Let me remind you that we started with a thousand eighteen vaccination centres throughout the country, and we've exceeded a thousand five hundred. Therefore, we have also increased our production capacity with regard to the possibilities for vaccination centres to carry out vaccinations of populations. As Mrs Konnaka referred to the pharmacists, I would like to say that the pharmacist is a health professional. Are our fellow citizens not at liberty for advice and to see when they receive a medication how to take this medication? In the pharmacists all the years the world hasn't done the anti-corruption vaccine? So, isn't the pharmacist one of the first contact points in our fellow citizen's health system to consult with his trusted pharmacist about the necessity of the vaccine? So that's what we're doing. All the years, I told you, like the flu vaccine. Let's go to the pharmacists. We're all going to the pharmacy, and we're consulting the pharmacist, and we're doing the vaccine. We're just giving them that reward. They're health professionals and they're one of the most suitable people to do this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, too. Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis from New Democracy
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity and we must address many issues. But let me say that I am very happy, because the Mitsotakis Government, the New Democracy Government, is struggling to deal with the problems of everyday life successfully. Because the Greek people are listening to us, make sure that as many dangers as SYRIZA could fire, no matter how black and SYRIZA would fire the decisions of this government, nothing would happen at all. Because today we have a lot to talk about, a very important bill on the register - not to forget, today the bill relates to the register and other provisions - to say that the New Democracy Government and the Ministry of Finance accepted the extension of the declarations until the end of August. Excuse me, it was a given statement that the statements would be at the end of August, but it accepted the extension of the 3% option to the one-off payment of income tax until the end of August, which means what? That it disguises the everyday life of taxpayers, accountants, society. Before I place myself on a very important tax site at the TAXHEAVEN, the scientific group has also raised a problem with regard to the amounts of tax withheld, which pose problems in clearing. I propose from the Stepma that the statements should finally go by the end of September - it is a one-way to go by the end of September - because at the moment all those who have gone to cleansing and have seen different amounts of tax being retained are now required. So you see that here we are to solve problems simply, but importantly. Now we're going to today's bill. This is today's bill we have to vote on and this is the amendments. A great deal has been said by colleagues in the Confederal Group of the European United Left -Nordic Green Left. I ask: in all these articles you have read, you have seen something negative? Seventy-two instalments, favourable arrangements for insurance contributions, important arrangements concerning the register and the actions of the State Secretary responsible, George Stylion, who had coordination on property, which are currently going to the OTAs and in collaboration with the relevant ministries, so all of this tell you nothing? Or will you vote against that right now we come and tell NIMITS medical staff or other hospitals that we are giving overtime because people worked for them and because of this health crisis that exists? So we're talking about just issues, that you want to make issues and alter the real picture that exists. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years it has been employing property owners for a number of professions relating to property ownership, such as notaries, accountants, lawyers and many others. First of all, however, I would say that the issue of real estate ownership is national, is economic and an issue that concerns the everyday lives of all of us. The Greek people for the full implementation of the register has spent enough money and the effort made over time, by all governments, is important and this cannot be called into question. Today, however, our Parliament is called upon to vote on the law that will speed up the completion of the process of realisation of real estate and the transition to an operating register. This draft law brings rationalisation of the process of correcting the first inaccurate property records, and a real upgrade of the Greek Stock Exchange also occurs. The possibility of an extension of up to 31-12-2022 to correct inaccuracies is very important and concerns property either known or unknown owner. It is known that on 31-12-2021 all the properties recorded as an unknown owner would go to the Greek State. This one-year extension is necessary in order for citizens to check the registration of their property. So they can make corrections and thus protect their property. Of course, this whole project requires the necessary and detailed information, in various ways, either through sms or via email, even with the help of TAXIS. Finally, the property owners must be informed in their entirety and properly. Yes, this bill in any case brings facilities. Considering that to make a correction there had to be an irrevocable judicial decision, then the Areo Ice, now the owners have another path to resolve their issues. Importantly, the establishment of the real estate year, which will be judged to a second degree in relevant cases, and to remain in something very important: at last, the error correction procedure is reformed with the indication of an unknown owner, since, in this bill, the consent of the Greek State to correct the error will be presumed by non-proliferation of objections within sixty days of the performance of the application, and then the head of the real estate office will have to correct the relevant record. In short, so that we do not get tired of those watching us, this draft law makes sense. It closes serious holes of the past and mainly gives potential to everyone. You will, however, allow me to refer to something else, which is referred to in Article 29 of the draft legislation. I am talking about the electronic property transfer file to make it considerably easier at all stages to transfer a property. So in a marketplace we bring two things, and simplification and digitisation. I say this because there is some data and this data, ladies and gentlemen, we are being made clear to the Greek people - I say this personally, not only as a Member of the South Athens Section - that we need to help the livestock offices directly. Subsistence of property offices poses serious risks to the evolution of transfers. But let me also refer to the figures of my constituency. More than three thousand unregistered acts at the Glyfada Land Office, more than six thousand unregistered acts at the Painting Office, more than two thousand unregistered acts at the Athens Treasury and at the Athens Land Office for the areas of Moschat and Galactici, serious problems at the Kallithea Land Hall, which we have more than two thousand unregulated acts. All this is a situation that we have received, which we are trying to resolve with this bill. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Of course, my reference is not, under any circumstances, a reproach on the staff who is making superhuman efforts at these offices. I am simply tabling in this Chamber that we should go to direct support for staff of the real estate offices throughout the country. This draft law, however, supports staff, while there are provisions for the conclusion of programming contracts, as provided for in Article 14 for the conclusion of a contract between the Greek Registry and the Technical Chamber of Greece. Let me also refer to other problems that it solves, such as the regulations of Article 18, concerning the staff of the legal person governed by public law 'Greek register', while progressing rapidly and extending the programmatic contracts with the lawyers for the administration of the real estate offices. That's the reality. In short, this bill can be captured by three simple words: Acceleration, rationalisation and modernisation. Of course, all this is the first base. It is the beginning and we must vote in favour of this bill, which will create the conditions for strengthening the Greek economy. Because, in practice, the register only creates significant benefits in all directions and, above all, the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Doctor, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would now like to place myself on the amendment - adding the Ministry of Culture and Sport to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance. It is essentially four urgent provisions in two articles in which there are two amendments to read: firstly, to correct legal references to Law 736/1977, the law of the old SGP, which has been replaced by Law 4761/2020, the Law of the SGP and, secondly, to prolong the liquidation of the Solidarity Fund in order to complete its work and, at the same time, to continue the uninterrupted operation of the child service which operates in the structures of the Fund and under the responsibility of the liquidator. The need for this amendment, firstly, the references to Article 19 of Part I of the Sixth Council Directive 73/207/EEC of 17 June 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of power generators, and secondly the references to Article 19 of the Sixth Council Directive 77/388/EEC of 17 May 1977 on the harmonization of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes — Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment. Article 4(3) of Law 4598/2019 and replaced by paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 1 are a problem, because they refer to a provision already repealed by law. Article 1(3) provides for the continuation of the liquidation of the mutual fund of officials of the Ministry of Culture, which has not yet been completed because of the conditions imposed by the koruna pandemic. The single duration is proposed in order to provide sufficient time to complete the work and is combined with the fact and the need to open up the childcare station for the children of the Ministry of Culture, which operates under the structures of the fund, and it will be important to avoid any overturning of the family planning of the parents - employees for the next school year. The purpose of Article 1(1) and (2) is therefore to correct Laws 4639/2019 and 4598. Paragraph 3 of Article 1 aims to complete the work of liquidating the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture until 31 July 2022 in order to ensure that the work is completed and, at the same time, to continue the operation of the childcare facility for another year. This current legislative initiative by the Ministry of Culture essentially, beyond the part of the legal correction, ensures what I have said earlier. Do not disturb the parental planning of the ministry. This is also a request from both the associations of parents and guardians of the Ministry of Culture and the teachers of the station, who have submitted relevant documents and letters to both the Minister's office and the Ministry's departments and even the Prime Minister's office. That is why we call on you to vote in favour of this amendment. Let me also make a very brief comment on Article 1 of Amendment 1029/15 by the Ministry of Digital Governance, which concerns online piracy. It is a very important issue on which we work very closely with the Ministry of Digital Governance. Let us say how important this amendment is and how with the improvements to the existing framework under Article 66 of Law 2121/1993, we will effectively ensure that copyright is protected more effectively and, therefore, we will ensure the rights of authors in general, something that the Ministry of Culture has been defending since the first day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u308	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Your Honor. Undersecretary, normally in such an amendment, which comes at the last moment, just before the House closed, the Minister herself should come to us to respond to a few things concerning her work and days in connection with the mutual fund and especially the child service. On June 15, the Minister of State, and for reasons of communication, apparently because the funds made redundant, for the first time in the public sector, had seen the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, had made a statement that the fund was being liquidated until August 31, 2021 because of COVID. Obviously, it was to blur the waters that all the other workers would be fired and become the right ones. Now, because, of course, others are the intentions, there is a new amendment to extend the liquidation for a year. Question one. So since the kindergarten and the fund will continue to work, what will be the redundant workers and suspended workers? I say and insist - the New Democracy Members must hear it - for the first time we have sacked workers. Secondly, we are tabling an amendment to supplement Article 7 of Law 4598/2019 which the Members of the New Democracy have also voted on. In fact, the then head of department, Mr. Olga Kefaliannis, had said "we will do anything to protect the workers". He had voted for both the Communist Party of Greece and SYRIZA. They had voted "residents" the Democratic Alliance, today's Change Movement. What did the law provide for, whoever has not been annulled? There's no Minister here to vote out the law. This article provided that the workers of the mutual fund and the nursery - the nursery is set up within the Ministry itself - and all employees are transferred as officials of the Ministry to personal posts, which was approved by the AACC. The Minister then never annulled the law, never applied it and made redundancies. We therefore ask for the amendment to be added to Article 7 of Law 4558 that, within a reasonable period of time and until 31 August, the necessary procedure should be provided for by the AACC, so that workers in the Ministry of Culture and, on the other hand, as long as this process lasts, workers can return to their positions and those made redundant as redundancies and suspensions. Mr. Doctor, in order not to put yourself in this position, the signature of redundancies really, you must now take a stand on your own now that you have been charged with this task to play one more game, which has led to the redundancies of workers, for the first time in the public sector. You accept the amendment. We have to vote on such an amendment, and not on such an amendment, which provides for nothing for redundant workers and for a suspension of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, too. Mrs Konnaka asked the Communist Party, Minister, to ask you a question and answer a few questions later. Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I will not repeat the history of the mutual fund. To a large extent, I'm covered by the previous placement. However, you have mentioned - we certainly understand that it is positive - that the function of the kindergarten should be maintained in order not to disturb the family planning of the officials of the Ministry. In the same way, however, family planning and the lives of workers from the Solidarity Fund, who, in fact, have put them in quarantine, should not be disturbed. Because, while there has been regulation and there have been decisions of the AACC which recognise the qualifications of these workers, you continue to be suspended and you have fired many of them and we suspect that they will also be the course of the rest if you do not allow them, in accordance with Article 7 of Law 4598/2019, to be transferred to personal positions, which the Ministry must create for these cases. We have tabled an amendment for the same reason, which coincides with the amendment tabled by SYRIZA. We believe that these issues should be provided for and covered in the amendment you are tabling. Of course, until the end of the procedure, the conventions of those who have been denounced - I mean, for the time being, what has been suspended in this informal and unorthodox way - must be regarded as such undoubted suspensions as unborn. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u312	Thank you too, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let me say something, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. As you know, State Secretarys are predicted to come here and defend provisions. From there on, the Minister has the right to sign and to legislate. That's well known. That is how Parliament works, so the process works. I think that's well known. There's a coma right now. It is provided for in the Rules of Procedure that there may be a coma, which is why I am present today. Just so there are no misunderstandings or that the Minister is trying to avoid anything. The Minister for Dismissals to which you have referred - which I am sure in passing are not public dismissals because they were not public recruitment in the sense that you mean that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u314	It was public recruitment, Mr. Doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u315	The Minister himself will answer questions under parliamentary control so that there is no question. In relation to the proposal of the amendment tabled by both SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece, which, as Mrs Konnaka said, are, in many respects: There are two points here. There is a little confusion and let me explain what I mean. First of all, I would like to tell you that the Legal Council of State has been asked whether the provisions of Article 7 of Law 4598/2019 are contrary to the Constitution and whether it is legal to approve the impending recruitment or transfer of officials from the Solidarity Fund to the Ministry of Culture. And he's given his opinion. It is the National Council of the State’s Legal Council No 262 opinion of 2019. That is where the Legal Council considers that it is not possible to transfer the staff of the Solidarity Fund to established personnel of the Ministry of Defence, pursuant to Article 7. Because the provisions of that Article are contrary to the prohibitions laid down in Articles 7 and 8 of Article 103 of the Constitution and to a number of judgments of the Supreme Court of the Ice Bay. This opinion was accepted by the Minister. In view of the fact that the Plenary Assembly of the State Council unanimously delivered an opinion on the non-legislative transfer of the staff of the Ministry's Fund. You mentioned in your recommendation the decisions of the AACC. But there is no contradiction here, because we are looking at different things. We said that the Legal Council of the State essentially examined and ruled negatively on the legality of the transfer of personnel, while the CSCE, within its competence, examined and ruled positively on the contribution of the conditions and qualifications to the person of the staff of the Fund. In other words, one part of it is that the AACC actually saw and checked that the conditions and qualifications are met, but this alone does not remove the unconstitutionality on which the AACC does not give its opinion and does not have the right to an opinion, but the Legal Council of the State is consulted. So these on the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u317	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u318	Just a moment, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, please. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u319	As it concerns workers who have been fired for the first time by the State, Mr Doctor, I would like to tell you that the Minister's advisers have not told you that well. The Legislative Council of the State shall deliver its opinion. It shall not take its decision. A law is passed by the Greek Parliament and in this Greek Parliament twice by the Parliamentary Groups and by the New Democracy, which the Minister does not count, decide and vote for a law based on the Constitution, Article 43(1), if I am not mistaken, only applies when it is voted on. Institutions exist. The Minister appealed and took the opinion he wanted. It's an opinion, it's not a decision. We are talking about workers here. You are bringing us an amendment, we are tabling another amendment. In your amendment what is envisaged for fired and suspended for the first time in the public domain. You come here, and of course, you have no say about legislation and you do not legislate yourself, but do not tell me to do parliamentary ‘Control’ when the fate of so many people who are fired from the public has been judged. It's a self-sacrificing agency, the day-to-day station, it's not a person's union. You haven't been well told.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u320	Thank you. Since the State Secretary does not want to speak, Mr Cappatos from New Democracy has the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Madam President. The acquisition, as a process, of necessity and innovation, has already become central to the Greek territory and its usefulness cannot be called into question. The company, both in the collection, processing and recording of matters and other written rights, which have the natural or legal persons and the association of such rights with specific property, has proved to be without any other opportunity. A first-class opportunity to highlight the new culture in the way the public and private coordinates are managed and, above all, safely. Having thus accumulated an important chapter of experience in managing this process, we can only move on to the next step. This is a step which will trigger the speed of handling the logistics and procedures, but also the transformation of the vehicle towards a more efficient, faster and more qualitative way of working. This is exactly what this is about with the draft law on the modernisation of the Greek Stock Exchange, the new digital services and the strengthening of digital governance. It is practically a matter of speeding up the realisation, simplifying and digitising the procedures offered by the Greek Stock Exchange to the citizens, as well as reorganising the organisation so that he can provide better quality services. Furthermore, both the introduction of new electronic services and the strengthening of the functioning of entities of the Ministry of Digital Governance are included as arrangements in this draft law. Given the speeding up of procedures as the main direction of this text, we are identifying as an important factor in delaying the process of ceremonisation, which precedes the start of the operation of the ceremonial office. This is a time-consuming and cost-effective process, which in many cases touches four years. This is, of course, the case because, following the submission of written rights by the citizens, it follows a series of new procedures. Their control of legality, the suspension of data, the submission of applications for correction or objections as well as the reform of real estate tables and charts compose an explosive bureaucratic mixture, a mixture that does not allow us to ignore the importance of the arrangements we are discussing today. After all, it is characteristic, I dare say, of the State Secretary, Mr Styly, that 98% of the properties could have been registered in the property register and registered in the property register, but the 2% loose ends keep it back. With this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, at least two years will be allowed to speed up the start of the stock register in areas where the ownership process is still pending. In particular, after the posting, citizens will submit applications for the correction of the veterinary data. The real estate office will correct any obvious or non-false errors it can and will reform the real estate tables and charts. Subsequently, in the case of cases where there is a dispute over the existence of rights of individuals, a report will be drawn up and they will be forwarded to the Certification Committees. The new framework fully ensures all the rights of those who consider themselves to be affected on the basis of the posting elements, without being translated into a significant delay for the rest of the owners. Finally, immediately after the correction of all those errors, the Land register starts operating in the area. It is then that, on the one hand, the authentication operation for the region will be issued and, on the other, the first entries will be made in the registers. If we want to codify the provisions of this draft law, we have nothing but to highlight the points that favour the organisation of a new film process: First of all, what we are doing is to extend the procedure until 31/12-2022, so that all citizens can check and correct the inaccurate first registrations of the property. The provision concerns immovable property of areas declared to be in real estate before the entry into force of Law 3489/2006, as well as areas in which the first entries were registered from 1-1-2013 until 31-12-2013. We then give a deadline for the correction of the initial land registers for the areas of the old land registers, where the accreditation term of census had not been issued, which means that there was no decision to enter into force the register in them. At the same time, further intervention by the bill, which we are voting on today, concerns the additional possibilities for citizens to settle their cases before they resort to justice. We are making use of the institution of mediation, following a proposal from the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations, so that citizens can handle their affairs more easily. At the same time, in specific cases, we adopt the mandatory initial mediation conferences before a real estate ombudsman, selected from a register to be created. In the same spirit, it is introduced as an institution of the accredited engineer, as well as of the real estate authority, in the logic of avoiding citizens from going to the courts for no serious reason. In addition, the Registry is allowed to conclude programming contracts with the TEI and with the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations. Finally, the Electronic Property Transfer File makes it possible to collect all necessary supporting documents in the office of the notary through the interoperability of the General Secretariat of Information Systems from different government registries. I close my thoughts with a reference, which goes horizontally, the draft law and relates to the right to property, a right guaranteed in the Greek and European legal order, as well as recorded in the spirit and construction of Western liberal democracy. Each person shall be entitled to be the owner of his or her legally acquired goods, to use them, to have them and to be inherited. At the same time, no one may be deprived of their property except for reasons of public interest. The case of ownership is directly related to the protection and enforcement of the right to property. However, it is also a matter of the State's obligation not to trouble its citizens who have the status of owner. This draft law does nothing more than respond to the above considerations. It gives solutions to a process which is unduly delayed and provides the prospect that the land register will proceed in its entirety for the benefit of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Bakadima has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with an amendment we tabled as a PART25 concerning the need to ban the supply, marketing and installation of computer spy software. Following the recent revelations on thousands of citizens' monitoring cases through the 'Pegasus' software of the Israeli NSO on behalf of governments, the extent of the phenomenon of espionage against activists, journalists, politicians and other citizens has been transparent, which is taking a direct lead in fundamental human rights. Given the lack of adequate regulatory framework for combating the phenomenon, it is necessary to directly legislate on the ban on the supply, installation in any digital computer system on the ground, which we are asking to implement with this amendment. By passing now on to the main part of my position, I have to indulge in the introductory terms that the mislegislation has become the government's modus operandi. There is no bill to discuss without being accompanied by unnecessary and frequent extensive amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the argument that they have done so and the previous ones are absolutely dead. Yeah, but you're the ones who did it, too. And, of course, you are at the same time making amendments to your legislation and amendments to the draft ministries, which have been discussed in the past few days. This is how we are today having a bill from the Ministry of Digital Governance, an extremely important bill. Unfortunately, however, its importance is covered by the nine mini bills, the nine amendments made by other ministries that were found last night to accompany it. I would also like to point out that the argument that the House is closing tomorrow is the same as that we have to deal with the last loose ends. Especially when we had a bill from the Ministry of Education in a three-day debate in the past few days, this is the most characteristic example, but also most ministries that have come to table amendments at the last minute. After three days of discussion in the Committee on Educational Affairs, Mrs Kerameau has chosen today's bill to bring an amendment to eight articles, an amendment which has based on the argument that we should observe the Rules of Procedure of the House, which, in the two years of governance of the New Democracy, we have seen him become really rubber and widen so much and change at once. It does not concern the Minister for Respect for Parliament's Rules of Procedure. What concerns her and we have seen all this year, all these two years, we have seen it in the past few days and today, is to prove the complete contempt for teachers, students, students and parents, as she always legislates, even in the amendment that she has brought today, to the detriment of the educational community, ignoring her protests and her proposals. It could have been tabled late on the basis of the Rules of Procedure - it would not have been the first time that we would have discussed a late amendment - and had been discussed in the committee with the bill that it brought and completed yesterday. I now come to Amendment No 1028 and Amendment No 14 by the Ministry of the Interior, an amendment consisting of nine articles relating to contracts of employment and the costs of the municipalities. The first has to do with cleaning contracts for the school units that have been passed on to the municipalities. It is planned to conclude fixed-term contracts if staff are not sufficient. We all know that the staff aren't enough. At the same time, it should be noted that the relevant CSR prior to this legislative intervention creates a specific status of four types of working relationships for workers in cleanliness, in fact by setting a number of criteria, foreign and foreign workers and workers. For example, one of these criteria is a certificate of language learning. If we think that we are talking mainly about women who really live out of these conventions and who are waiting for renewal to ensure their livelihood and the next year, we really see how maintaining the certificate of language learning, the criterion, throws her out. This blockade was denounced when Mr Theodorikos and the previous leadership as a whole of the Ministry of Interior had brought in the same prediction last year. We did it to the vain then. That's how we do it now. But we believe that it is worthwhile - to be heard in Parliament - because citizens are listening, watching what is happening and judging. The rest of the articles will not be extended. They are mainly contract extensions. I am going to stand by Amendment 1029 from the Ministry of Digital Governance. From it, I will dwell on its most problematic article in Article 5 on the FAITH Fund. When we were discussing your bill, Minister, which created this fund, I was - if my memory is not cheating - I am the buyer at that time. We had, as Mera25 from the outset, noted that it would not be able to give incentives to speed up investment, as you said, nor will it promote research, as all you had established was the transfer of yet another state asset to the few-government and private interests. By voting against today's amendment, we say a huge 'no' to the introduction of even more PPPs, with the public taking over costs and losses and always at the expense of the citizens and of course always in favour of the few. As regards Amendment 1033 with regulations on the debts created during the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, it is our firm position that the only solution for the debts of the pandemic period is haircuts, not regulation, not suspension and migration in the future. Only the haircut will be able to give our affected fellow citizens the necessary support, not to see a series of padlocks - which, unfortunately, will be seen in front of us in the next few years - and people will be able to live in panic and not live in their own family. Anything other than the haircut would work as a doctor would give aspirin to a cancer patient. He wouldn't help him, he wouldn't save him, he wouldn't even relieve him. Let us now go to Amendment 1035, an amendment to ten articles which really are irrelevant to each other. In fact, we see it being shot down like a card tower on the argument that you are trying to close loose ends before the House closes for the summer holidays. Any other, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your only concern is to serve your friends. If this is not the case, and if we say so in a misappropriated and petty mood: Can - or to be precise - you want to explain to us how the pandemic's debts are adjusted on the one hand and the Sacred Monastery's dispensation of Sinai for its properties in our country and the indirect predictions you are enacting for the ERAKLI predators' funds on the other? I shall now proceed to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health. And here, we are talking about an amendment of thirteen unrelated articles covering home vaccination until examinations of the acquisition of medical expertise. And in this very article I will stand, for a very simple and specific reason: it demonstrates once again, in a perimeter way and extremely glamorous manner, the fact that, both the Communism and the Civic Opposition, both the New Democracy and SYRIZA are the two sides of the same currency. If we look at 2016, we will remember the then president of the Board of Directors, Mr Marcos, actually draw from naphthalin a provision of the first memorandum, an unacceptable plan that aims to establish a global originality, a change in the procedure for examinations of medical expertise, a regulation that was finally legislated in 2019 without any consultation or discussion, because it was miraculously legislated by amendment. Of course, the huge volume of reactions has frozen the application. Nevertheless, it has been maintained as a prediction, which has opened the way to the article that we are seeing today. Of course, I have to give credit for today's work in the New Democracy, as it deserves, because it manages to take the originality a step further: it makes it worse, reduces the cities of examinations in Athens and Thessaloniki by charging and making it even more difficult for qualified doctors. I would like SYRIZA to clarify his position on the matter, so that it can be recorded what it is after all. The only thing for sure, ladies and gentlemen, is that both the groups, New Democracy and SYRIZA, you want to implement this Memorandum of Understanding - that is what the preservation from 2019 to today, and today's amendment - a commitment that wants doctors lifelong, obedient hostages of the great private - economic interests that represent the university establishment, and your privileged interlocutors, to whom you have given immunity when they are the Committee on Infections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need your tolerance for a few minutes, Madam President. In particular, this seems not only from your standpoint so far, but also from the strong opposition and resistance of the Ministry of Health to contact OENGE, with the representatives of doctors fighting every day and indeed the Ministry of Health refuses to see them. All in all, the Ministry of Health's amendment demonstrates once again the sloppiness and fragmentation with which the government is facing the pandemic. The results - or rather, to be precise, the lack of them - are seen daily around us. If you had really strengthened the ESS, if you really had created the network for free mass tests that we proposed to you since March 2020, things would have been better, the situation would have been better. I shall end with Mrs Mendoni's amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I received the reply from the Minister to my question concerning redundancies in the Solidarity Fund, which, for the sake of convenience, I will submit in the Minutes, even though it is on the page of this House. I'll stand in two places. First of all, in the written reply, the Minister invoked the opinion of the Legal Council of the State, which gave an opinion that Article 7 of Law 4598/2019 was not legal, because it was contrary to Article 103(7) and (8) of the Constitution and was contrary to the established case law of the Ice Bay. Nevertheless, when the 2019 Act was passed, why didn't you raise an issue of unconstitutionality at that time, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? You voted for this, too. That's for the story. Now the years have passed, it has flown water into the historical mill, but I think it's useful. Another point to which I am going to stand is the Minister's statement that all the contracts of employment of the remaining staff, which amount to twenty-three, of the Solidarity Fund of officials from the Ministry of Culture, are to be reported in August, according to the information provided by the liquidator. And the Minister closes by saying that "certain scientific trade unions as well as certain political bodies in their favourite tactics after attempting to appear as a protector of workers with a law contrary to the Constitution". Mrs Mendoni forgets that she is a party minister who voted for this piece of legislation - and she goes on to say: 'Now they are talking about revenge for the workers of the Solidarity Fund'. It is truly annoying to see the Minister's attempt to present as a charity the payment of allowances to the redundant workers and to move the finger out to anyone he thinks is next to the workers. Yesterday, Mr Brutsis, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, gave us a hint at Mera25 when our Secretary, Mr Varoufakis, made a reference to essays in high school, asking us to protect him from such an atrocities. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, today to revert to you by asking you to protect Ms. Mendoni from issuing such responses that show the hostility she has not only in terms of her ideological and political opponents, but above all in terms of workers. And I conclude by saying: I have to admit that after the final debate of the Ministry of Education's last legislation, and by comparing Mrs Kerameos's things on the one hand and Mrs Mendoni on the other, I cannot appreciate what she has done the greatest harm in its field of competence with direct impact on the citizens. We are certainly all judged, but we are all judged by analgesia and vengeance, but also by the blinds with which they are acting, react and legislate both by the ladies and gentlemen of society, as the legalisation and action of the government is annoying as a whole. So society will be found against all those who legislate against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u324	Thank you too, my colleague. The Minister has the floor, Mr Tsakloglu, to place himself on the amendment until the Step is cleared and then Mr Kokkalis will speak from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with our amendment to the House today, a number of important issues are dealt with, and they are urgent in relation to what Mrs Bakadima said earlier. First of all, with Articles 1 and 2, we are taking measures to alleviate the pandemic wounds in order to help them cope with their e-ECA debts. In particular, Article 1 of the amendment regulates the debts of current insurance contributions created during the pandemic period, namely from March 2020 to July 2021, this month. The new arrangement may include both enterprises and free traders whose insurance contributions had already received an extension of payment until 31 December 2021 and debts which have become due from 1 March 2020 to 31 July 2021 and from enterprises and professionals with activity codes, i.e. CARs, to be determined by a decision of the Ministry of Finance. Interested parties will be able to adjust their insurance contributions to up to seventy-two instalments with a minimum monthly instalment of EUR 50. Setting programs up to thirty-six monthly instalments will be harmless. Arrangements between thirty-seven and seventy-two instalments will be charged at an annual rate of 2.5%. The regulation shall be made subject to payment of the first instalment by 31 January 2020. By triggering the settlement, the debtor shall obtain evidence of a two-month period's intelligence and shall suspend the taking of necessary measures and the enforcement procedures on movable and immovable property, as well as criminal prosecutions and the execution of the penalties concerned. I would point out, however, that we do not want to create a new generation of delays. The regulation is lost if two instalments are not paid at the same time as a loss of benefits and the remainder of the debt is immediately due. Article 2 makes it possible to reincorporate into regulation arrangements for those affected by the pandemic and have lost their regulation from March 2020 to July 2021. The benefits are those of employers and freelance professionals are already under a dosing prolongation scheme for arrangements, but also those who have a main code, Mr. CAR, from an activity included in the relevant decision of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, workers in enterprises with these SMRs who have been put under a employment contract suspension regime at any time between 1 March 2021 and 31 July 2021 may be reintroduced to any arrangements for insurance contributions. A prerequisite for the reintegration into a regulation is the payment of two instalments, August and September, until the end of September 2021. Reintegrating is done under the same terms and conditions of the arrangement initially lost. I come to Article 6. This is the amendment to the social security contributions of the workers of Scaramaga shipyards from April 2012 to September 2013. With Article 6, we have solved the problem of the insurance of Scaramaga shipyard workers, which has been pending since 2013. For a period of eighteen months, from April 2012 to September 2013, the employees had been put under rotating employment and the relevant detailed periodic statements, i.e., the ADR, had not been submitted from the company at the time. As a result, there was no worker insurance for that period. The company was granted special management status in 2018 and at the beginning of July the tender for the sale of its assets was completed. With the proposed provision we are going to put an end to the workers' uncertainty as to what is going to happen in insurance for the period in question. In particular, the terms and procedures for the submission of the relevant APR are laid down by the company in liquidation for the eighteen-month period, including the APR for Christmas and Easter gifts as well as the licence allowance. For each salary period, complete days of insurance are recognised on the basis of remuneration and the cover package each employee had before rotating employment. The time to be reported will be considered as a real pension insurance period. The regulation excludes workers for whom the insurer has already made charges, and their insurance time has already been recorded through this procedure, as it obviously cannot be recorded twice for the same period and for the same employer. This provision solves the insurance part of the problem and does not affect any other claims of workers from the company either on a wage or on a service basis. Let me remind you that since November 2020 I had assured the Parliament from this step forward that in the difficult situation where the government is facing it it is not oriented by its main objective, namely attracting investments and changing the country's productive model. I had stressed that the goodwill of the investment also comes through the normalisation of the serious gaps that concern the workers. That is what we are doing today in good cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. We believe that it will dawn a new day for the Scaramaga Shipyards, under new management and with the workers arranged for insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on you to vote in favour of all the regulations in this amendment as, on the one hand, facilitate the provision of insurance and, on the other hand, arrange insurance for workers in Scaramaga shipyards and free the development prospects of the shipbuilding industry in our country. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u327	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u328	You have the floor, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u329	Mr Minister, I would first of all like to say that the amendment should be in the other draft legislation. I do not understand why he comes to today's bill, while, on the same day, he comes the Ministry of Labour's bill which is being discussed in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u330	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u331	Then it'll be voted on. But it's talkin'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u332	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u333	What's next?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u334	It will be voted after the opening of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u335	Good. Okay. You had the possibility and the margin to bring them in earlier. In any case, no one can say that this is a proper way of legislating. In other words, at the same time that the Ministry of Labour is recommending a bill to another Chamber of Parliament, here in plenary to be of the Ministry of Digital Governance. But I'm actually going in. Articles 1 and 2 are positive provisions. In Article 3, for the deletion of personal data, you are essentially defined for the protection of personal data and the deletion of personal data. I think you should give an answer because it has not been the case so far and why you are now setting a holiday on 30 days to delete the data and who is responsible for the processing and who is responsible for the protection of personal data on the basis of the general personal data protection regulation. I would also like to say another article in which we agree. It is very important and positive that Article 6, which concerns Greek shipyards and workers. It is a regulation that the workers welcome and it is good that you incorporate it. But you have a problematic article, Article 5, and that is why I would like to ask you: is that photographic provision, Mr Tsakloglu, Mr Secretary-General? Because the information we have, in principle, the GSC has denounced on this article that it is photographic and, secondly, that a judicial decision is passed in order to be able to appoint a chairman in the Economic and Social Committee. I would like to expressly mention your reference and tell us whether you intend to remove Rule 5 in order to consider our position, because I have told you that all the other provisions, the other articles of the amendment are in a positive direction and we welcome them. But Article 5 is purely photographic and you need to give an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u336	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, too. To put it down, it is obviously not, to refute Article 5, which you are referring to. In the first part you mentioned, in the GBDR, and I did not listen to you before, and I am not sure whether I am responding well to your question. In the first of the two you said about the GBDR, these are the standard rules that we always follow. There's nothing special about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u338	What are you changing now? What do you change? The number of days?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u339	Nothing. It's normal. The second thing you've said to me, we obviously don't testify to it, so we can undo it. We put it before us, so that it can be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Coke from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's legislation with last-minute amendments, including ten and twelve articles, offends against any concept of parliamentary democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill today dealing with the daily lives of our fellow citizens, whether it is small or large. The critical word that characterizes this bill, but it also characterises a government, if it truly respects the citizens, is the word of confidence. It is no coincidence that in the explanatory statement to this law, it is clearly stated that the purpose of this bill is to strengthen the confidence in the National Stock Exchange by citizens. First of all, let me say that we all have a duty to support the institution of the register, which is an institution which has had many problems in the past. Much has been solved, much has not been solved. To make two things clear: What people wanted and what they want from the Land register. Because some people don't know. They wanted and wanted to register quickly their right to property, but also to quickly and quickly to register in the register. Also, quick trial of any objections. Question rhetoric: Are citizens enjoying this? Unfortunately, no. We have heard that there are thousands of applications for real estate. What the government is now saying and I will use Mr Pierrakakis' argument: "For a few unfinished reasons, we will proceed with the realisation work." The fact is, of course, that this is the case, so that the evaluation houses abroad can see that the realisation programme has been completed. That's the main reason. For a few loose ends, we're going directly to the first entry. It's indicative of what he said. It made me a terrible impression. "Everything is, otherwise nothing is solved." I will repeat it, and I will give it as appropriate - I think - an answer. What's the problem? I have heard many colleagues say that there will be a problem with trade safety. What does a problem mean, ladies and gentlemen, to trade safety? Just say it, not legal. The properties, for which there are doubts, will be out of trade, and it means that they will not be sold. It will be difficult to sell, difficult to borrow the owners of these properties. Why? The question is: Do you build and build confidence in the citizens by this piece of legislation, when you say to them "Do you know, if you object for any reason, will the objection appear and you will not be able to sell it or use it or anything else that the citizen can do in his property"? So you want to build the state's trust toward the citizen? Because this relationship forgets that it is two-way. It is not only enough for the citizen to show confidence in the state. The state must, for its part, build confidence in the citizen. Is this link to this piece of legislation, with which fundamental rights are actually being abolished? The answer is what the Minister said - the Minister is missing - 'all wasted, nothing wasted'. As long as it's all broken up, it's not wasted. That's what you're doing. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All you have to do is show that the cemetery has been resolved. And you don't care if it's actually solved. Is this a relationship of confidence that you want to build with the citizen? With Article 17, according to which you will be appointed? It reminds me of the appointments of hospital managers. When a man has a five-year term in a real estate office, does it not make sense to anyone - to speak frankly - to suspect that he might not do his job properly, because if the government changes, he can leave? Why should it not be appointed by means of an APA tender, with appropriate qualifications? So, I repeat, will trust be built? With Article 24 why do you have other than topographers of technological education, topographers of engineers and geoinformatics topographers? Don't they have the same qualifications as the other engineers? Why are they unable to do this work referred to in Article 24? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Two words - with your tolerance, Mr President, I have not yet exceeded seven minutes - on the amendments made by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. I'm sure it's not what the market wants and wants. We have said this once again, and we repeat it: when the debts created were not created by the trader's responsibility, it is unfair, it is not legal, it is not right to ask the trader to pay all the debt and not to make a 'cut' of the debt. I repeat, when the debt was created during the pandemic with a state mandate and the businesses closed down, the seventy-eight erects constitute a mockery. Indicative is that those who have arranged are not included. This seems to be the case, ladies and gentlemen. In order for someone to join this arrangement, which will be voted on today, he must lose the one he has. Involve them, too. Finally, with insurance, you must restore an injustice with regard to those who owe the insurance funds, over EUR 20,000, free professionals and farmers over EUR 6 000. Another right to a pension, which is a constitutional right and another debt. We are dealing on the one hand with a decent living for the potential pensioner and, on the other, with an insurance fund. He won't lose his money on the insurance fund. Give a solution to those who owe more than EUR 20,000 and cannot get a pension and are the free traders and farmers who owe more than EUR 6 000. And a word about the employees' requests at the Citizen Service Centres. I think that the government must bend to their problems, not only to answer their demands, but also to bend to the problems of workers in the civil service centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Loading from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill and another very important innovation. A bill that today comes to a vote and aims to speed up and simplify the procedures of the Greek Stock Exchange to provide better services to both citizens and professionals. But of course it works and what else? Fast and free access to the land register. Apart from these provisions, however, the draft law also introduces other very important provisions concerning new digital services, always of course in the service of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me today to refer to the part of the bill on the Greek register. Since the first attempts to possess the 19th century in the Greek state and even though the Greek Land register entered our lives in the mid-90s, so many years later almost 35% of the country has been built. Since 1996, when the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Kostas Laliotis declared the start of the training of a National Stock Exchange and stated then that the only European states that did not have a Stock Exchange were Greece, and Albania, today, twenty-five years later, Greece does not have a National Register, and on the contrary has a Neighbourhood Country. A country, therefore, which attaches as much importance to private property as to real estate, such as our own, has not even taken care of its own record. In addition, the purpose of the Land register is to define and adopt the forest land, as well as public and private property, so that the state knows what the public property is and what extent the public property is. So we're putting class in public and private property. The situation described is unacceptable for our country in the twenty-first century. In addition, of course, to the suffering caused to the citizens, it also acts as an obstacle to growth and investment. From now on all this information about the properties of the country becomes accessible to their owners and also to professionals involved in transactions around them, abolishing bureaucracy and suffering, saving natural time and resources. So this bill speeds up procedures by completing them within two years. It naturally gives access to the electronic services in this register to facilitate citizens and lawyers, but also to all those who are moving around it. It introduces the electronic property file, provides for the definition of a real estate year. It shall extend until 31 December 2022 to correct incorrections of the first records. In addition, it introduces the mediation process as well as various arrangements for the immovable property of an unknown owner. At this point I would like to make a proposal to the Ministry's leadership on this matter. Article 13, Minister, stipulates that the Greek State is not obliged to justify any negative answer of the application for the correction of a manifest error for immovable property of an unknown owner. In the event of a negative answer, the head shall reject the application. I believe that the Greek State should provide sufficient justification, especially for any negative response to applications, and that this should be clean. In addition, I would like to raise another issue with regard to the mortgage guards who will, of course, assume the responsibility of the head of staff. I think they should be given some priority over the others who will be calling for the position of Head, mainly because of their experience. Their inclusion in the register is absolutely useful and I would say that it is necessary to complete it. Ladies and gentlemen, digital technology is changing our lives by improving our everyday lives and trade. The Ministry has done and carried out a very important project. Its importance is proved every day, and the aim of this legislative intervention is to push red tape for the benefit of the economy, investment and jobs, and ultimately for the benefit of Greek citizens. We are therefore determined, and we are driving our country into a new era of digital age, with the aim and the well-being of citizens and the strengthening of businesses. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mrs. Kafantari has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Madam President. I really am asking today, a question arises as to which bill we really are talking about. Almost half of the government was paralyzed by this step towards a number of amendments which many of them could also be separate bills, and amendments which call for even votes and rules, so to speak, of the New Democracy Government. After all, self-reviewing the government is something very common. Of course, all of this shows whether what Mr Mitsotakis proclaims is 'final state'. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, before I started putting myself in the bill, I wanted to say a few things. First of all, I should like to give a reply to Mr Hardalia, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, who first thing in the morning mentioned something false, which is not the case. He has never sent a letter to the Parliamentary Groups of his State Secretary for an Interparliamentary Committee on Civil Protection. We have not received that, and we have checked it from Parliament's services. Perhaps he doesn't know that, maybe it's about some public invitation he might have made to his communication oestrus, because we really did live fires yesterday and, unfortunately, in Greece that climate change is synthesizing. So it may have been publicly inviting such an invitation, but it actually doesn't exist. On the other hand, although many times we have been put here in plenary on anti-nuclear protection and preparation, it has been misguided even from the Geranias when it said that everything is ready and everything is working well. Of course what he said after that really calls for us to walk together to Stop, to Dionysus. Yesterday, the area of civil protection and civil protection walked in the area and could not come out and say that all good and the consequences of the "Media" in February have been restored and so there was no disaster. There's still logs, there's still exposed biomass, which hasn't been collected. And let me say that the 'Dryades' programme and the eighteen points and all that. Let us be a little more careful in this particular matter. Now, first of all, he has spoken of the direct assignments that are characteristic of civil protection. The amendment and the addition that has been made is a matter of this. Of course, that's all asking questions. The result is that the preparation of our country's anti-missile is not what we had to do and unfortunately we have had negative consequences so far. Let's hope it'll be up here. I'm coming from now on. Mr Mitsotakis' "final state" collapses every day. Apart from the part I mentioned before the country's anti-nuclear armour, we have a number of issues. Mr. Chacloglu is gone. I would like to ask him why thirty thousand retired people yesterday and the day before yesterday did not get the retrospectives that said they would be given at the end of July? In fact, the company which has undertaken to calculate and work in this direction has not been able to do so. So, quite simply, she did not have time to do so, while on the part of the Ministry and his executive there are no clauses for the company that she did not do her job in the timescale she had to. On the other hand, we also have a Prime Minister - the second state authority in our own country - who hates transparency in his own country. Questions seriously, which we as SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance will insist on. Of course, we also have a Prime Minister who said two or three days ago that there would be no penalties for compulsory vaccination for teachers, and the amendment that Mrs Keramos said on the subject had been said when the draft law on education was passed: 'We want to not legislate badly'. It is a bad piece of legislation that an amendment should come without being discussed, delay and so on. And today, in this draft Digital Policy Act, we have what they define for teachers and penalties, so to speak, if they do not get vaccinated or bear a certificate, without specifying how the tests will be done and who will pay them. So what we have been saying since the beginning of the pandemic, the prescribing of tests, universal tests, the policies of tracing. And now, of course, we are clearly in favour of vaccination. Now, let's talk about the bill. It is a project that has accelerated in SYRIZA government. He became a legal person governed by public law. We received a 25%. In two years we reached 60%. But our country - you two years of inertia - is still the only one in Europe, and you are talking about investment, which we want to see. So far we have not seen any remarkable foreign investment for two years. If there is, tell us. But an investor of a serious nature, not a jet, wants to know the terms, rules, Land registers, urban issues, forest maps, which you took back to this area. How are the investments coming? The first and main thing you've done with the governance of your party, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you've transferred the Stock Exchange to the Ministry of Digital Policy, i.e. it's dealt with as a digital issue. There's nowhere to be found for you, Ministry of the Environment, there's no Ministry of Justice, not all of this. And all that in the name of speeding up procedures. You say that this will speed up the processes of realignment and so on, hitting credibility... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yes, Madam President, just a minute. By hitting the credibility of the institution, you are actually turning it into the future, while you say that you are closing matters and solving the problem. But how are they going to close down with private engineers and lawyers like you did with the accountants and lawyers? We have no objections to the accredited engineer, but under what conditions? The Mitsotakis Government, after having been caught up with the threats of fines and parallel extensions, now comes to vote on this bill, despite the loose ends of many property rights. Many owners and, of course, their helpers will always be left to private engineers and lawyers, who will, on the basis of the law, take on a fee to find solutions, their helpers will also be the new owners of landlords who will be chosen according to the government's will. With two words - and I close, Madam President - it allows this bill to be bought in real estate which has ownership outstandings. The responsibility for proving property for an area invoked and by the public will be borne by the public, not by the citizen. This is the first time that the public has been lighting the green light on property sales that have no clear ownership status. At the same time, a register is being created outside the register. Thank you. Thanks for the time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Melas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill by the Ministry of Digital Governance is another step in the steps that have been taken on the path of the state's digital transformation. The omissions and failures over the years identified in the National Register are settled with this bill. The organisation and operation of the Land register has been in operation for many years. The Minister also mentioned it in his speech when the Government Leaf from Otto’s time presented it. Perhaps the first - first debate, historically, has also taken place on Kapodist. It is true that the first procedures with the Stock Exchange, as we know it and as it is being organised today, started around 1995. It is therefore not complete until now that it makes it difficult for the transfer of real estate and makes it difficult for the public administration to function. It goes without saying that it also has a negative impact on the development of the real estate market in our country. The ktimatolgio.gov.gr, which started operation last April, is an important step. Professionals, such as notaries, engineers, lawyers through this platform can access property data. However, many steps still need to be taken. With this draft law we are introducing provisions on speeding up, simplifying and safeguarding the procedures of the register. How do we do it? We are reducing by two years, in the medium term, the timetable for the full operation of the register in those areas where this has not yet been completed in terms of ownership. This is about 65% of the country, as at present around 35% have been completed. Secondly, with the change in the procedure for opening the register: to date, a timely process is needed. Upon posting the landmarks, the objections process begins and after all objections have been finalised, then the vet's office of each area is run. This process today can last for even four years. What's wrong with the bill? Moreover, after the suspension, submission of objections and following the correction of apparent errors, each region will acquire a real estate register. The objections will normally be heard and the owners will not be deprived of any of their rights. For the period during which each objection is mediated, it shall be recorded on the margin of the property's real estate sheet. And why are we doing this? The evidence shows that only 2% of the properties are objected to. So it can't hold 2% hostage and in a delay 98% of the properties and their owners. What else do we do with this bill? We are extending until 31 December 2022 so that all citizens can check and correct the inaccurate first registrations of the property. Also, for unknown property is predicted that if the public does not respond within sixty days that it has rights, then the property is registered as the person who goes and declares it. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a special reference to Article 29 of the bill, to the electronic property file. It is an important part of the transfer and, in particular, of the real estate sales. With the electronic property file, the transfer process will be initiated and completed in the notary’s office, which will have access to all the supporting documents necessary for the transfer of the property. These documents, which are currently being searched in paper form, will be digitised and available through the interoperability of public services. For this purpose, a digital platform will be set up, which will be available through gov.gr. The electronic property file shall digit, facilitate, simplify and speed up all stages of the real estate transfer process. Let us look at some elements in order to understand the importance of this reform. Our country still remains the only Member State of the European Union without a fully operational register. It is characteristic that in Denmark the digitisation process began in 2009. Today it is compulsory to submit electronics for any transfer of real estate. This reform in Denmark resulted in the transfer of a property today being required only four days from forty-two required in 2003. So they have saved time and money. Also, our country today ranks in the hundred and fifty-sixteenth of the eighty-seven in the index of the real estate transfer, according to the World Bank's Doing Business report. On average, eleven documents are needed in our country to complete a transfer of property, while the world average is in 4.7 documents. In fact, according to the case of the transfer of the property, it may still be necessary for twenty - three documents to be transferred. Ladies and gentlemen, all these regulations improve the functioning of the register, facilitate trade and deal with the bureaucracy of the real estate market, help attract investment. The importance of these interventions has also been mentioned by the bodies in the preparation of the draft law in the committee responsible. The arrangements provided for in the bill fall within the general framework of the State's digital transformation. It is a self-evident development for the Greek society, which, although late, is implemented by the Government of New Democracy. In these two years, important steps have been taken by the Ministry of Digital Governance, steps we see in everyday life. It is gov.gr, which started in March 2020 with five hundred one service, and today a thousand two hundred fourteen digital services are provided to citizens. The state's digital transition needs consistency and continuity, however. This is why 23% of the Greek recovery plan is expected to be made available for the digital transformation of our economy. In fact, among the first twelve projects included in Greece 2.0, as announced, it includes the digitisation of mortgages for the National Stock Exchange, a budget of 242 million euros. These reforms have two features: first, they have a strong social footprint, because it makes it easier to deal with the public. Secondly, they have a development footprint, because they reduce bureaucracy, so as to facilitate investment and create new jobs. Our aim, despite the difficulties caused by the pandemic of the coronary, is for Greece to acquire a competitive and extroverted economy. All of us see the consequences of the pandemic in the global economy and, at the same time, we see our country attracting interest in investment in new technologies, innovation and energy. There must be no step backwards. We mustn't get our economy into adventures again. That is why in the situation where we are living the only weapon we have in order to avoid such misappropriation, it is to shield our country sanitaryly and strengthen the vaccinations, to leave away the frustrations and unreasonable arguments of the contaminants. With the vaccines we return to normality and the sacrifices of the Greek people will not be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. It is now up to the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Besiropoulos, to place himself on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's institutional and reform work continues with unsatisfactory intensity. Changes and reforms are the ones that will give a comparative advantage to our country, in the future, especially in critical areas. Those who have invested in catastrophe and populism see their expectations being disproved and developments and society itself overtaken. Apart from the reform work, however, the Government continues its interventions to facilitate the return to normality of all Greek citizens inclusive. I have taken the floor to refer to another series of interventions in this direction, which are reflected in the amendment, with a general number of 1035 and a special number of 21, tabled by the Ministry of Finance. The first two articles of the amendment have as a reference the new regulation on debts created from March 2020 to July 2021, that is, during the pandemic period and the revitalization of the older regulations of the hundred and one hundred twenty instalments, as well as the extrajudicial compromise. In particular, Article 1 of the amendment provides for the possibility of adjusting the debts of the pandemic period even in seventy-two instalments. If someone chooses the number of thirty six instalments, payment of the debts will be done unnecessarily. While in the case of the seventy-two instalments there is a very low interest rate of 2.5%. The development of the data and the consequences of the pandemic has created the need to improve this framework. After all, this government is distinguished by realism and pragmatism. These two elements have guided its initiatives to support the Greek economy and society with EUR 41 billion from the beginning of the pandemic. I note that the first instalment of the new arrangement should be paid by 31 January 2022 and the minimum amount of the monthly instalment is set at EUR 30 for debts up to EUR 1 000 and EUR 50 if the debt is higher. The beneficiaries of this new favourable regulation are, firstly, natural and legal persons who have been identified as affected by the pandemic. Secondly, natural persons whose contract of employment was suspended between 1 March 2020 and 31 July 2021. Thirdly, those who received special-purpose compensation. Fourthly, those who received a reduced rent. Fifthly, those who joined the 'CONTRIAL AND WORK' programme and sixthly those who were enrolled in the OAS's unemployment register at the same time. It is also foreseen that, as long as this is done, proof of tax information is provided for all legal use while seizures and enforcement measures are suspended. Article 2 of the amendment has as a benchmark debtors who have been affected by the pandemic who have lost the regulation of the percentage and the percentage of twenty instalments during the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 July 2021. For all of these, the revival of the one hundred and twenty-dollar arrangement is introduced under the same conditions and conditions as the original arrangement and with the possibility of reviving this arrangement with all its benefits, such as the release of bank accounts. Revival is activated by the payment of the August dose by the end of September together with the September dose. The same applies to the regulation of the extrajudicial compromise. The next article on the amendment, Article 3, contains another facilitation measure for citizens. This article provides the possibility of repayment of the EMI for 2021 in six equal instalments with the first instalment of payment in September 2021 and the last instalment in February 2022. Article 4 grants an exemption from HNPH to the Holy Monastery of the Theobadist Mount Sinai. This exemption is a sign of recognition and intensified respect for the oldest Christian monastery located in the centre of the desert of the Sinai peninsula, which is recognised as a monument of global heritage by UNESCO but also constitutes a measure of support for the project and its continuity along the way of time. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Madam President. Wanting to support the purchase of real estate, with the next article, we are giving the possibility of extending the deadline for the submission of a request by builders for a suspension of VAT on the delivery of real estate by 31 January 2021 for permits issued by the end of June 2021. A measure with a substantial social character is included in Article 6 of the amendment under which the defibrillators are subject to the excessively reduced rate of VAT of 6% up to 31 December 2022. Defibrillators are essential medical devices to deal with the sudden heart arrest, which suggests subjecting them to the excessively reduced VAT rate. The next provision shows our practical support for sport, a sector particularly affected by the pandemic. Our support is expressed by extending for another year until June 2022 the application of the reduced VAT rate of 13% on sports tickets. Article 8 of the amendment allows natural persons who will submit an income tax by 27 August to have the 3% tax deduction in the event of a one-off payment of the resulting amount of tax up to the last working day of August. Article 9 of the amendment comes to fill the institutional gap in the determination of emissions of pollutants in the procedures for the clearance of caravans by the customs authorities. The provision we are bringing to the vote is introduced for automotive caravans a single-scale increase in the rates of classification referred to in Article 121 of the national Customs Code for carbon dioxide emissions purposes. This specific scale shall be structured on the basis of the previous Euro Pollutant Emission Limits Specifications and shall be applied independently of the other proposed increases in order to determine the corresponding classification fee. The last article of the amendment amends provisions to prevent insolvency contained in Law 4738/2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all of the articles in the amendment to which I have referred will be the subject of consensus between all the political forces. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis continues, as you can see, to take effective measures to support and facilitate citizens. For us all returning to normality is a dominant and conscious choice. I believe that the content of the amendment sets out the conditions for Parliament to vote as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a request for decades brings this legislative initiative of the government closer to its completion by speeding up the implementation of the property register and providing new digital services to the citizen. The draft law on digital governance has a main target: the rapid launch of the national property register throughout the country. A project that troubled the Greek society with time-consuming and cost-consuming processes which blocked the public itself even in endless attempts to simplify an extremely complicated situation. By submitting statements of registered rights by the citizens following a difficult verification of their legality, posting the details, submission of new applications for correction or objections, examination of them by the Bureau or the Objective Committees and, ultimately, the reform of the landmark tables and charts after the judgments have been delivered and judgments have been delivered on all the objections submitted. The proposed draft law will speed up by at least two years the start of the stock register in areas where the ownership process is still pending. This in itself is an administrative mismanagement due to the practical way in which the relevant Ministry is approaching the problem. In particular, the new framework ensures all the rights of those who consider themselves to be affected on the basis of the elements of the suspension, but at the same time speeding up this stage. According to statistics from the already registered areas, 98% of the real estate in a region could be recorded in the register immediately after the suspension without any other procedures required. It is something that has not been done so far since the current institutional framework stipulates that all applications and opinions to the contrary should have been dealt with for entries affecting other owners. Now, after the posting, citizens will submit applications for the correction of the real estate data and the realisation office will correct what manifest or non-misleading errors can by reshaping the real estate tables and charts. Then, of course, only for those cases where there is a dispute, a report will be drawn up and it will be forwarded to the resolution committees. This means that immediately after the correction of all those errors that are easily corrected will begin practically the operation of the stock register in that area as the first entries in the livestock books will be carried out much faster. Here I would like to know the intervention of both Mr Pierracakis and Mr Styly in order for citizens to obtain substantial online access to the property register. The newly put into operation on gov.gr and allows professionals, first, free access to the electronic services of the register, enables the receipt of certificates but also for the submission of requests for registration of acts such as contracts, actions or judicial decisions. This makes access to the livestock service easier, faster and less costly. I note here that, until the end of the process of obtaining a certificate, on-the-spot investigations and visits to the land registers more than once were required, while with the proposed changes citizens using the TAXISNET codes they will be able to receive any certificate they need electronically. Madam President, another aspect of the draft law is the extension until 31 December 2022 for the correction of inaccurate first real estate records. That is to say, the possibility of correcting all errors out of court or judicial proceedings whether they relate to property of a known or unknown owner. In fact, in view of the fact that on 31 December 2021 all the properties recorded as an unknown owner would have come to the Greek State, this extension is absolutely necessary for citizens to check the first registrations of their properties and to correct them so that they can finally protect their properties. The possibility of correcting inaccuracies of the first real estate documents by means of the mediation procedure is also introduced. To date, irrevocably, an irrevocable judicial decision has been required, and now private individuals, if they agree, can resolve the dispute compromise by saving time and money. More generally and with a view to substantially improving the quality of the legal protection provided, the definition of a land-use year, a specialised judge, who will judge the relevant cases to a second degree. Finally, the process of correcting manifest errors with the indication of an unknown owner is reformed. To date, in order to correct these entries, the express consent of the Greek State was required, which the latter never granted. With the new arrangement, the consent of the Greek State to correct the apparent error will be presumed by the non-proliferation of objections within sixty days of the performance of the request. Then the head of the stock register, if other legal conditions are met, will have to correct the registration. This development will help to decongest the courts and avoid long-term judiciary owners. Furthermore, the proposed draft law introduces the electronic property transfer file by making it considerably easier to transfer a property at all stages. This is an intervention aimed at simplifying and digitising the sales that will start and be electronically completed at the notary's office. This acceleration will be achieved primarily through the digitisation of more than seventeen certificates. These documents to date were sought in paper form by a series of departments. They will now be granted electronically through an extensive network of public registries. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour which regulates debts created during the pandemic period, that is, from March 2020 to July 2021 with regard to the insurance funds. The first important point is to increase doses from forty-eight of the previous arrangement to seventy-two. Secondly and equally important is the reintegration into regulation of those affected by the pandemic and lost their previous regulation from March 2020 to July 2021. Both undertakings and the free traders whose insurance contributions had been extended until 31 December 2021 and the debts which have become due from 1 March 2020 to 30 July 2021 for SMR laid down by a decision of the Ministry of Finance. This is therefore a substantial reduction in all professionals by 31 January 2022. New arrangements as thirty-six monthly instalments will be offloaded, and from thirty-seven to seventy-two instalments will be charged with a small annual interest rate of 2.5%. With the activation of the arrangement, the debtor will receive evidence of a two-month period's intelligence, while the suspension of enforcement and enforcement on its movable and immovable property is suspended. A prerequisite for the reintegration of professionals and businesses into the regulation is their payment of two instalments by September. It is also important to point out that the Ministry of Finance, moving towards the relief of the debtors due to the pandemic, opens, as the Minister of Finance said, with a new regulation and the late tax debts created during the coronary crisis and which can now be regulated in the same way. Also, they can now revive lost tax arrangements with all their first payment benefits in August and lost instalments can be transferred at the end of the arrangement. All the above interventions confirm the social sensitivity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and its continued support for society, because at the end of the day everyone must remain up and strong at the end of the pandemic and of the economic crisis that it has brought about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u352	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Santorinios from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by starting my speech today on the Imian herd of Antonis Veziropoulos who died and who was the one who kept economic life in Imia and kept Greece in Imia and is very important. It is very important that the Court of Auditors’ fact and error asking for the costs of fuel provided by the municipality of Kalmonia to be unduly paid for in the past. I think that a legislative solution should be given. Minister, we need to see this very seriously and very directly. Once again, behind an imaginary title, there is a handshake of the "excellent" service state and this time on such a crucial subject as the land register. We hide everything under the rug and we're done. Very nice. The foundation stone of the Land register is clean property and not pending property. The Minister's view that we cannot wait for the perfect is therefore a waste in this case, because if it is not perfect, real estate will not be used in terms of property. At the same time, of course, as you are used to us, the government has still brought nine bills. The bill we are discussing has forty-seven articles, if I am not mistaken, but in total we have seventy additional articles in amendments. The terrible thing is that if we agree with one of these articles or we should vote on the whole amendment or at all. So we cannot express our opinion on the articles and have a real debate, such as, for example, the amendments tabled by Mr Besyropoulos, where we can agree with someone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u354	Not to some. You all agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u355	I give an example, Mr. Besyropoulou. We could argue and be so central that it would lead us to vote against. But if it were a regular bill procedure, that wouldn't happen. Today the entire Ministerial Council has passed from here just before the House closes for its summer holidays. And is this the only way in which the parliamentary procedure is downgrading? Is this the only way Parliament is underestimated? I'll tell you two other cases. The debate on the large deal of subsidiary insurance is now taking place in the committees and you let it be discussed in September. You let it exist, talk about the great deal you bring. Even worse, however, it is what will happen tomorrow. With fast track procedures we are discussing one of the largest financial packages that come to the country and have not been consulted. After all, the downgrading of the role of Parliament is seen by the methods you do to hide the story with the Prime Minister's 'avoided'. After you have done everything you can to ensure that the committee responsible does not meet, after a storm of responses to manoeuvring have arisen, you have proceeded to a poaching. You met the committee, but you went to file Mr. Mitsotakis' "subjects" on the list of Members of Parliament with loose ends to be filed. And since there was a whole fuss and you were caught with the sprout on the back, you said Greek people that it was done by mistake, an official of the House made the mistake. It wasn't by mistake! You know very well that Mr. Mitsotakis hides his wife's offshore company from his "outsides". You know that you are in breach of the law prohibiting political persons and their relatives from having offshore companies. How to forget it anyway! Weren't you the ones who ran to make sure you didn't vote 'yes' or 'no' when we brought the relevant arrangement? You almost got yourself killed here at the door. We are telling you very clearly. We won't let you cover it up! If all this happened in another European Union country, the Prime Minister could not stand for an hour. Now we're going to the bill. When we took over the country's rule of law, we fought a battle to proceed with flagrant interventions, flagrant reforms that would help strengthen legal certainty and accelerate investment in a secure institutional environment. The forest maps proceeded, specific spatial planning plans were drawn up, cavalry was drawn up. As far as realisation is concerned, because Mr Pierracakis asked us, we got it from 25% to 60%. Two years with the rule of New Democracy there is no progress in the evolution of the property register. After two years of inertia, you come to preach a work as complete, with huge loose ends. This is how you perpetuate legal uncertainty and do not contribute to the creation of a secure business environment. How does the project conclude? Transfer to the property register of each property the rights outstanding. And I ask you, Minister. Are you going to buy a plot that's unfinished? Because you know very well that the next day any uniform property will come to question rights. Who are you going to make a contract with the owner, with the oath, or with the person who hasn't yet made a statement and who's likely to claim rights over this property? So how is legal certainty established? How does a secure business environment become so that investment can proceed in this place? You're not doing anything at all. Just hide the problem underneath the rug, so you can come here and tell us that you solved it, like you've solved a number of other things. As for this 2% rate that you claim to be delaying 98%, you are ignoring 44% of undeclared allowances to date for which no attempt has been made to join the real estate register. So your main argument is completely in the air. It doesn't exist. In the years of the pandemic, you did not give the extensions required to achieve the target of warning to correct errors. I would like to close, Madam President, and thank you for your time, with a reference to the most historic real estate registers in our country. As you know, I come from the Dodecanese. All we had was Rhodes, Kos and Leros. You are re-expanding their transport at the moment, modernising them. And what's going on? We leave it to the Ministry of Justice without engineers, without infrastructure and the worst, about ten months ago, the Rhodes Stockbook has been closed! There's no transcription! The entire property market in Rhodes has stopped. Do you know what this means to buy you? And you know why? Because there is a problem in the building stock and the Ministry of Justice, the district and the municipality cannot find it. Hey, you're all blue. Find them and we're done, so they can finally work on this register! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor is now given by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, George Stylos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will try to gather my thoughts, help my fellow Members to clarify some things, as I have tried in the debate in the relevant parliamentary committee, where four days have taken place in four meetings, and explanations and answers have been given. As we all understand, and as those of us who know about the issue of the register - and these are, above all, lawyers, politicians, topographers, architects, notaries, judges, accountants - many of our fellow Members, and especially the opposition - do not know about the issue we are talking about and about today. There's a question. Do we want to build a land register in the country? We, as a government, say 'yes', that we want to have an integrated register. This answer is given by both citizens and professionals that they want to have an integrated register. So we all want to have a real estate register, an organised system. What's the register? It is a system for collecting rights, a system for registering civil rights. This system for us is an information system that we want to do and a digital system. Why would we make it a digital system? Because we are a Ministry of Digital Governance and we have special love for the country's digital transformation and we believe him and we want him? It is also a reason for this, but the first and most important reason is that we want to give Greek society, Greek citizens, to the business community of the country, digital services, which they need and need to do to make their work much faster and easier, twenty-four hours, seven days a week, from anywhere in the world, to the territory, to the family, to be able to use and use these services available. That is why we have been working for the past six months, until the concrete, structured legislative initiative has come, of course, organising an official dialogue with all the institutions. We've received memos, they've been logged. These haven't been secretly done. It didn't happen randomly, but with the whole thing. We have come to the bill you have before you today. The draft law will therefore be speeded up by at least two years in which the register operates. Thus, the citizens will have access to the services we have mentioned. This is really a very big project. Allow me, in your memory, to withdraw the expression of a leading Central Left official who told you in committee and you adopted it today, adopted by the rapporteur for Officerial Response, and the Minister mentioned it: the largest of the major projects. So, most of the big projects, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis intends to complete it and digit it. So, with the operation of the digital register, we will become pioneers in Europe, we will have know-how that we will be able to export, as has been done with other processes. I would remind you of the 'ELDRERIA' plan, its closure of the date that has been so welcomed and we have taken credit for the rest of the European governments. This is a project that was curated and sealed by the Minister of State and Minister of Digital Governance, Kyriakos Pierracakis, who has the honor and joy of being a partner and working together. It has therefore proved, ladies and gentlemen, in practice, that the division of responsibilities, with the real estate offices being the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and the mortgages of the Ministry of Justice, that we have not achieved results. So we changed the way in which we approached this project. So in the register we acknowledged that a change must be made. For this reason, it was transferred from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Digital Governance as a whole. We are moving towards a transformation of the Land register, the agency, where the three hundred ninety mortgage offices of the country will merge with the land registers and there will be seventy-five branches and seventy-seven real estate offices. We are moving forward, we are implementing the creation of a new body. So, with this philosophy, we are moving forward. For what were the results and what was the operator's picture to date? Since 1995, where many of you have referred to today in the First Act on Certification, we have unfortunately come to have an integrated register of about 35% of the country. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would like to open up a parentheses here because a lot has been heard from the Qualified Opposition. And I ask you - you can do so, within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny - to ask a question in the Greek register, to get the answer, where the holding was in 2015, which you took over the rule of the country and where you delivered it. It was at 25% and you handed over to 33%. I'm talking about the complete register.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u358	Why for the complete, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u359	I'm talking about your own time of government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u360	I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u361	I can also refer you to the explanatory statement in the bill to clarify it. So ask a question, so you don't come here and say that you did everything perfectly, or that you did 60% of real estate, that from 35% today you officially went to 60% and we downloaded it 35%, but we're going to take it to two years from now to 90%. What's the result? The result is that we've been having years, accumulated problems in the register. It is a common finding of all Greek citizens. So, in livestock offices, a large number of cases are stacked, while at the same time legal appeals are increasing. I heard the rapporteur from the minor opposition, who said that he was given trial for the Athens Court of First Instance in 2025. This situation, with the mountain of loose ends, needs to change. So what were the options we had at the Department of Digital Governance? One option was the inertia, the maintenance of the present situation, to do nothing, that is, what was seen from the suggestions made by all the Members of the opposition. We didn't hear a proposal, a thought. For us, then, one option was to go to stagnation and inertia. The second option was occasionally, depending on what is happening, to make our speeches, a few small interventions, to resolve the current issues. And all this, of course, to let Greek society be diffuse, the thought was that the Land register was done to find work for the topographers, the scholars, to make the realisation, because we had 35% so far. If we take your own approach, leave things as they were, we need another fifty years to get the Stock Exchange to 100%. So they should make the realisation and naturally pay them the Greek taxpayer. This reasoning is unthinkable to be adopted by parties that have ruled the country and who want to have a role in the Greek Parliament. The third option, which we chose together with the Minister, Mr Pierrakis, was to make a basic and great section. So what were you trying to do in your political speech to say that you have adopted this incision? You're referring to partial termination. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I am going to need some time, Mr President, to help both Critical Opposition and Members. I have the relevant provision - I will be tabling it in the Minutes afterwards - with which, in 2013, the partial closure was legislated. The Civic Opposition came then, SYRIZA, when he was in the country's rule, and adopted the partial closure. It was adopted in the conventions, which were signed for the realisation of property 16. And we come and leap forward and make the closure where the procedures can really be adopted and the procedures right. Who led us there? The statistics led us. The experience of all the previous years has led us to show us that 98% of the cases that were going to be recorded could easily proceed with the registration of rights. 2% was where there were problems. One clarification, please. It has been mentioned by many MPs from the Opposition 55% and 45% that no rights have been collected. So I say to you: 55% is the collection of rights. So, that's where they have rights. The rest of you say, 45% is where they didn't show up and they didn't say. So, with this reason you are saying this: we should continue to leave the ceremonies. 98% is in this 55% and there's the rest of 2%. 45% is a collection of statements. You're talking about other things. Please look at them and be informed of them, but they are not appropriate. Do not manipulate and guide you. So it was the statistic that forced us to make this great incision and this great change, which you did not question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u362	There are no objections in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u363	I challenge you again and tell you to exercise parliamentary control. Come and ask, what has happened to the previous real estate records, with the partial closure, with the real estate units that you adopted. So we see, we analyse the data as it requires, we analyse the data set and we proceed to the next stage. And what's our philosophy? We said so at the previous meeting, and the Minister said so. It's simplicity, acceleration, security. How do we achieve this goal? They have described the steps that are part of the bill, this grouping has taken place. So I tell you very briefly, Step one: Acceleration of ownership. We are moving on very quickly and we are going through the documents as far as the declarations of rights are concerned. The citizens will therefore have access to all information in this way. Secondly, we are organizing three-member committees within the register which will see the requests for correction or, to say so simply, to understand the world, the objections, the appeals of the citizens - I do not know how else to describe it - where they can resolve any disagreements or different approaches. This is so that people do not have to resort to justice. The third step we are taking is compulsory mediation because we want those who have another approach to their rights to go to specialists. Yes, he's going to be a body of specialists for the Stock Exchange. There's an authorized provision within the law. Tell them what legislation is, because you know that legislation is both technical and legal, and it is difficult, and it requires a combination of knowledge about these items, to get them to really give what is happening and to what extent they can get to claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u364	Finish, Minister, because you've been in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u365	I shall conclude, Mr President. What is the practice that has been followed so far, which the Civic Opposition wants us to continue for Greek citizens? To end up in a case, we should get to the Arena Ice. This is what it means from time to cost to the average Greek citizen. We are also establishing the Rules of Procedure, which the Union of Judges and Prosecutors confirmed to us. In their communication 15 days ago they also welcomed and asked for this provision. I say to you this: there will be specific seminars for the original judges on this subject. The know-how they will acquire will be able to exploit it to the next degree in the year. Mr President, I will be done very soon. Also to correct inaccurate first registrations, we make an important adjustment. What is this important arrangement? So far, the express agreement was required - the Greek State's commitment. We now give the possibility within 60 days, if the Greek State does not respond, to register the right to the person who owns it. And we're doing another big intervention. We give a time and a half from now, we are giving an extension from now on until 31 January 2022, those who have inaccurate first registrations to come and correct them. And we are now saying this here to inform all Greek citizens who have problems with the Land register. How many is this provision involved? Of a total of forty million rights, nearly thirty-nine million eight hundred thousand are involved. It is not only about a hundred and fourteen thousand rights that have become definitive registration in 2018 on SYRIZA governance. A word for the accredited engineer. All countries have the institution of accredited engineers, we also have it. There will be a correction in Article 25 to clarify that topographers of technical education, who have graduated from TEIs, will be able to practice their profession and will not lose one of their rights, as they have done so far. The accredited engineer is a verifier. I shall conclude, Mr President. The Minister spoke about the electronic property file and analysed it very much. To help the body solve the thousands of outstanding cases, we proceed to programme contracts with the Technical Chamber, to draw up a scientific skilled human resources from the Technical Chamber of the country and with the lawyers. I will therefore inform you that the first programming contract has been signed with the Association of Thessaloniki and that the signing of a programme contract with the Athens Bar Association and the Piraeus Bar Association proceeds in the next few days. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek society needs and needs a genuinely developmental tool, which will boost the real estate market in our country, attract investment, help us to take steps ahead of the benchmarks by the global institutions, so it will help us to get closer to recovery and development, which we so much need. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u368	The Minister has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. We accept the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister, George Stylos, and we accept and vote for Mr Ypsilant, Papa, Konsola and Mrs Iatridis as regards the addition of the Dodecanese with the exception of the islands in force after the words 'the islands of Kythera, Antikythera in the second paragraph of Article 62 of Law 998/1979'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, I request the floor. I would like to ask Mr Pierracakis a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u372	You have the floor, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u373	Mr Pierracakis, do you know what law this amendment refers to? Law 998 is not your responsibility. Right now you're going to accept an amendment to the basic forest law while you're a Minister of Digital Governance? I'm sorry, but has it been understood what we're talking about right now? The Minister for the Environment and Energy was here. It's not within your department's competence. It is about forest law, Law 998, and indeed about the presumption of public ownership. This is also a point of order. We have not discussed this with colleagues either. I don't know if you've understood exactly what's going on. We are also surprised about this procedure and I have taken the floor. I think it is a serious matter that should not go through this way. I don't know if he got into the parliamentary debate. It is about the presumption of ownership we discussed last week in another forest law bill. We'll have to talk about it. I don't know, Mr. President. I put it as a question, Mr. Pierracakis. There is one issue that needs to be resolved and it is serious. You will also be contacted by the Bureau of Parliament on your procedural and legal powers. From there, and then I would like my third place as a parliament after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u375	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I should like to reply to Mr Famello. We have the agreement of the Minister responsible and the information we have is that only we can accept it because it is our bill. It is a parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u377	He didn't say. The Minister was here. You're going through a change in public ownership.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u378	You've been placed. Please don't interrupt. Mr Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr. Yiannis Andrianos and Mr. Kalamatianos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u379	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, at a definitive and irreversible stage of integration, a great deal of looseness has been introduced by the adoption of this bill that has been stirring up for decades the state machine, the citizens and the related professional sectors. The Greek Land register is digitised and with a click it becomes accessible from the computer of our home and office. An entity that has over time enlisted citizens in a maze of bureaucracy is now turning into a development tool, a factor in attracting investment that is citizen-friendly and useful to all the professionals involved. The simplification and digitisation of procedures to be offered by the Greek Stock Exchange to the citizens, as well as the reorganisation of the organisation, in order to provide better quality services, will speed up the acquisition in the pending areas. It is clear that with the reforms introduced by this bill on the functioning of a Land register, the citizen will be able to access any real estate information simply with the TAXIS codes. It is enough to think, especially in the midst of pandemic, how difficult to unfeasible many times it has been to look at the books of the land registers and even to lack a simple certificate. Now quickly, economically and effectively, registering acts and obtaining certificates will be carried out through the upgraded electronic applications and services of the Register. In order to understand the importance of introducing regulations in the resolution of chronic pathogens in the Greek Land register, one of the many subordinated census offices and mortgages across the territory has to visit. Amongst these, the Katerini Land Office, for which, in constant cooperation with the Caterina Bar Association, we have strived to improve its operation, since it falls far short of the staff required, to carry out all this massive workload. In this way, therefore, while innumerable acts remain unchanged to date, and for a simple transcription one has to wait for up to two years, the environment is now finally changing for everyone's benefit. Citizens and professionals, lawyers, engineers, notaries and judges will have access free and distance to the electronic services of the Register, i.e. the possibility of obtaining certificates from distances - such as real estate sheets and charts, weight certificates and others - but also to the possibility of applying for registration of acts such as contracts, actions, legal decisions, etc. Another section, ladies and gentlemen, which introduces this bill, is the electronic property transfer file. It is a common secret that the sale of a property only obstacles and stumbling blocks is causing interested parties to act as a brake on investment opportunities. The process of collecting seventeen different certificates from different public services in itself seems to be an unthinkable mountain, which will take days to climb the potential seller. Since September, therefore, several supporting documents, certificates and documents required today for a transfer of real estate from all the stakeholders will be collected electronically and entered in the file of the property to be transferred. The electronic collection of documents and certificates shall be carried out by the notary authorised by the Contracting Parties. We improve the investment climate, reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and also upgrade public services. To understand the size of the reform introduced by this bill, it is worth mentioning one of the statistics on the property market before the pandemic. In 2019, to complete forty - two thousand real estate transfers, over three hundred thousand tax visits were required throughout the country alone. If we add to these numbers and visits to many other public services, let us consider the narcotic environment in which an investor is called upon to contribute his capital. Instead, in September, with only nine digital steps, the sale of a property will have been successfully completed. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of the digital age are many and our country now responds to them not only with efficiency, but often with innovation and boldness. The Department of Digital Governance implements a large-scale transformation of the state machine that doesn't remind almost anything public, as we received it two years ago. We will continue with the same reformist momentum and vision commitment to a successful, flexible and modern state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u380	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, and especially for keeping time. Mr.Ioannis Andrianos of New Democracy has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Dionyssis Kalamatianos from SYRIZA will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is another tangible demonstration of the government's will and effectiveness in simplifying procedures, dealing with bureaucracy, improving the quality and range of services provided by public bodies. It is also of special importance that the main object of the draft is the National Stock Exchange, a tool that is absolutely essential to modernise the right to property and the multi-faceted development of the country and, at the same time, a procedural Odyssey with many delays and often bureaucratic adventures for owners. It is therefore particularly important that the government with comparable and targeted measures seeks to speed up the start-up of the Stock Exchange in the areas pending the completion of the realisation function, such as regions and Argolida, but also to speed up and facilitate the process both for the vast majority of cases where there are no objections and for the rapid and fair resolution of disputes. It is not by chance that the pending completion of the Stock Exchange, but also the delay in the administration of justice and final dispute resolution, are the key areas that undermine the competitiveness of the Greek economy and also the attractiveness of the domestic and foreign investors who, of course, see these problems do not come to invest their money. And that should be stressed every time. In other words, the problem of the competitiveness of Greece lies mainly in clarity and certainty as to the use of land and speed of justice. These deficits are covered by the current government consistently, speedly and efficiently by creating the prerequisites for dynamic and sustainable development day after day. Moreover, a characteristic example of the importance of the Library is the issue of Argolida, the transcription of the operation of the extension of the plan of the Argols to the southern part of the city on the electronic base of the National Register, an important project that is necessary for the development of Argols and especially the southern part of the city. In order to award the final property to the citizens of Argos and hence also to be able to draw up legal acts such as contracts and pre-contracts, but also to issue building permits for their properties, the relevant procedure needs to be completed immediately, quickly. And here I would like to stress and thank Minister Pierracakis and George Stylos because we had a meeting at the Ministry on this matter, in order to stimulate the completion of the procedures to complete this work and, of course, in cooperation with the Director of the Stock Exchange, Stefanos Kotsolis. Therefore, any initiative to improve and speed up the procedures for starting the correction of data and for resolving disputes, for better access to electronic property transfer services by citizens and professionals, to encourage mediation that saves time and money for both individuals and the State, for the electronic transfer file that will substantially facilitate the real estate transfer process and ensure the suitability of the Stock Exchange to human, material and intangible resources, is a profound and substantial reform with a clear positive sign, a positive result. As well as tangible evidence of the will and effectiveness of the government's digital transition strategy are the new digital services included in this bill and enrich the gov.gr patronage by substantially simplifying the daily lives of citizens and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the symbolisation of the register is intense. They are many Greeks and many Greeks to whom they relate. A bureaucratic process, however, which we will willingly accept, despite the suffering, because we believe that it is an absolutely necessary safeguard for the property and, on the one hand, it is a one-off procedure with which we will now enjoy the positive results as data. That is why the Government's initiative to improve this process by simplifying and speeding it up, but also substantially enriching its services for citizens, underlines the most important feature of the overall strategy for the digital transition, that the results of these individual actions that are part of this wider and comprehensive strategic planning will be permanently, that the digital state which is consistently built by the Government of Nea Democrat Republic and Kyriakos Mitsotakis marks a change in the effectiveness of the state machine, for the liberation of the creative forces of our society, for the daily life of the citizen, for the enhancement of the services that Greeks and Greeks require in education, health, security, social assistance, in every area of public action. Day after day Greece changes for the best. Day after day, the state from a citizen's self-reporting power becomes his own and fellow citizen. The amendments tabled and presented by the Ministers and by the Ministry of Finance on the new arrangements for debts, of course, were made in the pandemic and the insurance contributions, but also by the Ministry of Interior for the cleaning staff of the school units. The New Democracy Government is responsible and serious for progressing tomorrow, and we are all obliged to put back on this great effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr. Adriane. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor from SYRIZA, and then Mr Aylonite will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Since this morning, I have been following the ministers and the Undersecretaries who come here and my conviction is intensified that they have no contact with the world, with the citizens, have no connection with their needs and concerns. Do you really think that citizens are pleased with the mockery you have made with the minimum wage when you were electionfully saying and committing that you would increase the minimum wage for each development unit? This year and next year, for 2021 and 2022, you think we will have 3% and 4% growth. Is that an increase in the minimum wage? No way. Give them a cookie, 50 minutes a day or a bottle of water. But you're counting on it, and you're saying we're going to have growth. Don't you think? Where's the raise? And not for this year, for time, though, we will see. Do you think borrowers and debtors are happy with the new bankruptcy law that will lead them to loss of all their assets, even of their first residence? Do you think those small and medium-sized people who see billions go through are happy and they're not getting any reinforcement and if they haven't shut down soon, they're going to put a lock on their business? Do you think they're happy for the workers who work two hours longer and have no protection - have you reduced it, too - from dismissal and work for cheap overtime? Do you think they're happy to have twenty thousand or more children who, on the minimum basis of introduction, stay out of public universities with the legislature you've done? Do you think the closure of university departments creates euphoria and joy to the inhabitants of the areas they see leaving the academic map? Do you think the citizens are happy that the Prime Minister has announced the closure of nursing units before the pandemic is even over? And now I come to the bill. The register is indeed a crucial institution, an institution of particular importance, on the one hand, because it ensures the publicity of the facts and other written rights, but, on the other hand, because it is an essential tool for the conduct of development policies. Is that necessary? Of course it is. Does it have to be completed? Of course it must be completed, so SYRIZA's government with Law 4512/2018 upgraded and shielded the Land register, created the legal person governed by public law under the name "National Land Register" and incorporated it into the new mortgage system. And the results were positive. Certification from 25% went to 60%. But you, in this bill, despise the importance of the ownership process for safe first-time records and put in danger the functioning of the National Stock Exchange. You risk its credibility and its consequences for trade and legal certainty. You do not treat any of the existing and known pathogens. On the contrary, you are attempting to further shorten the process of realisation. Try to close already from the stage of the suspension of the veterinary records, tables and charts immediately after the collection and processing of the records and the training of the veterinary charts. You do this without any control of the quality and correctness of the real estate data. You care about how the National Register will work without completing the verification of the correctness of this data. You are also concerned about the consequences that this will have for the public disclosure of rights and other registered rights and overall for the security of trade. That's what we're talking about right now. Most of the country's activities are pending both territorially and in numbers of rights. What needs to be done is to aim at greater involvement of owners, to fill in the vacancy gaps. You must defend the credibility of the register, which is based on its publication. You must extend for the correction of errors in order to restore the necessary completion. The effort must be intensified now, just before the end, and not abandoned. Instead of all this, you decide to leave it incomplete. I heard you, Minister. You said that 98% of real estate cannot and should not delay the remaining 2% presenting a subject. But this is a mistaken approach. Objections and objections to purely urban areas were over 5%. In semi-government and rural more than 15%. This is because the spatial objections are influenced by more than one adjacent property. Are you aware that from 30% of the landlords who have not come to date because of the forest maps that have not been completed, we are expecting the statement from the Forest Directorate, because of the call for objections, due to the submission of a number of new property declarations, are they likely to affect rights that are currently considered valid? Have you considered that due to the threatened delay in the development of the objections to the landlord's leaf owners, in all legal, clear, identifiable, with a documented right, can be held hostage by malicious neighbouring owners? On the other hand, markets will continue to be as they are today. They'll need lawyers, they'll need engineers to be considered as valid rights that are considered valid with the state seal. This will be because there will be uncertainty as uncertainties and opposing views can bring about significant changes. I cannot fail to point out that the government is now in a hurry and has been speeding up the programme by two years, when it has allowed it to pass unrealistic a year ago. You have slowed down bringing the famous article to address the objections and left tens of thousands of objections to it by the committees. Now, of course, you're in a hurry and you're in a hurry. In conclusion, Mr President, I will repeat that in this bill you are not making any major reform. What you are actually doing is covering up a problem and putting millions of rights in danger. You are not strengthening trade security and you are substantially affecting the country's development path. You don't want the register to work properly, do you? Do you want there to be grey belts? But this is what you know that it does not fit into a European rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u384	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Aylonite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u385	He's not here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u386	Mrs. Theophist Perka will speak at the end. Mr Constantinidis Efstathos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u387	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, "It will be like having a register, but we will not have" the SYRIZA rapporteur prophesied, trying to explain it at first, even a rejection from the party of a bill that clearly gives solutions to problems and makes people's lives better. No, ladies and gentlemen, the acceding Minister did not find the wheel with the legislative initiative under discussion, simply removes the obstacles from his face and lets him run. And yes, reasoning is so simple that one wonders how we hadn't thought about it in the first place. What's the problem? That today the acquisition process presupposes many and time-consuming stages and the liquidation of all the disputed property or rights in order to issue the authentication instrument and to make the entries in the stock registers. What's the idea? That 2%, even 10% in opposition, of the rights to be prevented from blocking the procedure for the remaining 98%, even 90% of the property of a region that has no loose ends. This causes great delays and costs to citizens and is a development barrier to the country. What is the solution proposed? Following the submission of the rights in writing and the suspension of applications for correction, examine the obvious and non-false errors, reform the records and charts on the basis of them, and, in cases where there is still a dispute, the difference should be transmitted to the resolution committees without preventing the completion of census. What's the result? Acceleration and simplification of procedures. Thus, interested citizens and professionals, lawyers, engineers will have direct and free access to the electronic services of the Stock Exchange, i.e. the remote receipt of certificates and the submission of applications for registration of transactions. In addition, in the light of all the outstanding doubts on land registers, each interested party will be able to know whether a property is claimed and how well the dispute is founded. What other facilities are provided in the draft law? First of all, the extension by one year to the deadline for correcting incorrect initial records. This is an absolutely necessary arrangement for citizens to correct any errors, even in view of the serious consequences of the law. The ability to correct errors in the mediation process. The institution of the cemetery and the further training of the veterinary judges. The reversal of the burden of the objections in the correction of manifest errors in the rights of an unknown owner in the public sector, and even in a tight period of sixty days from the performance of the relevant application. After the expiry of the deadline, under the conditions of the law, the public consent will be presumed and the head of the real estate office should make the correction. This development strengthens the responsibility of the state toward the citizen and will prevent many appeals to justice. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the introduced arrangements are the distillate of the experience gained from the malfunctions of the real estate system, which they face useful and effective and will bring more quickly and closer to the citizen the fruits of this huge project called the Greek Land register. We are now going to the other innovation, to the electronic property file, a tool that will enable a property to be transferred simply and quickly from the notary office without the parties being forced to move and search for certificates. The interoperability of the public registers of seventeen certificates will be granted electronically, which will facilitate and greatly speed up the process. Furthermore, the Register is also reinforced by the arrangements for the conclusion of cooperation with the TEI and the establishment of a Register of Accredited Engineers. Who benefit from all this? The citizens and the country as a whole. The results are particularly beneficial: Time and resources savings. Security in trade. Upgrade the country to international rankings. Create an even more hospitable environment for investment and jobs. However, let us also see the new services in the digital state, the'myAuto' and 'Audit-Car' services, which will be available to vehicle owners and to audit services for each vehicle, for registration, for the payment of fees, the period of insurance cover, the place of immobilisation and the entry into the register of stolen vehicles. The "myPhoto" service for e-commerce to public bodies for the purpose of handling a case, with the necessary physical guarantees from certified photographers and of course only with the consent of the citizen concerned. Finally, the legislative recognition of the digitalised private signature made by the citizens of the JEPs on a tablet such as they do in the bank or in a private business. They are really fresh applications that will add digits to the country's digital map, the jump we have achieved from 8.8 million electronic transactions in 2018 to 300 million expected this year by the end of the year. However, the forecasts for the National Centre for Audiovisual Media are also important in view of the high growth shown by the number of new producers in our country, as a result of the changes that the current government has made to the institutional framework. With the imported improvements Greece will become even more hospitable destination for film and other productions, which, apart from direct financial results, strengthen the country's international image and our tourist and investment signal. I have started, ladies and gentlemen, with the prophecy of my colleague, to conclude with one of my own, that if SYRIZA does not correct the manifestly false tactics of a sterile confrontation, as he does today, at a time when for the first time our country can and will look optimisticly at the future, it will continue for a long time to be in opposition, but perhaps not the officer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u388	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an ambitious draft law aimed, according to the Government, at speeding up, simplifying and safeguarding the functioning of the Greek register. However, the transfer of ownership power to the Ministry of Digital Governance itself is accompanied by the need to deal with complex legal and technical issues arising in the process of realisation, for which it cannot have the corresponding capabilities, but also with the number of existing assets. There is a rush in the way the provisions of the bill are put in place, which does not guarantee effective and without problems for citizens in practice, as well as in achieving the ambitious objective, for 90% of the realisation in two years. The land register, a truly top reform that has been launched since the 1990s by the government at the time of PASOK, has indeed been delayed. A lot has been said, criticism is easy. But the self-criticism is also needed, something that today's Census, and previous government is now systematically ignoring. The works of all of us are well known. Our party has work and reforms to show. Others must answer for their own work, exactly what they are. We all understand the pressure on the absorption of the recovery fund. It is in the government's general philosophy that the logic of rapid absorption of resources. However, we are talking about the use of resources that will support growth in the long term and give added value, without, of course, ignoring the time at which these must be done, but also the cost. A convincing answer must also be given because from 90 million in 2016 the digitalisation of archives, of the three hundred ninety mortgages for the national register, is currently budgeted at EUR 242 million. Our rapporteur from the Change Movement, Ms. Likolis, analysed in detail the individual provisions of the bill. I would like to focus on a number of points: how is it possible in practice to accelerate and secure rights for citizens, when decisions by the competent committees have not been taken before dispute resolution is resolved, and when Article 3 of the bill provides that the areas in possession are closed without the objection procedures being completed? Where the possibility of issuing an inter-certification instrument at a point in time prior to the completion of the procedure for examining the applications for the correction referred to in Article 7A is authorised? How can security be guaranteed for citizens when they do not complete their realisation? When has the forest maps not been corrected and posted? When is the citizens' review not completed? The problems are well known, and my compatriot Mr. Stylis knows them, the huge problems of the suspension of forest maps, the advancement of the logbook and our region, Arta, with different and opposite data, using data from different periods, such as aerial photographs, and no correlation between the two processes. As a result of the unbelievable suffering for the citizens. This chaos must be brought into order and solutions which, first of all, will not be inconvenienced and secondly, will not be burdened by our already weakened, fellow citizens of property, from the far-reaching crisis. There are also no basic problems with regard to the ownership status of thousands of citizens, with the risk of creating additional complications and insecurity in trade. It is possible that citizens will be forced to reclaim rights in courtrooms, at cost and timely procedures. How can the procedures be accelerated, when the compulsory institution of mediation is introduced, in cases of actions to correct first registrations of property rights, for which cases are pending, but before the committees referred to in Article 7a of Law 2308/1995? With regard to the procedure laid down in Article 13 and the possibility of applying to immovable property which appear to be an unknown owner, there are, in principle, exceptional suffocative periods for the State to respond to the claimants of those property. The burden of proving ownership of a property is shifted to the Greek State. It could also be positive, but the necessary guarantees are lacking in this process, and it is a problem that we have said before, namely non-completion and suspension of forest maps. That is why we tabled an amendment to ensure that the legitimate rights of both citizens and the Greek public are equally guaranteed. I will not go into detail, but the amendment is very detailed and provides for a transparent process, which is a safety net for all parties, which will cost the citizen less than the present procedure by appealing to the courts, but also for more security than is laid down in Article 13. That is why we invite you to accept it. In Article 24, I heard Minister Stylion say that the omission for the specialities of the graduate engineers TE, Geo-informatics and Topography will be corrected from the possibility of being accredited as an engineering property register. Those specialities actually provide services relating to the activity of real estate, so they can and must be assessed accordingly for that accreditation on the basis of their professional rights. Article 29, concerning the electronic property file, is a positive provision. However, it is necessary to clearly define the certificates needed and to reduce the supporting documents to be presented in order to make practical use of them. Finally, as far as the administration of the real estate offices is concerned, I would like to refer to another amendment that we have tabled, and ask you to accept it. It concerns the filling of these posts by the relevant mortgage guardians of special unpaid mortgages. Their contribution with their experience in the difficult work of real estate offices is given. In relation to the provisions on new digital services. It is in the direction of modernising public administration and operation and upgrading the quality of the services provided to citizens. However, there are also the issues that have already been mentioned regarding internet usage and technology. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I will make a reference to the amendments. The introduction of amendments on your part, like the previous ones from you, from the SYRIZA, with the many articles, which are voted on together, for each amendment and without debate, is indeed the culmination of poor legislation. For the amendment of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in relation to the resources for the Civil Aviation Service, resources available from 2016 to 2019, there is already a delay in covering outstanding liabilities of the service. These resources are needed, and we also agree with the extension of the validity of the joint and study diplomas. But at some point the process of the Presidential Decree and the award of new diplomas must be completed. In conclusion, Minister, and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - I would like to stress that, apart from your intention to promote and complete this great project for our country, the register, the logic of accelerating the use of resources is accompanied by gaps in the functioning of the system and in the future by a number of problems for citizens. And these need to be dealt with in this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Neocles Cretan of the New Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the property register will be an important event for modern history as there will be a full record of the property of our fellow citizens and of the Greek public. During the registrations, problems arose that stem from the establishment of the state after the Greek revolution of 1821. Also, during the registrations we had and we have a lasting dialectic among the owners, as you know, land areas and the Greek public. This dialogue with the end of realisation will be completed in the most equitable way. But I would like to stress an issue that remains unresolved. It's the one of the national lands. It is a complex problem that touches on the establishment of the Greek state, on the demands of the protagonists of the struggle to enjoy much of the land, on the involvement of the Ottoman law with the Bavarian tax system, on the successive territorial incorporations up to the end of the Balkan wars, on the effort of the state to distribute the large parcels to coastlines and on the resistance that they found from the great interests. Therefore, all this has led to a situation in which, since 1880, normal transfer of property rights or of sale, construction works or farm-owned farms have been carried out, to tax the State in accordance with the provisions in force at times of the year on the list of owners by effectively recognising them as the legal holders of the respective land or plots. A characteristic example, for this reason I mention, is the area of Aphaea - Cretan Skala Laconia of the Municipality of Eurota, where after the registration of the property and the completion of the third phase of the National Stock Exchange, our fellow citizens face serious problems in questioning their property. In this case, if any,...(not heard because of a bad connection) will be achieved if and if legal documents prove the acquisition of the property through the general records of the State. Another example of a problem in our region with regard to property regimes is Layios Lakonia, which emerged in 2004 at the beginning of real estate, and since then it is a questionable point for the whole region. In fact, the local authority's secondary body considered that the rights...(not heard because of poor connection) but also by other owners who are not related at all to the wider area. So the principle of disagreement on Laio is lost in time. The inability to resolve the issue continues in the present and the need to resolve it through the legislative procedure is a constant demand from the layers who are on the ground hanged. In the direction of resolving the property problem, the committee of the people of Layou has submitted to each of the stakeholders the opinion of the peer professor of the Law School of Law of the Library, Mr Douris, which highlights in an analysis of more than thirty pages the possibility of resolving the issue through the legislative process. So the legislative arrangement in the case of Layu is the mile that will lead to an exit from the labyrinth to which our fellow citizens have been caught. Of course, I am referring to this because the above cases are not the only ones in the country. But given that the government is now starting to adopt laws and rules of proper treatment of similar problems, especially through this bill, I believe that the possibility will be soon after all the relevant cases have been recorded in legislation...(not heard because of a bad connection) interventions. In conclusion, this draft law creates the conditions so that the register can be finalised two years earlier than the planned schedule by making available information on the identity of a property to any interested party. The transfer of ownership to the digital age also creates conditions for transparency of accountability and growth. The extension by one year of the possibility of correcting incorrections of the first real estate records as it allows for the correction of all errors by extrajudicial or judicial means, whether they relate to immovable property of a known or unknown owner, was absolutely necessary. The possibility of concluding programming contracts with the TEI to provide support technical services to the organisation is certain to help to close the procedures more quickly. The creation of the register of accredited engineers to support the information of the veterinary charts is important. I would like to point out here that we need to rethink the possibility of involving the technical training topographers who have so far had the right to participate. I think we'll see very well. The provision of a second chance for the unpaid mortgage guards and employees of the paid mortgages to be transferred to the institution...(not heard because of a bad connection). The benefits that are expected to arise with the proposed draft law are concise: faster completion of the Stock Exchange, better service for the citizens by accessing the electronic service, increasing the country to the World Bank's doing business ranking, attracting investment, development and extroversion, rapid resolution of cases where there is a consensus of the parties. This bill serves the impetus of Greece ahead. It makes her more attractive. It creates conditions for growth, transparency and development. We must, I think, all vote on it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. The Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor for some clarification of his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. I refer to the parliamentary amendment tabled by Members of the New Democracy Rhodes under number 1043/28, which we are now voting on today. It is very important and I believe that all the Members of the Greek Parliament should support it. I really am surprised that such concerns have arisen, particularly from the SYRIZA side of course his representative. We are doing something here that solves a huge problem for thousands of our fellow citizens who were right and had to be solved. What do the Dodecanese MPs of the New Democracy propose to legislate? The integration of the Dodecanese other than the islands in which the veterinary regulation applies, such as Rhodes, Kos and some municipal units of Leros, into Article 62 of Law 998/1979. What does this article say? It refers to areas that are not satellites, that is, were not conquered by the Ottoman conqueror by the spear and sword. In these areas, such as the Cyclades, such as Crete, such as Mani, such as the Ionian Islands, the presumption of ownership of the public, which is determined by the forest character of the land, does not apply. Here we come for the islands of the Dodecanese, but I repeat these islands where the veterinary regulation applies to modifying this Article 62, this very well-known article and incorporating these areas into this provision. I think it gives a very big solution to the property regime. Some concerns were raised as to whether paragraph 8a of the law we spent a few days ago, on 23 July, as Ministry of the Environment and Energy, also applies to those regions of the Dodecanese which now come and fall under Article 62 of Law 998/1979. I read in particular. In this 8a we are giving the opportunity to set up the property councils for specific areas mentioned. But there is paragraph 6, which states ‘by joint decision referred to in paragraph 4, more ownership councils may be established and the seat and region of each of the established councils shall be determined’. So, ladies and gentlemen, with the provision and provision of the law and of Article 8A and paragraph 6, we are able to set up property councils for these islands which are not included in Article 62 of Law 998 and which are now added and which, by name, we have established that forest ownership councils will be set up. Therefore, I do not understand why this thought and your reaction exist. In political terms you should say whether or not you agree with the substance of the provision that we are promoting. Do you want to give a solution to the thousands of citizens of the Dodecanese or do you not want to? It's a simple answer. Yes or no? If it is yes, you agree, if it is no, tell our fellow citizens. However, and in order not to give you any opportunity to disagree with a very fair provision in our opinion, the Minister responsible for accepting the parliamentary amendment will proceed to a legal correction in order to do so exactly the way you want it, although it is clear. We shall put in the amendment we tabled in Article 8a even this provision, to include in name the areas now covered by Article 62. I do not think you will now have any reactions or thoughts on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u394	If you want a clarification, Minister, let me say this. The militant presumption in favour of the public is abolished and the burden of proof now goes to the public against the title, whether it is a derivative that is used. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u395	That's right. As is true of all the areas referred to in Article 62 which are not considered satellites.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u396	Good. She's positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u398	If you want any clarification from the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u399	Look, if you'll excuse me, it's just a little hard to put us even as a question why, by closing his position, Mr. Skrekas referred to Mr. Pierracakis' legislature. You can therefore understand that we cannot assume what we will add because I did not ask for something about Article 62, as you mentioned, and it is in the Minutes, Mr Screka. So it raises a question to me: What exactly did you say and what will Mr Pierracakis change? I will ask you the questions I would ask you in your place to that point because it concerns Mr Pierrakakis as to whether he will bring Legislative and whether we will be placed on a different issue. Because I raised a number of issues with Mr Pierracakis when you were gone, I have to say that although you are here and you cover politically the acceptance of the amendment, Mr Pierracakis, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, you will be responsible for accepting it not at the end because you are typically the rapporteur and you understand it. Just for formal reasons, but also for politicians, you will have been co-administered, and so you will have the responsibility of this great change. Question: Last week we made a bill to which you brought us an amendment that changed all this for the other regions. I would like to clarify that, Mr President, because as a lawman you will understand what is happening now. There are two articles in the original forestry law dealing with the issues of public ownership. Article 62 which defines which areas the presumption of ownership and Article 10 does not apply to which areas the State does not display property rights, i.e. it does not follow through to claim, even though it does not have the presumption of ownership. With the last week's amendment - and please excuse me for the legal removal, I explain it a little bit more simply - you have introduced all the areas - so to speak - 62 and 10. And now you come and enter the Dodecanese region at 62. And so at the same time, not just does the presumption of ownership apply, but the public will not display ownership rights, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u400	But there were no public land on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u401	Allow me, Mr President. So the question arises, after you follow a logical line in your mind, is why is the rest of the satellite islands not in the amendment? What are we going to respond to the rest of the satellite islands, if you say you're doing something terrible for the inhabitants of the Dodecanese? It is a question, because you say that you solve a problem based on a historical development of titles - you say about public land - but we know in Greek history that there are other regions. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Why do you say we answer, but the questions are to the Minister, not to the opposition. Since you have had a working party to solve the issues of forest legislation on the islands, especially and in the rest of Greece, why last week did you have an amendment to Article 62, did you not have it in you? What happened all of a sudden? Is there a recommendation from the Committee on Sciences and Technocrats, for example, to suggest it or are you suddenly taking it out? Because you didn't have it last week. All this, Mr Pierrakakis and Mr Skreka, is what gives us real concerns and doubts about the moderation. In other words, with an amendment last week, you are intervening on a crucial issue, which is the presumption of public ownership for areas which had an exception from the presumption, and now you are entering into the exception from the presumption of ownership of the public and from the promotion of rights for a large area. Third question: All this without my chance of getting the least approach to what public rights are and what violations there are in the region. I guess you don't have any such evidence. So, Mr President, there are fundamental questions about the discrimination that you have entered the regions. I know from parliamentary control that there are questions from both SYRIZA Members and Members of the New Democracy, for example, about Samothraki. There were requests for Thassos. That's why I'm asking you. What, then, is an area excluded and not others? What domino is being created? In any case, Mr President, because I am not afraid and we are not afraid to tell our opinion, we consider this legislation so defective and insulting, both for the bill and for the Ministers as persons and for the Greek state and for the citizens who are concerned and so unscientificly for all what you are doing and have nothing to do with the European operation, which we are literally concerned about what is the responsibility of a minister now. Honestly, I can't tell you otherwise, and I'm telling you very seriously. The committees do not recommend it, they do not come, you make an amendment last week, and you do not put it, you put one area and other areas are reacting. Okay, to the citizen no longer can we talk logically after all that you're doing. We can't cover a conversation like this, Mr. Screka. It's the least problematic. I told Mr Pierracakis that it was also his responsibility. I told him before you came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u402	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u403	Finally, I did not hear this: do you agree or do you not agree with the provision? On the one hand, you say that the provision should not be passed because it is rough and, on the other hand, you say that there are other areas that have to be treated as such. So you're saying we're finally going to extend what we're doing. You come here and say that we need to extend it to other areas. Let me ask you this: firstly, the public's rights are expressed in the way provided for by our legal culture and the legislative framework that we have and nothing changes in this regard, of course, and the public, since it has rights, but it must prove it and not come to these areas to prove its own law. It should therefore also be demonstrated that the public has these areas legally. That is what we are voting on today. The vote of Members, ladies and gentlemen, I think you all know that she is individual. So each Member is responsible for what he introduces for discussion, for voting on and finally for voting or for not voting on it. Therefore, the Members of the Greek Parliament will come and decide whether or not they support this amendment, as they will come and decide and support the entire bill. There is no need for attempting to intimidate or terrorism that you are trying to achieve in this Chamber to the Members. Here Members will take the decision that they believe is fair to society and to the public interest. And this provision we are bringing here, ladies and gentlemen, is in favour of the public interest and of those of our fellow citizens who naturally hold legitimate titles in those areas where they are part of the same context as Crete, Mani, Ionians and Cyclades. And the question is: Do you agree or do you not agree? I ask you: does the Dodecanese Members of your Party agree or do they not agree with this provision? You didn't tell us and I don't hear you answer. I think that proves the correctness of what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u404	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u405	We have a legislative improvement in this parliamentary amendment. The second subparagraph of Article 8A of Law 998/1979 shall read as follows: ‘For the application of the first subparagraph, Article 8A of Law 998/1979 shall apply and on these matters a property council set up pursuant to paragraph 6 of that Article’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs. Theophist Perka of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much. First of all, let's say we have a bad legacy all the time. We have three times the number of articles in relation to the original bill, and even in newly adopted bills. For example, the education bill was only passed yesterday. The TEF is using it for any disease. You know, his role is different and I've said it several times. He's the state's technical advisor. Nor does it have any technical services to support all that they're supposed to assign. And of course, also the UN cable gifts to companies with projects, although they were licensed to build on their own underwater connections. And the grand-educational gifts, since they give their debts to university institutions. All this comes to be discussed. In any case, we're tired of saying that. I'm very disappointed. Democracy, in fact, cannot work this way. It's interesting to hear the opposition. Anyway. A pretext was made for short consultation, around other bills, stressful hearings, but also with the misleading title on speeding up, simplifying, coordinating the register. None of this is accomplished. This is probably a counter-reform and not a reform, which takes us backwards again. For some time now, the register has been roaming between ministries to finally end up with the Ministry of Digital Governance. But here, we are dealing with a wider spatial issue involving technical, environmental and legal issues. You take the digitisation, which is an important instrument, of course, but a tool - and you put it to a protagonist, ultimately degrading such a complex issue and we see that there is a fish silence in the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Justice which should have an important role. Mr Pierracakis refers to the register as an electronic process and even made a very unfortunate comparison with the gov.gr. I mean, if we waited for them to make the gov.gr system perfectly, we wouldn't have it today, etc. It's not the same thing. Before I refer to the individual provisions, I would also like to express my concern about the launching of the budget of the project to digitise the mortgage file approved by the Recovery Fund. What's changed? Of the 90 million anticipated in the study, we reached 240 million and shot. The provision, ladies and gentlemen, which is being introduced to close the realisation before the decisions of the Committees on Certification are adopted with the corresponding registration of outstanding cases, is a check to the Government for the eyes of the European Union and the World Bank that it supposedly completed a contractual obligation after two years of failure. Because we're not actually gonna have a land register. It's just publishing a real estate sheet... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). In essence, the core, the reason for the register and issues of legal certainty and transactions arise. Looks like that's none of your business at all. Surely his political decision to preach a complete work is a solution... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). The argument that the contested records only concern 2% and therefore the vast 98% majority cannot be delayed does not apply. It would be reasonable if it were true. The reality is, however, very different. Perhaps in urban areas a proportion - not 2% - will apply, of course, around 5%. However, there is no distinction between rural areas where the percentage is much higher and the dispute is mainly with the public. You are also deliberately ignoring 44% of the undeclared rights for which no attempt has been made to integrate them into the register. The government of SYRIZA provided for a termination of the property for which no objection had been lodged. You are now going to change everything while you have allowed time to pass, showing great flaw in voting on Article 6A to deal with objections. So, as in other legislations, you're changing SYRIZA settings without them even having been able to implement. In particular, with 6A there was an estimate that the number of applications for correction that would ultimately need to be examined by committees would be extremely small. This, of course, will never be known, because while there has not even been a suspension for the areas provided for in this legislation, this draft law is being transposed into the functioning of the register without answering all the problems of cemetery. Finally, the accreditation act will now also include property for which the realisation has not been effectively completed. I believe that those who have an interest in never completing the register have every reason to rejoice. But what, in my opinion, is very serious and is particularly concerned is that the bill opens a window to claim areas that appear as an unknown owner, with the extremely suffocating deadlines set to respond to the public's claims on property. To date, public consent was required, but in practice only in a few cases, which in principle required treatment. Now, however, the public has a deadline of two months to respond, which if it is left without a reply is automatically considered a consensus. In other words, the administration is taking enormous responsibility, while it is tragicly undersettled and indeed with engineers of specific qualifications and will of course be under great pressure for consensus in cases of great interest, even if it is not in response, with the risk of being awarded public land to individuals. He needs special attention. As far as the institution of accredited engineers is concerned, issues are, of course, raised of conflicts of interest and lack of independence according to the GSP and EMSDDA. There are at least two hundred or fifty organic positions uncovered. I also want to point out that it is very important to consider that it is not any engineer who can do the job, but specialties which have the power to draw up a topographic chart. Unlike other European countries where a very strict framework is laid down, you seem very loose in terms of conditionality, with funny accreditation and control methods. We're afraid we still have a wrestler. The Committee of Experts set up shall also have the same responsibilities as the legal address referred to in Article 16. At the same time, a dispute resolution committee is also set up. Committees and committees on any bill, ex-institutions without control, ideal for interest-sharing, only with a Minister's decision, therefore fully dependent. You have, in fact, changed the provision that this committee should be given a decisive role, after, of course, in a number of reactions to consultation, and that is the only way it has an opinion. We say that the Committee of Experts, in conjunction with the provisions on accredited engineers and the programming contract between the Greek Stock Exchange and the TEI, which we said is a disease, actually lead to the creation of a private property register, which will give access to the property regime and the current cases to private companies and major interests. This, together with the recent regulations on town and country planning, will create problems for small and vulnerable owners. Finally, with the proposed provisions in fact, we do not have an integrated register, but simply a formal closure of the process with thousands of technical and legal outstandings. Unfortunately, once again an important reform is abandoned, a programme that the SYRIZA government found at 25% and in two years' time took it to 60% and which would be completed today if you had continued what we started. You, however, take us back by undermining the authority of the Land register and leaving many loose ends at multiple costs for both the public and the public. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u408	Thank you very much, my colleague. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. Georgantas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think a meeting has been completed which has indeed given everyone the opportunity to express their views, their views and their objections. I, in conclusion, have three words that the Minister, Mr Pierracakis, has used in his speech: speeding up, facilitating, transparency. These three definitions are those that dominate the intervention we make in the register. In addition, the title of the legislation is "Modernisation of the National Stock Exchange". We come with concrete interventions and give impetus to cases that have long been aroused by Greek citizens, at the same time facilitating them and, of course, all this to be done under conditions of transparency and security of trade. It's a very simple thought. It's a very simple way. There is added value visible in our project. And yet, we have faced with many aspects of the Anti-Population, not just a refusal to support this legislation, but we have seen a toxicity in the way they opposed and imagined interests, and I do not know where, when we know very well that because of the existing system currently operating in the Land register, there are areas that are fully locked behind the process of completing the examination of objections, there are areas that are full of 2% or 3% of the property that employ the committees is the reason for committing and delaying the operation of the property office throughout the region. And we are now coming and we are going to find a solution to these areas which have no issue and, at the same time, to provide for the registration of these applications and of objections to land registers, so that there is transparency and security in trade, but also to give the right to transfer these property, in which there is a claim, knowledge and the responsibility of the buyer. What's simpler than that? What's more prudent? What is more positive for every single Greek citizen, but also for anyone who wants to invest? At the same time, we come with the electronic property file and create an application which will greatly facilitate the transfer of real estate, as it simplifys and digitizes the procedure for the collection of certificates and attestations and documents. The Opposition comes and says, "But what are you doing? This is there.’ There is, indeed, the possibility of some certificates and some assurances being able to collect them and take them from the appropriate offices. Here, we're doing something else if you don't understand. For all this information, without harming the citizen or the buyer, the opportunity to gather in the notary shall be the only one that will be required to be the natural presence of the buyer or seller in order to sign the contract. I think, gentlemen, that the great effort being made is a national effort. The country's digital transformation - I have said it from this Step - must not be the job of a government alone. It must be a vision for all Greeks, for all political forces. It's a national bet. Finally, you, in your attitude, will allow the government alone to plunge an effort, which is also an effort by the Ministry and the officials and worthy people, who are all of this effort of the management, but also by the public administration, who is working together and who has started and found a very good step in this great effort, because it is an effort that has to do with the future of the country. We would expect you to force us to run even faster, even more decisively. You are trying to find an opportunity to vote against each of our speeches. You know, we can move on by ourselves. However, we are calling on each time for positive cooperation and for proposals which could be exploited, but at the same time for support to be given to what you see as having a positive print in society, which is even reflected, which has been measured, is measurable. And only the hundred and fifty million electronic transactions that took place in this semester, in relation to the very small numbers of changes that had taken place in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, are a very great proof that the country has indeed taken huge steps. Everyone finds out. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. We have opened a stepping-up to the ministry and the government, and we are moving forward. Any one of you wants to follow us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now on our way to secondary education. I would ask you, Mr President, to be brief, because in addition to Mrs Adamopoulou, you have almost all covered your time beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u411	I talked for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u412	I see the times. In any case, we won't put a stitch now. Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. There are many amendments. I will repeat what I said in my prototype, that it is unacceptable that the government's tactics - I would say, on a regular basis - should bring nine substantial bills, regardless of the bill we are discussing today. He's taken the Rules of Procedure of the House and made him a rag. The Rules of Procedure are very clear and says that, on the one hand, the amendments should be tabled three days before the debate in plenary and they should be relevant to the subject of the bill under discussion. Here, we have completely irrelevant amendments, just because you want to go through in secret and transparent procedures, i.e. without public consultation, provisions that are very important. I cannot go into all the amendments, that is to say all the bills you have tabled. I shall refer to some of the specific points that I consider to be more important and major. Before I refer to the amendments, I should like to say that we have waited until the last minute, Mr Ministers, for you to have better legislation than Article 24. You did not want to restore this injustice, the discreet and unequal treatment against topographers of technological education. You have just accused us of serving our interests and that our criticism is toxic. Isn't that you're a step-by-step for what you're doing? Why have you not yet restored injustice against a sector, which has offered the greatest amount of work in the whole process and has taken on a very large volume of work. They also have qualifications and experience and ability to respond. We are therefore asking you, even now, to come this legislative improvement that we are waiting for. As far as the amendments are concerned, I am going to refer to the amendment prohibiting entry into schools and suspending duties and the wages are cut and the service is not counted, for teachers who will not present a certificate or certificate of vaccination, illness, etc. Let us say that the Prime Minister a few days ago had apparently announced, for purely communication reasons, that vaccination for teachers would not become mandatory. And now Mrs Kerameou comes in, and while she was able to do so until yesterday, which was discussed by the Ministry of Education's bill, and essentially imposes a number of measures of a total punishment, authoritarian character for teachers who will not present this certificate, when she came out yesterday and applauded them, because - he says - 75% of teachers have already been vaccinated and thanked them. So why this coercion? Why are those measures punishing them, which exacerbate polarization of society? What have you been doing so long in prevention that, healthily, you can shield the schools, shield students with mass tracking, with mass free tests, with mass recruitment of teachers? And you don't shield them on the one hand and punish them on the other. Clearly, we are voting against the amendment. As far as - and I end with this amendment - the amendment, which in relation to school cleaning machines, has set certain criteria which we consider to be racist, because it excludes foreigners, in any case excludes cleaners who do not have a certificate of language. We see that here the government has extended racist and authoritarian methods to school cleaners, which have long been covering constant and constant needs. We consider it unacceptable that the government should apply the practice of the Municipality of Athens in particular. As MERA25, we stand on the side of the workers and on their demand for decent work, with decent wages and insurance, particularly when they cover fixed and continuous needs, which the government covers with multiple works contracts. This is not just about the specifics. It is generally about the contractors of the municipalities whose contracts extend all the time instead of permanent them despite the fact that they cover fixed and long-term needs and are currently in a hostage regime. We therefore call on the government not to consider applying the same unacceptable regime this year. We demand recruitment of all cleaners of school units without racist and other exclusions, without separations. It is the least they can do especially during the particular period of the pandemic, which the cleaners’ work is considered to be particularly important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, too. Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u415	Mr President, thank you. I'll be very brief. It's not a problem, Minister, to disagree. It is no problem having other views, other ideology, other way of dealing with problems. No problem in that. But you'll all realise that today we've lived a legislative Waterloe in here. You have extended the parliamentary procedure. We're talking about a bill that has never been discussed since the morning. Few colleagues, rapporteurs or parliamentary representatives, or as speakers, have referred to your bill. And that's the Waterloo I told you about a while ago. It is what we say, Minister, 'whoever saw the Lord before'. The House's closing tomorrow, and everything that's left to bring it through the window, through the finishing house, through the door, through the carpet to put it in. This is not a parliamentary procedure. I repeat, and I say disagree, it is legitimate that you do not respect the parliamentary procedure, but it is not legitimate. And it is not an excuse for the government that “they also did it, SYRIZA.” We talked about it in the morning. It's wrong. Change the door. Secondly, Mr Georgiods has spoken now, at the end of the day, about speeding up, facilitating, modernising and everything else. Minister, speed up, facilitate and modernise the mess and the mess. You don't solve the problem and you know it. Thirdly, as far as the amendments are concerned, I have two things to say and I shall close, Mr President. First, I told Mrs Kerameo a moment ago, which a card chooses to answer where she wants, when she wants to. It is unacceptable to send the teachers and obligate them to make daily rapid test and PCR of EUR 20, 40 and 60 while they cannot enter the halls and say in the amendment, Mr President, - listen, it is terrible - 'by decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs may be further defined in the event of a repeated infringement'. So the Minister will do what he wants. He doesn't tell us. The Minister can tell us "we can hang them in the square" or anything. And I will comment on what you are doing with the amendments. In other words, we cannot say that the amendment to regulate insurance contributions is in the right direction. We'd be irrational, obviously. Mr President, at some point in the Conference of Presidents we should raise this issue again. We should be able to vote for each article in the amendment separately because we are not talking about toy amendments. We are talking here today, Mr President, listen to me a little, the bill has had fifty three articles and the amendments are fifty. So how can we vote on an amendment that has nineteen articles in its entirety? There is a lot of good, of course, for insurance contributions. Yeah, but she's involved with self-tests with COVID, which we're negative. What can we do now? Say no to insurance contributions? You're messing with us. You're blocking us. It's wrong, it's a puppy, it's not good. Because it is not an amendment to an article. It's a whole bill. Like the other amendment, for example, with the regulation of debts for which time-limits were granted, etc. You have inside things - that alone is what I really close, Mr President - that gives the public the opportunity. So what are you doing? You regulate your debts and despite the fact that you regulate them in the public after the debtor's submission and compliance with the arrangement retains the right to impose confiscations, not to grant any evidence of intelligence, to make a set-off. So what's that? In any case, let's say this, the season, in one day, we'll be done tomorrow and you haven't brained for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u416	Thank you. Mrs Konnakka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, I say in advance that failure to respect time and procedure starts with the government. These are nine amendments and we cannot leave them to the point. Of course, I repeat what I said this morning in my criticism that the way in which you are actually blackmailing our vote by one vote at the beginning of the amendment for unrelated and often wicked and contradictory articles among them cannot continue. In relation to Amendment No 1029 of the Ministry of Digital Governance, we really consider Article 1 and the arrangements concerning the preventive download not only of the website but also blocking of the IP address itself in case there is a case and danger of damage to the public interest, that is to say, the act, but the potential intention 'for', we consider that it is a provocative escalation of the preventive censorship and repression you have made for the Internet. We invite you not to open a road like this. Rethink it because you are opening very dangerous paths to how such arrangements can be exploited. Of course, we are not talking about copyright protection for artists and others, but about large companies that have purchased substantial rights for promotion of football games and so on. We shall vote against this amendment. With regard to the amendment by the Ministry of Culture, the answer the State Secretary gave us made it clear that he has no intention of protecting workers who leave them out of their way, proving that their sensitivity is not to disturb the family lives of the workers. There is the legal framework which provides for their compulsory transfer to personal positions of the Ministry of Culture and, in other words, pretexts in sin the opinions of the Legal Board of the State which does not repeal the law and does not bind the Government. We call again on the Ministry to accept the amendment we have tabled to cover the workers, to reintroduce contracts for those who have been dismissed and to consider their arbitrary suspensions as non-existent. Of course, because we consider it necessary to continue the operation of the child service, we will be placed in the amendment with'residents' because it gives a temporary but totally confusing solution in the way it does. In relation to the Ministry of Finance's amendment, once again the government has rules which actually put self-employed and self-employed workers in the inhaler for a while until they are completely disconnected. Because hundreds of thousands of self-employed and micro-professionals have been charged with debts from your own dangerous and inefficient pandemic policy with blind horizontal lockdowns, inadequate support measures for their income. And continuous doses will finally force them to work only to pay payments to funds and banks. The final solution that could really be relief is the proposal for a law that the JRC has put forward for debt haircuts to the public and the insurance funds that accumulated both in the pandemic and in the previous crisis because of the tax raid you have made to the self-employed and the microprofessionals and, of course, the freezing of their repayments for as long as the crisis lasts and they are then paid off unpunished. In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Interior is one of these amendments which, while there are some arrangements that we would like to vote on, cannot be voted on as a whole and we will be placed with 'the present'. In relation to school cleaners, as well as to the extension of fixed-term contracts to the municipalities for cleaning, we have a clear position that all this staff should be permanentised, working with a permanent and stable employment relationship because it meets stable needs both in schools and in municipalities. In particular, as far as the regulations in the municipalities are concerned, it is indeed a mockery that you will be extending from the beginning of September to the end of September. It is a mockery for the workers themselves and for the needs of the municipalities, which for ten years have not been able to put on permanent recruitment and are being dramatically understood. They, of course, are asking at least for the extension to be by the end of the year, since it is certain that cleanliness and so forth will remain. In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour, we would vote and be positive about Article 6 on the insurance of workers in shipyards. However, because of other arrangements, we will be placed with the present one in the amendment. I have already spoken about the amendment from the Ministry of Health. We are voting against it. However, we would like to vote on Article 7 on the payment of NIMITS employees' newspapers, which we consider to be an unequivocal obligation of the Ministry, and Article 9 on the transfer with the agreement of the officials. Finally, Yiannis Delis was placed in detail on the amendment of the Ministry of Education earlier. It cannot hide the enormous responsibilities of the Ministry for the insecure opening of schools once again and instead of taking measures, it is trying to provoke social automation, it threatens teachers, namely those who kept the school upright throughout the entire pandemic while the government whistled thieves. And I close with Amendment No 1037 by the Ministry of the Environment. We told the Minister that respect for the environment and the culture of the country - because he answered us - is not to sow wind turbines all over the country. It reveals, if you like, the hypocrisy of the statemen of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA who travel from Pindo to Crete and promise that they will not allow wind turbines to enter their villages. The solvency of these declarations is known. However, because it is also known that the determination of the K.E., we repeat that you do not attempt to build wind turbines in the historical places of testimony of Yaros and the Macronissos, as you have been making sure that you are leaking the last time, because you will find us in front of you. And we will do everything we can to prevent this disgrace from happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr. Katsy has the floor now. Oh, he won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u419	I'll talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Famele, keep in mind that you keep the time, although Mr. Katsis has exceeded the time. You've spoken thirty-three minutes, not counting the previous one. I would ask you very much to respect three-minute time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u421	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think we should make an account of the debate on the agenda. We repeat our explicit position. The provisions that the New Democracy will vote for today and the Ministry is recommending are the demining of the work of the Stock Exchange and will be the first register worldwide, which will say in its title that it is an unfinished register. The register is a tool of the rule of law and the process of realisation and objections is done to clarify the titles. You also admitted in the draft law of consultation and throughout the course of discussion that the Land register in Greece will be closed with loose ends. I don't know if you're doing this to make fun of the institutions. I don't know if you're doing this, so you can close your eyes to the country's obligations. The sure thing is that the interests playing games on the Earth market will continue as if we were in 1970. This is clear and results from the positions of actors, scientists, contractors, workers and opposition parties. Do not try, Mr Stylion, to falsify the route of the register to date and I will make it quite clear. The merging of the registers was a SYRIZA project, and that's why it's on the move. Only SYRIZA dared to go ahead and unify Land registers and mortgages. Secondly, the digitisation of the Register was a work of the SYRIZA and therefore began to implement the tools in 2019, 2020 and 2021 and to serve, in terms of topographic charts, in terms of notarial acts, in terms of citizens' information and attestations. The 65% announcement of Greece's real estate was SYRIZA project, the EITMA 16, which is now in a process of realisation. New Democracy didn't do it. SYRIZA proclaimed it and assumes the responsibility of Greece to be covered by a Register. So that's what happened from SYRIZA. How's the New Democracy? It does not allow the process of depositing property rights because it does not inform the world. It does not allow the shapes that have completed the vetisation to proceed to opposition proceedings. It delays and creates bureaucratic problems in objecting and informing the citizen and with justification the work that does not end - which SYRIZA gave it complete with funding and institutional background - it is now coming to say that it will close the Register of unfinished items. Because you have not described any technical tools to cover the reasonable excess that you are doing - because they are exceeded, it is not reasonable - that the register will end two years earlier. With what? With air? Because you said so? What technical tool? Nobody in the technical world has figured out how to close the register earlier. It just won't close, while there were fast-track tools, civil service tools, notaries, engineers, topographers. All of you had surrendered to you. So you come and there is no big proportion of the rights, because you do not call it, you close the process, leaving the public without information and public property with several questions, but also the loose ends on the map, on the property sheet and therefore all contracts. And the neighbors will pass all these loose ends. No objections or postings to justify the hooding. In all this, Mr President, you do not go ahead with the establishment of the register. On the other hand, you are going through provisions of concern to workers too, instead of serving the register. You remove rights from professional groups. All of this is now done by the New Democracy. What are the interests of the New Democracy and SYRIZA? To separate them. SYRIZA wants the rule of law and justice and transparency and development that will come with the rule of law, fairness, fair growth. That is why we want the work as a reform, and we supported it with forest maps, with a haemalous demolition of arbitrary observatories. You do not want all of this because you do not want a rule of law to play the interests, whether they are small or large. It doesn't matter. We're closing the chapter on the Stock Exchange. We'll reopen it, but we'll reopen it so there'll be a land register in Greece. You guys shut it down the way the case goes. On the three amendments, I will only speak with titles to justify the vote. Firstly, with regard to the issues of forest legislation and the ownership of public and substantiated ownership, there is no worse and more obscene legislative procedure than the one you have attempted tonight on a major issue that is not just about the Dodecanese, it is about a very large proportion of island Greece. You underestimate it. You close the eye in an area without documentation, without the processing of forest services, without scientific documentation, because you want to serve an amendment of Members, which means, for me, that elections are probably coming and you are going to do so. In any case, you cannot play games either with public property or with forest legislation or with the interests of private property. Because with what you are doing in the register, you are saving all three: public property and citizens' interests and the forest ecosystem. That's why we say it's unacceptable, it's vulgar as a process of legislating what you're doing for the presumption of ownership...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u422	Good. Thank you very much. Come on, you've been in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u423	Secondly, as far as renewable energy projects are concerned, it is an licensed facility for ten years and it is excluded and it is softened by making the obligation on the cable which is huge as business and economic. This is scandalous regulation. In licensed projects to remove retrospective obligations, ten years later, without giving the rest of the market the right to participate in the electricity sector of renewable energy sources. It will also be examined at the level of the public interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u424	Good. Thank you very much, Mr. Femmelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u425	Wait a minute, Mr. President. There are so many amendments. Should we not substantiate our vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u426	Don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u427	The third issue we want, Mr Stylian, unfortunately of you, because you are the only representative of the political leadership in the field of vaccination, is crucial, because it concerns us all. I put it twice: both the Deputy Minister of Health and the Minister of Education. You do not specify in the amendments who will cover the cost of analyses for workers, because in order to safely open schools, as the Minister said, they must go with analyses, with the first examination by the workers and the staff of the educational community. I would like to point out that this is not only about non-vaccinated people, it is also about vaccinated people, because there is an issue in this House. So I ask the government to tell us who will cover the costs, because if the cost is not met by the state, we cannot accept a debate on vaccination in which the public will bear the costs. I think it's clear. You have to answer us, because that depends on our position. I think that all colleagues are interested in this. So who's gonna pay the cost? You have to tell us, Mr Stylion, and go into the amendment. It is incomplete to propose to legislate at the moment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Katsis, you have interrupted before, to tell you that you spoke twenty-four minutes before the amendments. You were just out there and you didn't hear what I said. Mrs Konnakka and Mrs Adamopoulou have spoken much less and the amendments have been developed again in less time. So don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, we will have to substantiate our vote so that you do not go beyond what you want. So let our parliamentary representative explain our vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u430	Thirty-five minutes and seven now, forty-and-a-half minutes. Mr Snowides has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u431	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a meeting which lasts until 10 a.m. from 10 a.m. I think we have exhausted a number of issues. I would like to put some thoughts at the political level, such as 'why amendments'. We agree that good legislation does not mean many amendments. But when you are in an emergency situation - we have a real war here with the issue of the coronary - clearly and you have to deal with current issues. And the government has proved it many times, even though it was once called "you can give it all up, start" we said "step by step", to do the right thing, depending on developments. That's what happened today. I do not think anyone in this Chamber disagrees with the fact that we clearly had to make the payments in terms of tax, EKKA and a number of other actions on how to open up our schools, whether cleaners should go to school in early September, whether the transfer of students should at the same time be guaranteed, and whether we should be able to resolve issues relating to the everyday life and life of citizens, as well as to facilitate either trades or non-trading. Of course, there is also a need to strengthen local government, which is made through regulation for officials who are private law for a fixed period of time. This extension was given because the issue was raised and these people had to work to do as they need to do to the municipalities, who are being helped and helped in practice by this government and not by words. I would also like to focus on the fact that in this particular case, our central bill concerning the register and other provisions, we have seen that on many issues there was agreement on both sides, the parties, but also on the bodies, that there was, above all, a consensus on the fact that it is in the right direction. There have been great reservations about seeing how it will go. But as far as the register is concerned, governments were working and it was heard in this Chamber that twenty-five years ago Laliotis, then the governments that were hurt, as did the SYRIZA - ANEL government of the past five years, helped move on. I was left with what Mr Famelos said in 2000 that their government was proclaiming in 2000. Today is 2021. In 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 is four years, only since the notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u432	That's how long it lasts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u433	I would like to say that this is our goal, to shorten time. Some dilemmas were also put on the table, which should be answered. Can anyone say, supposedly, when they are in clarity, transparently, whether they are immovable and claiming their borders or their ownership? Clearly anyone can see it. To this day, what happened? One could barely buy a real estate today without knowing the claims. Now he'll know, he'll see it on the computer, and on weekends the lawyers, the engineers can go in and check on it, and you know if it's a claim. The question has also been raised as to whether it can be transferred, to stop transfers. We said it was 2% of the differences. I should therefore like to accept as a working hypothesis that it is 15% with differences. The remaining 85% mustn't go ahead on the basis of what Marios Katsis said? It says: 10% and 15%. 85% to move on? To move forward, and for the rest to know with transparency what the property is. And of course, the time is coming to prove that it's a real job, and it's targeted. The safety concerns of trades are a good one. It is clear and clear that the contracts will be made electronically, that we can stop thousands of service visits. We don't want that, too? One subject that was raised with strength and passion from all sides - and I was called, as were many colleagues in our area - is in relation to the GEI. Yes, it really wasn't a matter that had to be dealt with in this bill, it's a matter of defining professional rights. It's clear. However, the Minister responsible for the Rules of Procedure has given us the legislative improvement in Article 25(1), where after the word 'complaint' the words 'technical report' are deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u434	It has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u435	We haven't received anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u436	He's been filed since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Snowsides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u438	I shall conclude, Mr President. Legislative, therefore, helps to have the vast majority of their work without losing anything special, but you cannot go beyond the existing legal framework on rights of signature. In conclusion, we should even see for the certified people who will work and are engineers of every category, who will be controlled, that the signature of the private person who is working on behalf of the public as certified is reliable and we need to understand that. From there on, did it sound 'whether we have elections'? The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us don't have a mind in the elections. The mind's got it in solving problems. It seems that some of them consider that such measures are being taken in the run-up to the election. We are taking it fully in the midst of the parliamentary term and the life of this government, and that remains to be proved. We don't look at the vote. We resolve issues and we will continue to resolve issues, with credibility and with little mistakes, if you want. That is why a great deal of remarks have been accepted through consultation. The Minister, Mr Stylos, who is present, but also Mr Pierracakis, are open to discussions and many comments were received from the committees, as well as from consultation with the bodies. In this sense, because we are in a positive direction in spite of all the reservations, I would again suggest that this draft law should be passed so that tomorrow citizens can regulate their doses with the amendments that have been made, follow all the procedures, open up our schools properly, but above all do what was a key pillar for the New Democracy, go ahead with the register as it should. Because in life you can't go when you don't know what you got.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u439	Completely, you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u440	To plan for spatial planning, to bring investments - I am closing, Mr President - you must first know what you have. And since the example of the Netherlands, which did so in '85, was mentioned, the Netherlands and the other Central European countries were not in a Turkish rule for a number of years, with all the attitudes and what is happening here. Bulgaria had a communist regime and everything was registered and it was easier. We have the difficulties and idiosyncrasies to be demanding. From that point on, however, let us all make an effort to make it possible to close what the whole world wants in two years, what we are all asking for and what we have seen from the positions that we all want the register finally to be completed. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u441	Mr Stylis, State Secretary for Digital Governance, has the floor to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mr President. We are all here this morning - and my colleague, the majority rapporteur, has said very well and quite rightly - but on some issues I have to give some direction. First, in relation to the work of transforming the Greek Stock Exchange, on the governance of SYRIZA four new real estate offices have been opened. Today we have thirty-five. It is a reform, a transformation consistently implemented and implemented by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. Also, because they have been mentioned many times in real estate, but you cannot be with each other and with others, trying to satisfy the entire audience, because I understand their will to support contractors, contractors, but on the other hand, they want to move on with the work of the Land register, so I say: Who legislated 6A? Was it or wasn't the SYRIZA government that legislated in 6A and had recourse to the Council of State and blocking the realisation for a year and a half? And now this government is coming, it's coming, it's legislated. And you voted for it. And SYRIZA voted for it, but it took a year and a half to understand the mistake you had made. That's what we pay. And for forests your own omissions we are now managing and extended by the government to provide solutions, because there too, in your forestry law, we had recourse to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u443	The Hatzidakis Act is pending in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u444	I would also like to inform you that in our own decisions and during the realisation of the entire information is available to all citizens to know what each is claiming for their rights. I would also remind you of a great change made by our government, research and sighting. She's been welcomed by over two hundred thousand professionals, lawyers and engineers. So if everything was your work, why didn't you make it, too? So it was done by our own government. We have given access to twenty-four hours, seven days a week, from anywhere, in any way, without anyone having access based on their codes to be tracked and recorded. In relation to the objections, because it was in the political speech of all the Members of the Civilian Opposition, the majority rapporteur told you that 2% is currently the objections, the applications for corrections in the Land register. The question has been raised many times: Can 2% prevent the remaining 98%? We say no. What was the philosophy of the Land register, the land register law? It was that 100% has to be completed. 98% goes on, 2% won't let go of it. That is why we have told you that we have organised committees within the Register and that we are energising committees that have so far existed in the law to be able to resolve and answer all these requests for correction and objections. And we told you there were three committees back in the register for a second extra insurance fee, so that we wouldn't send people to the courts. Because that is what you are defending, that we send people into time-consuming and cost-consuming procedures. So you do not accept this big change. And you're not accepting anything else, transparency, people know what's really going on. The rapporteur has told you that. I could buy a plot today or a plot somewhere or an apartment and not know the difference that exists. So what did you do? You were sloppy. You put the problem under the rug. The buyer was not informed, and this is a matter for us of information, transparency, it is a matter of a rule of law, a modern state with clear conditions. We will not mock the investor to come to the country to buy a plot, a plot, to make an investment, whether it is Greek or any other country, and tomorrow to get his problems out and to stick to any investment. So with that philosophy, we are moving on to what we have said is our goal. Our target is a digital Stock Exchange, the display of rights. We will be in two years from now at the pace that the realisation is moving on to have a land register of 90% of the country. Who's telling us that? The Minister told you. We're told by the measurable data we have from the agency from the Greek Stock Exchange. And you know it very well that, as we work for transformation, so we work for real estate. In this way, we will give Greek society a Register organized by over 90% of the country, which for decades had not happened and has been identified in the consciousness of Greek citizens with bureaucracy, with suffering and expense. That's what the government overthrows it. We therefore have a government which, although we are in a pandemic, even though it had to manage the migration, the threats from the neighbouring country, did not stop working, legislating and working in favour of the Greek people by means of substantial interventions such as the current draft law. We invite you, even at the last minute, to make a decision, to take steps forward of the country and the country. You agree, because it's a good bill, it's a good bill. You agree to vote on this bill to send a message to the Greek society that there are laws, there are initiatives that are useful to the world. People know it's useful to him. The political forces in the Greek Parliament can all agree and move on together. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u445	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance is finalised: "Modernisation of the Greek Stock Exchange, new digital services and strengthening of digital governance". We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, fifty-one articles, ten amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u446	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u447	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u448	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Modernisation of the Greek Stock Exchange, new digital services, strengthening digital governance and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u450	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-29-S1-commons.u451	(b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Definition of the Finance Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, the Loan Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic and their Annexes", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
