ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 22-4-2021, the minutes of its PPI meeting, 22-4-2021 as regards the vote on the entire draft law were ratified by the Bureau: ‘Code of Justice and other urgent provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, a SYRIZA MP, a South Athens B3 Progressive Alliance, the following:]] A. REFERENCE OF REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u2	Reporting has been completed and we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today, Friday, 23 April 2021, ten topical questions will be discussed, namely: The Question No 694-15-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridonas - Adoni Georgiadis. The numbers 699/16-24-2021 and 717/19-4-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Constantine Karamanlis. The question under number 712/19-4-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr.Kosokozamani. The Question No 715/19-4-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Zoe Macreys. The numbers 706/19-4-2021, 709/19-4-2021 and 714/19-4-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The Question No 711/19-4-2021 will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The Question No 708/19-4-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Ioannis Economou. They will not be discussed after consultation with six topical questions, namely: The question under number 716/19-4-2021 by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Full through the conditions that led to the death of Pre-Accession Centres for Immunities (PRECCA) Kos and Korinthos". Under No 700/19-4-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The government plans to assign Camp 301 E.B. in Saint Anargyros to individuals instead of the municipality’. The question by No 713/19-4-21 of the Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Repeated injustices in the mobilisation of armed forces, who are serving at the airport of the Coast". The Question No 705/19-4-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To continue the concession of the Real EBRD Company, in which the International Exhibition Centre of Crete is housed and its use for the benefit of local society". Also, after consultation, there will be no debate on the Question No 698/16-4-21 of the current question by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Tradition within twenty days of the former base of Gurnons asks the TSE". Question No 4512/24-2-21 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambous (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the conditions for privatising the former US base in the Yorks of Heraklion Crete?" Also, there will be no debate on number 693-15-21 in the current question of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: “Proclamation of inaccuracy in the data on the supply of vaccines and vaccinations. Worried waiting attitude for Sputnik V and monoclonal antibodies". We begin with the third debate under number 699/16-2021 on the first question from the Member of the Ionian Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Manufacture of the road axis "Platygiali - Ionian road - Agrinio - Karpenisi - Lamia - E65". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Here, Mr Constantopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u3	Minister, the road axis 'Platyyali - Agrini - Karpenisi - Lamia - E65' belongs to the roads recognised - I would say - since 1995, which has been confirmed since 2005. For all it is a project of national strategic importance, because this route from Platygiali - Ionian Road - EN65 joins the western and eastern axis, that is to say connecting Western Greece to Eastern Greece, as well as developing central and central Greece, by changing the road map of Greece. But this work, Minister, despite its enormous importance, remains a promise. There has been a promise and, in particular, to connect Platygiali to the Ionian Road there has been a ready-made study since 2010 with the approved environmental conditions. To date, however, a small portion of six and a half kilometres has been auctioned by the Region of Western Greece. And that still has serious structural flaws and has not been made available. Further, Mr Minister, the vertical connector road Agrini - Ionian road is a consistent demand of local self-government and local society, as well as of course the local bodies of Itolokarnania. Agrinio is the largest urban center of Itolokarnania with a hundred thousand citizens and, however, this large city centre outside the planning of the Ionian Road was left. The responsibilities of many, which so far have not been attributed and the inhabitants are forced to move within twenty-three and twenty-five kilometres east and west for their entrance to the Ionian Road. I have personally raised this issue several times in the House and in the previous administration of the Ministry. Since 2017, with timely questions the subject has come to the House and has been committed both by today and by the previous government to the construction of the project. However, Minister, four years of commitment and announcement have passed and we still do not see a horizon. Recently, Minister, you yourself described this as a national project. And I come to the connection between Agrinio and Camaroula, through Kamarula and Karpenisi. The Agrinio - Karpenisi project is a bridge of Arta, Minister. Work began on a small piece in Camarula, as mentioned, but at the same time we have front - backwards and inhibitors of the project. It is a work that has actually not been attributed to this day, even this small part. It is a problematic network for all those who know the track Agrini - Karpenisi and deprives development in the area, as well as communication safely in central Greece. Studies are there, but construction has remained a promise, and individual small road network improvement projects, which have been pending for a long time, do not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u4	Please complete, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u5	So I ask you, Minister, if there is a direct design of the Ministry for the construction of a modern road network of Platygiali - Ionia Street - Agrini - Karpenisi - Lamia - E65. With what timetable does the Ministry move and with what funding? Is this going to be part of the government's central planning? Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you what is due to the Ministry's inertia so far on this axis. And I am not talking about the present government but about the first, because of course the responsibilities are time-consuming, since, as I would say, the state is constantly involved. Although there are studies for many parts, and even though European funds could have been exploited in that direction, we did not see that. We ask you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for your question, because you give me the opportunity to refer to a recent and very positive one, I would say, development on the subject of connection. We should start from Ionia Street to Agrini, that is if you want to with the first quite important and difficult part that one has to face in any connection from Platygiali to Lamia and E65. And this part, as you quite rightly said, is the interconnection of the Ionian Road with the Agrinio. And as we have noted in the past, given that the total cost is estimated at EUR 100 million, the question of how to finance and implement the project was of great care in order to ensure its viability. For this reason, the Ministry's services had to carry out the necessary studies and follow the best solution, as well as carrying out this work, a difficult and expensive, with the best technical and economic conditions for the benefit of both the public interest and the citizens of the region. I am therefore pleased to say to you, as you have also insinuated in your question, that this work was described by my own decision as a work of special and important national level and is the first very important step towards its implementation. Because let us not fool ourselves, while this project is regional - because since 2011 it has been seen as a project that should be integrated into regional planning - it is a project that is extremely difficult to implement from the region. In fact, in the next few years, all the necessary studies are planned, because the truth, Mr Colleague, is that there is no studyary maturity. The studies have not been updated. The studies include the cost-benefit study - which is very important if we want to obtain funding from the European Union - traffic research and research of origin and destination. These will give us a very clear picture of whether the project is funding and what technical features we need to have for this roadmap, so that we can obtain funding from the European Union's money. The linking of the Ionian Road to the Agrinio is therefore a work which, not in words but in substance, is beginning to be implemented and carried out. We are talking about a 20.5 km project, of which the motorway is thirteen and a half kilometres long, and the Agrinio Region seven kilometers. There are expropriations of a thousand four hundred acres, a cost which we have estimated at around EUR 10 million. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] At the same time - and I will go on with my dentistry, but I would like to say a word, Mr President - we are pleased to tell you that, as regards the competitive procedure for the contract and the preparation of the study of the lamia - Karpenisi road corridor in the Neohoraki and East Tunnel Tunnel 6m euros after five and a half years of study! - the assessment of the final tenders has been carried out and the financial tenders are being opened to begin the process at last. In the Lamia - Karpenisi section is also in progress the contest for the improvement study here on the national road, but in the section of Stavros - Kastri. For the Lamia - Karpenisi - Agrini - Astakos, I shall return, Mr President, to my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u8	Good, Minister. Here, Mr Constantopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u9	Minister, the trans-European axis of Platygiali - Agrini - Karpenisi - Lamia - is, I would say, a national but also a supranational and European interest. However, it is also a timely request, Minister, of the Greek taxpayers of local government, of the TEI, of local bodies, of society in general, because the construction of such a network of modern standards will offer security and speed to transport. Such a modern European road network will open up new prospects for the country, lead to economic development in the wider region, strengthen tourism and facilitate transport, as I have said. As I mentioned in my prototype, Minister, I have tabled several questions on the construction of this road and especially on the part of your predecessors at the Ministry of Infrastructure, but without the Ministry having given any specific answers to the overall design of this road, which has so far not been given priority by any government. However, Minister, it is now time for specific commitments. As you have said, we must not stay in words and evolve and go on to do this work in the interns and in the future. It is therefore a wish that you too agree that this network can be financed from European funds. Indeed, through the Recovery Fund, Minister, they will invade 32 billion euros, resources that are an opportunity for our country to reverse the recession and underdevelopment of the last decade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In this context, it is necessary to promote the construction of large infrastructure projects that will change the image of the country, which will attract investment and the Platygiali - Ionian Road - Agrini - Karpenisi - E65 is such a project of national importance. In fact, I would like to stress that the port of Platygialio can host large investments, escalating even further the economy of the country, giving prospects for the whole country, western Greece and Itolo-Carnania. We are talking about a development orbit project, as has all of us been described, which will change transport, and which should not be an announcement and should remain constantly on paper. That is why, Minister, we must put aside everything that has happened so far, what has taken place and give priority to the port of Platygialio. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, a few days ago you announced joining the Recovery Fund of the Northern Road Axis of Crete and the northern part of the E65. That's right! The road axis, however, of Platygiali - Agrinio - Karpenisi - Lamia stayed out. And I ask why! Why was this work not a priority, Minister, of the Ministry of Infrastructure? Why wasn't accession to the Recovery Fund preferred? Why is a development project that will change the country's economy, a project that all Greek taxpayers demand, did not come to priority? We therefore ask you to prioritise this proposal for this project, because this is how we change Greece. It's up to you, Mr. Karamanlis, to do it. From you we expect to see this road axis taking place from Platyyali to E65. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u10	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr Colleague, you give me the opportunity to refer a little to the Recovery Fund, because things have been written and things have been said which have nothing to do with reality. What is the Recovery Fund? Money we receive at 100% from the European Union - I think we can all agree on that - that is, national participation of zero. What does the Recovery Fund say? It sets very strict timetables and very strict conditions. And what did the Recovery Fund say? He said that "here you will put large projects with a large footprint on the country's GDP". The fact that some projects have not been integrated does not mean that these projects will not be done. One of the prisoners. Two years ago, we didn't have a recovery fund. That's what's here now. So we must make that clear so that there are no misunderstandings. Secondly, the Recovery Fund sets out a number of priorities in which, unfortunately, roads are not within. We knew that from the start. The government does not decide in itself what work will be put into the Recovery Fund. No government in the European Union does that. There's a strict procedure. Because it is European taxpayers' money, not only Greeks, these procedures are very strict and the government is one of the first - perhaps the first country - to have tabled such a comprehensive plan. The Recovery Fund therefore gives priority to digital projects, to projects for green transition and to projects that have a very large and fast footprint in the economy. The roads that entered the Recovery Fund were only two, E65, a mature project that starts immediately and, indeed, yesterday, we sent for the northern part of the Convention to the Court of Auditors and financed part of the BOAK. In other words, there are two very large projects of strategic importance. The E65 is a trans-European network, which in fact leads to isolation of an entire region and contributes to the policy of liberation. The E65 is the largest motorway in the European Union right now. So the fact that no other projects have come in does not mean that these projects will not be financed or that we have put them under the carpet. That's what we need to know. In the works you refer to study maturity, really, does not exist or if there is one, it has not been updated. From 2015 onwards, the data have changed, my dear fellow Member - and you know it well, because from your questions I see that you are following the Ministry's matters - which means that we need to take concrete steps with caution without great words and without announcements, which have nothing to do with reality. So at the moment, I answered you about the first piece of Lamia - Karpenissi and the connection between Ionia and Agrinio. We are at a stage where the studies are being prepared. We don't have funding right now, and I want to be clear. We are simply doing a study in this way so that we can achieve funding from the 2021-2027 programming period. So that's a reality. Anyone who comes and says that there is guaranteed funding for this project is lying at this stage. We are taking the first important step. This not to create the feeling that this thing with a magic wand tomorrow will be ready. Second: Lamia - Karpenisi - Agrini - Astakos. We finance the study with a budget of 20m euros, money that the Ministry's PPP did not have. And here I would like to thank the Ministry of Development, because after our request we have given this money to do these studies. What are these studies? I will be very brief, Mr President. Efforts to improve the Lamia-Karpenesiou national road, a budget of 2m euros. Karpenisi - Agrinio national road improvement study in Karpenisi - Agios Vlasios, a budget of 12 million euros and an association study with Ionian road, with the additional studies in the Ionian Road - Varia - Platygiali - Astakos, a budget of 6 million euros. I would therefore inform you that these studies have already been accepted by the Ministry of Development, so they will be financed. So we are moving forward very quickly in the preparation of these studies so that we can auction after the work, but - very importantly - we have guaranteed funding. Because tomorrow there will be some important announcements by the Prime Minister about two other very important projects in northern Greece, I have to tell you that they may be from a few times - I will not say the only time - that works are announced only when there is guaranteed funding. So here we take the first step. We are moving rapidly to prepare the studies. The second step will be, after all these necessary studies have been completed to ask for funding, to go to the European Union and to ask for money. In other words, they should be included in the new programming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u12	We continue with the debate of the fifth under number 717/19-4-2021 on a topical question by Mr. Evia, Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Miltiades Hatzigiannakis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Financing the project "Finance of the Chalkida bypass". Mr. Hatzyannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you're the Minister responsible, so for these issues, we'll bring you here. I am sure you remember very well that on 9 August the catastrophic floods suffered by the Municipality of Dirfion - Messapion in the area of Politics and the Municipality of Halkidions in the area of Vassilikos, Bourzi, have led us to mourn eight of our people from this disaster. The stadiums of the government that came to the region - and you also participated - in the next few days - in the next few days, if I remember correctly - they made communications, including the one concerning the bypassing of Chalkida to the fishing grounds. It is the most important project, the most difficult because of funding and the most mature one. It is a highly complex project. I would remind you that in December 2014, Mr Chrysochidis then, at an event at which we were invited, had announced that it is mature, that the funding had been guaranteed. He also told us the funding, which was around EUR 160 million. I was called as Mayor of Skyros at the time, so I participated and knew it. Since then there has been no progress. There were then questions from colleagues from both your party and other bodies and towards the government of SYRIZA. And then he was trying, from what we understood, to finance the European Investment Bank, although the work was mature. At least that's what it looked like. We've reached 2020. Nothing's happened. You, and the Prime Minister himself, have announced that we will immediately proceed to the tender. I am pleased to see that you are accurate with what you say and with colleagues. To announce that you will proceed to a tender, it means that this work is mature. With great concern we have seen that it is not part of it, and we have indeed had a hope that it would be the few projects that could be included in the Recovery Fund. This was hoped for such a mature work, which serves tens of thousands of people every day. If we go to the existing road today from Chalkida to Artakis and to Psachna, you will see tens of thousands of cars. I'm not telling you for the summer season. I think that the flows are also important, apart from development, because it is the beginning for poor Evia, which has exactly the same road network for forty years, but also for northern Evia to start hoping that some time the project can be implemented. It's a request from all the residents. For the other two projects you announced, the bypass of Vassilikos and the bypass of Amarynthos, I will not speak about the Recovery Fund. Is there a certain development? These are mature works. In Vassiliki you know that the contractor had begun and a problem had arisen with the contractor himself, so we are talking about updates and a new auction. I don't know, of course, if the contract has been solved. In Amarynthos, too, the studies were completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I would really like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to talk about how project funding data have been changed. Perhaps it would be very interesting, not in the three or four minutes that I have here or in the two you have, to have a word in this Chamber on this subject once. This is not particularly important for party controversy, but for us to see where we are really. You're right. The project was auctioned in 2014 and was announced. What happened, however, in 2015, which perhaps we do not know many people in this Chamber or perhaps many people forget it. From 2015 onwards, after you came to power - not personally, but the party you represent - changed the data, in what sense? That it does not mean that because I have a mature project, it will be financed by Europe. Other specifications are in place. You had to have an NGO, that is, a cost-benefit study, that is, you had to prove why you were on this road making a four-way road rather than a dilemma. This is the problem with the bypass of Halkiddos, that was the problem with Thessaloniki - I am telling you another project - that is the problem that Mr Kahrimanis, the regional director, is facing on the road Janitsa - Kakavia. These are projects that many of them, as you quite rightly say, have mature studies, but after 2015 - and I will not tell you why, it is a very technical debate, but I am at your disposal to discuss it - and after terriblely wrong choices made by that government, Europe came and said this very simple, so that we all understand it: 'Masters in Greece, do you want this road?' I will approve it with the Jaspers, who are the technical advisers of Europe. In other words, you should prove to me specific technical features, cost-benefit study, all the necessary studies to prove that this project can be financed, otherwise we do not finance it." Therefore, we are now in this process. We will soon be ready to announce exactly what we will do on this road. We're talking, as you quite rightly said, about three road projects, right? It has a budget of 240 million. We are talking about the bypass of Chalkida - Scanners, cost of 150 million, bypass of Basilica, cost of 45 million and bypass of 50 million. Therefore, we, like your government after 2015, are trying to incorporate this project in order to be approved and financed, because, as you quite rightly say, it is ready to study. However, this road has technical characteristics at this stage which the technical advisers of the European Commission do not approve. The technical advisers of the European Commission are the same technical advisers of the CIB, because you referred to the European Investment Bank. Therefore, for some time now, we have been seeing the studies so that we can improve the technical characteristics and prove that there are high sustainability indicators, the so-called economic rate of return - that is what they want in the European Commission - which express the socio-economic efficiency of the project. Therefore, for the specific work which, as you have said, many other colleagues from all the parties have said, has been a priority for many years now, we have not at this time received any guaranteed funding. In the next six months, however, with the change in the technical characteristics of the studies, we will be able to integrate it into the European Union. I will tell you that we will proceed with the drafting - and we have already done so - of premeditated designs so that we can see the technical features more accurately and the design that I now tell you is completed in the summer of 2021. The project will therefore be able to be auctioned immediately in the next year, provided that the technical characteristics and all characteristics are accepted by the European Commission. Because here we are, I think it would be unreasonable to go back again and say that we are ready for study, that we will auction it. We could auction it with a number and some money, but in fact, that would require the canteens down below, because we would not have secured the total funding we need to do the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u16	Good. Mr. Hatzigiannakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because I am aware of the procedures for financing the projects and, above all, of the approval by the institutions of the European Union and the European Investment Bank and of the fact that, to tell you the truth, I have also been able to take part in some discussions with appropriate assessors, I know them. For this reason, from me at least in full-scale projects and funding, as important as I consider them to be my place for Evia, you will not hear me plundering. I'm not even gonna tell you where we're going to get money. But I'm saying something specific. Obviously, the whole question of costs - benefit - has to be proved. Obviously, to be paid out of European funds, this issue must be completed. But I have two questions. In August, when you were there, didn't you know that? When you said that the next period would be auctioned, had you been well informed? Because we stood there and hoped to tell you the truth, even though we knew it was difficult. Because we knew that it is very difficult to accept the financing of road corridors from the Recovery Fund, for which, incidentally, it is not right what you said, it is not all of the European Union's money.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u18	When I came in, there was no recovery fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u19	No, there was. In August 2020, it took place. On 10 August 2020, you came, 9 p.m. the floods. But that's not what's important. Because we have also had an article in Kathimerini, which obviously 'Kathemerini' did not find it from me but found it from some of the circles of the government, which said that this project will try to get into - in your proposal it will be, I am not saying that it will be approved by the European Union - in the Recovery Fund, such as the Northern Road of Crete, which you are doing very well and suggesting, if you like my appreciation. And I do not put it in the balance that "why should Crete enter, but why should Evia not enter?". You do well to put Crete. You do well to put the E65 on. However, without wanting to be a localist, I think that this work, due to the importance and population characteristics of this region - how many people are served and how these conditions can be documented - could and should have been within the Government's proposal for the Recovery Fund. It's not that big, it's 0.5% of funding. Where I corrected you, I didn't mean that the money was not being given. You know better than me that about 19.5 billion is funding. These are provided by the European Union budget with our own participation, obviously. All states, not just ours. I don't mean co-financed. The rest is a loan. The Greek people will be fine. It is not funding from the European Union. It's a service, it's a loan of 12.6 billion. That's the correction. We won't disagree on this part. Minister, knowing the procedures of the public quite well and the delays that will take place on such serious issues, I do not see how these projects - because they are three different projects, as you quite rightly said - will be financed next year. I wish, but it does not result from the whole process and from your honesty, I believe, in reply. Just answer us if, in fact, it was a general placement rather than a specific instrument for the immediate integration of projects into the Public Investment Programme or any other financial instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u21	We need to put things in a row. If the projects were so easy from 2015 to 2019, why didn't you finance it? Since the study was mature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u22	No, we don't say it's easy. That's why we're here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u23	I'm not saying that in a controversy. So we all boil in the same pot. Here we have to understand that there are no magic wands. One of the prisoners. Secondly, after 2015, I repeat, there is Regulation 207 of the European Commission. You negotiated him. Kolafos for infrastructure projects in Greece. Because while these conditions were not in place before, the very strict, with your 'proud' negotiation, you succeeded after and after we put all the tail under the legs, to accept things that no other government has accepted. One of these is what I'm telling you. Regulation 207 says: Gentlemen of the Hellenic Republic, for whatever work you want, we will approve of it, the European Commission and you will have to come and tell us why this work needs to be integrated. So here we have a problem. This road is quadruple. You know it well from the studies. Your government has made efforts too. I don't cancel them. I know my predecessor made a very important effort for this work and he was trying to convince the Jaspers - because there are these documents - to take this way as a quadrant. And that's what we do. And the Recovery Fund came, and we did, we proposed the project - that is nothing secret - as we suggested other projects that did not go in. You are right that the bypass of Chalkida is a very important project, because I am very aware of the problems that Evia and its road have. And it is really a disgrace for the 21st century to have this road network in the region. So we say this. Since we came to this day, do not forget that we have had the greatest health crisis in the world. Nevertheless, in this period, with all the difficulties that have existed, we have made all the pre-selects to improve the technical features of the project and to be able in the next six months to go to the Jaspers and tell them: This is our new proposal. Here is the study we have, updated and improved. Let me give you an example, because I think it's a problem. I told you that from the node of Nea Lampsakos to the beginning of the search bypass, it is a quadruple road, despite the fact that in the node of Nea Lampsako the road load is split to the south and north of Evia. Right? This results in the size associated with the bypass of Chalkida being drastically reduced. Therefore, we have focused to convince Europeans that with some changes in the technical specifications in some parts of the road, we will be able to achieve funding. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm not saying it's going to happen from one day to the next. However, a very important job has been done since August when I visited your area and, indeed, we had the very important natural disasters and said that this work should be seen and started. Here we are, and I am at your disposal in Parliament, in the next four months with five months, to have a full picture of whether, by changing the technical characteristics, what I have told you, we will finally be able to achieve funding. Because the truth is - and let us be honest - that, if we do not achieve funding from the European Commission or EIB, there is no way that we can finance it from the EIP. This is a reality and I think that you know that reality and you know it better, because you were in things from 2015 to 2019 and if you could, you would have financed it from the IDP, which was not done. So here we are looking at all these issues carefully and you will see that we will very soon have a comprehensive proposal and an integrated solution to achieve funding for this project, of course, in absolute consultation with the regional director and with all the local actors, with whom we often work together and exchange views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the first with number 694-15-2021 top-level question of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr.Efstratios (Stratos) Simopoulos to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: "The implementation of the Business Response Park (EPE) in Kalohori - Pontou Street in Thessaloniki". The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, first of all, I am very pleased to hear about the launching of projects that, as a government, in 2012-2014 and of course with the partners and, above all, with the Ministers at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have had the pleasure of mature very much and from what I understand from the Minister's assurances, are projects that will go ahead. I come to the question now. I was pleased to hear, Minister, last week in the debate of the Legislation on the simplification of authorisations, that the problem is, in fact, solved by the creation of a business settlement park in the Oinophytas. The informal industrial gathering, which exists in the area of Kalochori in Thessaloniki, automatically came to my mind. And I would like to stress that this is not only about the Kalochori region, but also about the Pontou Street, which is above PATHE, where there are hundreds of businesses. It's an area of four and a half thousand acres, which has all the potential to turn into a business refining park. The area belongs to the Municipality of Delta, Ampelokipou - Menemena. And I would also suggest a section in the region of Trentopotamos, which also belongs to the Municipality of Ampelokipou - Menemi, but also to the Municipality of Thessaloniki, because it has all the possibilities, according to the definition of a business park, to join this area, which we do not discuss. The infrastructure in the region is too defective, I would say, despite the efforts made by the municipalities and by the region. I think it is time, in full cooperation with the Ministry of Development with local government and productive bodies, to start the process of implementing this business park immediately. The first attempt, of course, will be about funding. And I would like to hear your opinion and possibly your commitment, that you intend - and in what way - that the government finances this action.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, first of all from your professional capacity and from your term as Secretary-General of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I think you are well aware of the institutional framework governing the restructuring and establishment of industrial parks in the areas characterised by informal industrial concentration. Greece has a peculiarity. He's got a lot of peculiarities, but let's stay on this one. It has nine hundred and eighty-four acres on the ground - I say again the number to understand the problem, two hundred and ninety thousand twenty-four acres - which have been characterised by informal industrial concentrations, namely industries over the decades, have built atypical industrial parks - in the sense that they are concentrating in a region and burdening a region - without this being organized to protect the environment, so that there can be control over the size of the costs of the surrounding area. So, no doubt, this problem needs to be tackled. And, indeed, from the institutional framework of the 2011 Act, it started trying to get them into a series. You referred to my legislative initiative last week on the final phase of the placement of the informal industrial concentration of the winefruits and its transformation into an industrial park. In fact, I think there will be a model industrial park, which will be an ornament. But I have to say to you - because you have stayed in funding and I will return to my dentistry - that, in the current institutional framework, the initiative for the development of business parks is private. In the Oinofytas money is put on by the businesses that are there, not by the state. The state provides the laws, procedures, the placement - what we did here the other day - but the money is put on by the entrepreneurs, who will also benefit from the better functioning of the industrial park and the new possibilities that this will give them. Now that's the institutional framework that's in place. In other words, in Kalochori, the initiative cannot be a State. It's business. I can tell you that the state, already the Ministry of Development, Mr President, has approved, has finished all the studies on Kalochori since July 2019. But now there is something we can use and it is the money of the Recovery Fund, where we have predicted and put money in to help create new industrial parks and as new industrial parks it is also the conversion of informal industrial mergers. So, what's the chance of this year? That if there is a rapid initiative from the local and regional government of Central Macedonia and from the private companies in Kalochori, the state could also contribute. But the state cannot take over all this funding. The next in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u28	Mr Simopoulos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. I am making as a commitment what you have said and it is very important that you also intend to contribute to the financing of the necessary studies in the first phase. As far as I know, local government, regional government and, of course, bodies are also ready to contribute. First of all, the AENP must be created, which will be financed later on. Be sure that the issue is not just business, it's also environmental, because next door is Ramsar, it's the lagoon - which we call - of Kalochori. It will also contribute to the upgrading of the area, because the western Thessaloniki and the Delta Municipality, in particular, have most employees in the region. So it is an environmental issue, too, which is something you can take into account for the Recovery Fund. And, of course, what I would like to stress, although it is not yours at all, is that we have the Gonu camp, and according to a government announcement, it will become a free trade area. So we also need to move on to the Gonu camp to somehow incorporate it into planning, stressing that, in order to do this, it should be relocated in accordance with the rules of the European Union and the Greek state and the great concentration of the Roma, the settlement that is next door. I would like to stress that the Chamber of Commerce is already moving in this direction - it has appointed its Secretary-General, who has established himself in the area as responsible - and is ready to contribute. The region is already moving on a major project in the Pontou Street which also includes nodes and decompresses traffic in the region. Finally, bear in mind that the region is adjacent to the port of Thessaloniki, where according to the investment programme some EUR 300 million will be invested in order to become a transit hub not only for the Balkans but also for the entire Southeast Europe. So we have an area where we need to bear in mind that we can organise it in this way and that there too many transport companies and logistics companies can be transferred there. Be sure to put the seal on a great reform effort across Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Simopoulos. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u31	First of all, I should like to make it clear that we already have communication on the issue of Kalochori with Mr Djijikosta. It has shown great interest and I look forward after Easter and on my own initiative to having a meeting with all the stakeholders so that we do not lose time and move as quickly as possible on the establishment of an industrial park in the Kalochori area in the manner provided for in the existing legislation, and there we can come and contribute in the way that we can and will agree on a whole range of matters - and I repeat - with all the interested parties. With the experience of the Oinofytas, we now know and at what points has been delayed and where not, I want you to know that my commitment to legislate on Kalochori as well as on what is asked of me by the Regional and Local Government is valid. As I did about the Oinophitas, I said in the House that the request had come from the Region of Central Greece, I will do so immediately. Because I believe that it is absolutely essential for Kalochori to establish an industrial park on environmental terms, with services that will increase the competitiveness of businesses, but which will also provide better environmental protection for our fellow citizens living around this area. So it is a big issue in the public interest that we should not lose the opportunity now to move the informal industrial concentration of Kalochori into a - and there - industrial model park, as we do in Oinofytas. So consider me an ally in this effort. I repeat that with Mr Djijkosta, the Governor of Central Macedonia, the mayors of the region, the chambers, you MPs and, of course, the entrepreneurs, who are themselves interested in the creation of this park, we should immediately start this cooperation, not waste time, now that the overall plan is ready, to proceed with the establishment of this industrial park. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second with number 715/19-4-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The voice of indignation of the students of the summer high school." The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Macrey, will answer. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, to give time to projects that need, have costs and have studies. Of course, we're giving time credit. But what we need, Minister, is common sense, we do not give time to give credit. We are doing a great deal of work when it comes to the legal sense, Mr President. The vast majority of the students of the summer high school are workers whose real needs led them to stop their fictitious studies at a younger age and adults anymore, workers and often parents, seeking their own opportunity to continue their studies in order to improve their personal and social status. The government, rather unable to understand the day-to-day struggle for these people to meet their obligations and, at the same time, to continue their education, establishes a single basis for introduction into daily and esoteric high school. You have made substantial progress in cancelling in practice the additional 1% of those admitted to higher education who come from Spanish high schools, GELs and PESALs. Noteworthy, Minister, that the students of the summer high school have completed from early December the statements of their preferences in schools and departments before your legislative arrangements, the legislation that came four months ago, i.e. when you passed the Ministry of Education's bill. And even you make these arrangements within a difficult period of time that we are going through as a society. Ignoring fully the role of the existence of summer high school throughout the country, you choose to deprive the dream and the right to education. We have and have received, Minister, dozens of protest letters from the whole of the country's summer high school. You have to understand that with your policy you are creating inequality and acute problems. Minister, because it is impossible to exclude people who are conscious of their careers in the middle school - no social justice and social sensitivity if you insist - I call on you to take a position now. Would you care not to exclude students from their entry into higher education? In particular, do you intend to go ahead with legislation to exclude these students from the single import base, since 1% is in excess of the number of importers? Do not forget, Minister, that in the seventy-fifths of thousands of importers these are around the six hundred-fifths, maybe seven hundred, and despite the effort we have made, unfortunately, when the Ministry of Health's bill came, even when our President Alexis Tsipras referred to it briefly and thoroughly, you did not provide a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u34	Good. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u35	My colleague, in fact, is a historic institution and one of the pillars of the Greek education system. This is because it is an important factor in alleviating social exclusion. We all agree that Estonian education is, in fact, the second opportunity to complete compulsory and secondary post-compulsory education for those who have for a number of reasons stopped their apprenticeship and are necessary. It is an excellent way out for those who seek to improve their social and economic situation and, in general, the quality of their lives through their professional development. Its contribution is very important in the implementation of expectations and ambitions, and contributes and contributes both to the improvement of confidence and self-esteem of the individual and to the cultivation and integration of his or her personality. Mr President, no one has the right to stop trying, even worse than the introduction of a student or student to higher education, and much more of those students and students who make a worthwhile and respected night-time effort being both workers and study at the midday GEL and ESDP. For the introduction to the higher education of graduates of these high-schools, provision is made by the legislator. The provisions of Article 4 of Law 4186/2013, as originally replaced by Article 100(4) of Law 4610/2019 and subsequently Article 165 of Law 4635/2019 and by Articles 1, 2, 5, 6 of Part 1 of Law 4777/2021, shall apply. Graduates of the GELs are introduced into higher education in the course of the school year immediately following the academic year of graduation in addition to the number of admissions appointed by a decision of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs. In particular, higher education institutions, higher ecclesiastical academies and higher tourist education schools shall be introduced through introductory examinations conducted at a pan-Hellenic level on subjects raised exclusively by a central examination committee. Similarly, they shall be introduced into the Schools of the Academy of Merchant Navy by means of pan-Hellenic examinations, subject to specific conditions, procedures and conditions of introduction laid down in the relevant provisions. Here too, the number of importers is defined by a joint decision of the Ministers for Education and Religious Affairs and Maritime Affairs and Island Policy. The introduction, Mr Colleague, to higher education is the result of the minimum import base per school, department or introductory direction and of the total of the molecules collected by the applicant in the four pan-Hellenic courses in question in the relevant scientific field. For the determination of the total molecules of each candidate, the lessons and the relevant gravity factors shall be calculated. In schools, departments and introductory directions requiring the examination of a special course, special courses or practical tests due to the nature of their cognitive object, examination of a special course or special course or practical tests shall be carried out in Greece. Furthermore, for graduates of the ESAs, in accordance with the applicable legislation, it is always laid down that the matter examined for the courses and the subjects of the examinations is common to candidates for the day-to-day and evening PSAs. All candidates are dealt with in four last-class courses, two of which are of general education, and two of which are of specialty courses. The courses under examination are determined by a decision of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs. As far as matters are not specifically regulated by Law 4777/2021 and Article 5 are concerned, we refer to the general rules applicable to the importation of senior and candidate GLP to academic institutions. Furthermore, the calculation of the minimum import base for citrus fruit is laid down in the same Article 5 of Law 4777/2021. Of all this, Mr President, it is easy to conclude that the minimum import base is designed to ensure the academic requirements of successful schooling and the early completion of the studies of pupils and pupils of summer high school in tertiary education, but also the qualitative upgrading of study and the reduction of the rate of non-inclusion. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is committed to its mission and its objective to provide a substantial and real educational and professional development of pupils and students. It does not follow methods and procedures that will lead our children to dead ends in the future, because they cannot cope with the demands of higher education. On the contrary, he tries with every educational means to highlight gradients and skills, creating the guarantees to achieve a more quality professional life. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u36	Good. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u37	Madam Minister, I would like to say something else, but let me read a press release. "I really am pleased for all these children who, after a long absence from the natural classroom, return to their normality, in the school environment and regain the benefits of their presence in it. I am really proud of all the students and students who, despite the difficulties, prove that we can rely on the new generation. The Ministry of Education approachs and tackles with the same care and unified commitment all levels of education, all pupils, all teachers. We support and strengthen in every way the presence, function and work of the summer high school. We focus on the needs and requirements of students who attend them. We are responding...”, Mr President, "we are in every way strengthening the presence, function and work of the summer high school, focusing on the needs, the demands of the students who are studying them. We respond with sensitivity to the particular social conditions, make arrangements for chronic issues and pathogens, and intervene compensatoryly so that the esoteric high school is an opportunity and ensure the prospect of every student." You know these are your words, Minister, that you said when you visited Volos the 2nd Esperian High School, the summer P.A.L. You have claimed, as now, that you are approaching and addressing all levels of education and all pupils, that you are responding substantially to particular social sensitivities. How exactly do you do that? Do you, by rejecting amendments by SYRIZA and the Communist Party, which solved the problem? You rejected them a few days ago. How exactly do you strengthen the function and work of the summer high school? In words? Madam Minister, the questions I should like to ask you are two. Has the introduction of pupils and pupils into higher education been impossible at the moment? Yes or no? Tell us, just understandable. Do you pledge that there will be no problem with these people introducing them into tertiary education? And I explained to you in my protology who these people are. Or do you still consider them children of a lower god today? Madam Minister, you have to give an answer here. I told you that it is a different cost, as Mr Karamanlis said earlier, for some projects, which need studies and have costs, and others are legislation that needs simple logic. So, after thirty years, you will come on the eve of the Greek examinations to tell us that you exclude all these people who are struggling for life and learning, Minister? Excuse me, but give us a clear answer, no poems. Because indirectly with the single import base you abolished 1%. And I told you they were seven hundred in seventy-five thousand. If you want, give us an answer. Otherwise, I appreciate the words you said, Minister, because that is what the students told me, that what Mrs Matutes told us is a solution to the problem - and I am going to say that the lie has close legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u38	Good. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Colleague, this is not a lie. Because we in the Ministry and respect and honor those children who are making a titanic effort, do not consider them in advance nor do we exclude them from taking part in the examinations and attending higher education. You're cheating on the kids. You, first of all, consider them to be children of lower god and it is not worth giving them this opportunity. You anticipate their failure. On the other hand, we think they have the same opportunities, the same opportunities and we pay great attention to them and we are interested in them. And you understand very well that it would have no political cost for us to say that there would be no minimum import base and any candidate would be able to enter universities even with one unit. This would mean indifference on the part of the Ministry, because we would overlook that the educational development of the candidate with such a low introductory basis does not actually exist, that he will not be able to cope with the demands of the school he chooses. And we would prolong this rejection, which you think - we again have not - for some time long. According to the OECD, Mr. Colleague, Greece is in the fourth place in relation to the introduction of candidates to higher education. Unfortunately, many leave academic studies because of a failure to respond. That is why the minimum basis for introduction to higher education was found to be necessary for the candidate himself, who respects him and who cares for him, we are not mocking him or we are not on a timely basis satisfied with his desire, as we see in the long term, but it was also considered necessary for the quality upgrading of the universities and for the strengthening of the candidates' skills. It may not be known that one of the four students of the institutes of vocational training is a university graduate, and this is because the degree of the HEIs does not always offer immediate or good professional rehabilitation. Thus, young people turn to vocational training by increasing the chance of finding work. That is why we provided in the new institutional framework under Law 4777/2021 for a parallel computer to be registered in the public IEK, which aims to strengthen the skills of young people and to provide many parallel alternatives for them. In particular, senior officials and candidates participating in the pan-Hellenic examinations of each school year may be interested in covering a post in a public IEK by submitting a parallel computerised document. And that is why there is a specific number of posts for the public IEK, identified by decision of the Secretary-General for Vocational Training, Training, Lifelong Learning and Youth of our Ministry, and these posts are covered by senior and candidates of the pan-Hellenic examinations in each school year. The parallel computerised form shall be submitted during the same period of submission of the first stage computerised form. Candidates participating in the pan-Hellenic examinations of each school year may submit both the first-stage computer and the parallel computerised form. The way in which the lists are drawn up, the selection criteria, the way in which the level is removed and the time, place and method of communication of the results are set out in the rules of operation of the institutes for vocational training. Graduates and candidates who have not been able to understand any of the posts in public IEK may apply for a placement cover in accordance with Article 25 of Law 4763/2020 and the regulation on the operation of IEKs. Posts of trainees who remain vacant after the completion of the process of submitting the parallel computer are available, in accordance with the article I mentioned, to be covered and in accordance with the rules of operation of the institutes for vocational training. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 708/19-4-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Arta of the Change Movement Mr Christos Gokas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measures of financial support and enhancement of the incomes of the Estonians of Regional Unity (PT)". The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Ioannis Economou. Mr. Goka, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I am returning today to the great problem concerning the disposal of citrus fruits in Arta, but obviously also in the other regions. As I have asked you with previous questions - a timely and two written - the problems relate to the whole production, clementines and other varieties of mandarins, oranges, navalines, etc., but also to lemons. In view of the pandemic, the world market situation and high competition, demand and exports were reduced, as were internal consumption. The principle was made with clementines and then other varieties of mandarins, where most of them remained indisposed, while for those sold the sales prices were very low to degrading, below about half last year's price for the producer, without even covering the cost of production. The same development, unfortunately, also applies to oranges, where almost half of them were left unsold, while the sales prices also did not cover the cost of production. The protracted rainfall then prevented harvesting, but also caused fruitfruits, while at the end of January and mid-February the frost further damageed all citrus fruits. Minister, the citrus producers of Arta and other regions are in an economic stalemate and despair. They're probably living the worst year. There have been no concrete measures for their financial support from the Ministry's replies so far. Minister, we are reaching the end of April and citrus fruits, with this data, cannot continue to produce and obviously all the citrus producers have remained without the necessary income for their survival and the survival of their families. Producers are also waiting for ELGA compensation, but they are obviously a part of the damage. But mostly they expect financial support and support to cover the loss of their income. Is there, Minister, the political will for specific and specific measures to cover the documented loss of the income of citrus producers through national or State aid, but also European programmes such as de minimis? When will these financial support measures be announced and what will they include? How does the ELGA process evolve? What is envisaged in this respect for producers as compensation and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u42	Good. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, what you describe in your question is an undeniable reality, namely that the primary sector as a whole is a vulnerable and vulnerable sector in external factors, such as pandemic and disasters from climate change. If one even combines this structural feature with the chronic weaknesses of the primary sector in our country, one realizes that resilience is not one of its most intense and best features. It is not one of the advantages of Greek agriculture. Natural consequence is, as you rightly described, both for the people in the Regional Unit Artas and for the entire productive potential of the country, the shrinking of his income, a very unpleasant reality for the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer. We are not talking here about a blow which is invisible or general. We are talking about a very substantial result that farmers experience in their daily lives. We are not talking about fictitious figures, but about necessary measures to compensate for their losses, so that they can have a decent living. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food is well aware that 2020 has not been a good year. It was bad conditions, it was bad conditions, it was bad times, and it was bad times, and in some cases it was very great, as in the whole economy. Mr President, since we began to experience this very difficult and negative situation, we have committed ourselves to standing on the side of all those affected. The Prime Minister himself has said many times, he has made a personal commitment that our goal is not to leave anyone alone, not to stay behind, to give the necessary support and reinforcement, so that the next day will find us all the most dynamic. However, if support in times of crisis and in cases of natural disasters is one part - and I will return very specifically to my dentistry with answers to what you have said - a second part is a policy that will ensure substantial and, above all, sustainable support for the incomes of Greek producers. In order to ensure this production for all Greek farmers and for the citrus producers of Arta, we need a structured agricultural policy. The main features of such a policy are increasing performance, improving quality, ensuring and strengthening the competitiveness of Greek producers, are the demographic renewal of the country's production potential. It is a dynamic strategy for relocating Greek products to the domestic and foreign market. It is the application of new technologies to cultivation methods. They are, if you like, interventions in irrigation and energy, which are the major part of production costs for all Greek farmers and farmers. Such a policy is designed and implemented in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, incorporating the challenges of the new CAP and making use of the financial tools of the Recovery Fund. I shall return to my dentext to specific answers as regards compensation for natural disasters, but also to the thoughts of aid for the pandemic. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u44	Good, Minister. Mr. Goka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u45	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, really five months after my first time question about the problem of the disposal and marketing prices of citrus fruit, I would prefer not to have this debate and have the debate on the general policy issues for the primary sector. However, the Ministry has been unduly delayed so far, and these exceptional situations impose direct state aid now, they impose support through each programme related to the loss of income, beyond the compensation, as I said, that the ELGA can cover. To date we have a general framework in your responses, as in individual issues. You mentioned serious issues about performance, competitiveness, crop restructuring, irrigation, energy, but new government projects are planned to be carried out with PPP systems. I assume that we will no longer bear the costs of production in this way. However, to return to the issue of support for and financial support for the citrus growers in Arta, which is also the subject of the question, I do not want to put the demand for prices again, is well known. There are estimates of loss of income, they are - I believe - and you are well-known. That these crops also have a high cost of production and that is well known. Therefore, the loss of income for each producer and producer must be fairly covered, for all those producing citrus fruits and expecting income for their family, and in particular small producers in this system should be paid attention. And Arta, Minister, is based on the primary sector by producing high-quality products, as well as on citrus production, but also on other sectors, livestock farming, poultry farming, apiculture, aquaculture and other production. It is important to have aid on time when these need to meet existential needs, because how will farmers and their families survive? How will they grow? We are at the end of April, patience and endurance are exhausted, Minister. The gates of the IACC have not yet been opened in some areas. Electronically they have begun to submit statements, but most centres have not been opened and most cannot proceed with the process. We've had the known problems with the OPECE. The farmer card has not been activated, the beginning on March 20th had been announced. There is no possibility for farmers to access crop loans and credit institutions do not respond to farmers' requests. Minister, I am conveying to you the anxiety and concern that exists in the rural world. That is why action, solutions and measures are needed and quickly. Part of the damage, as I told you, could be covered by ELGA. But the ELGA is well known. There are cases which are not provided for in the Regulation. New diseases, climate change cause new problems. It has been delayed, and the reform of the regulation must go further than that. The problem of the formation of producer groups is also very serious and essential. It is difficult for farmers to move forward. There must be initiatives for information, know-how, legal, technical, economic support. It is crucial that the setting up of producer groups should go ahead, because the challenges are many, and it is also apparent in the development and management of such situations that we have had this year. There is an institutional framework, but it must be promoted by appropriate measures and initiatives. Since we all think - and I would like to believe not in the words - that the primary sector is a pillar for the country's productive and development reconstruction, it should be strengthened accordingly. Finally, I would like to say, Minister, that to date it has not been supported as it should have been in terms of state aid or the financial programmes in the context of the pandemic, and in the Rural Development Programme and in the plan for the Recovery Fund, the forecasts are extremely limited in proportion to the importance of the primary sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u46	And you're finishing up, Mr. Goka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u47	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Minister, most of all it requires direct and substantial support for farmers at the moment in order to continue their production and activities. They are now waiting to hear concrete measures with immediate - literally - implementation that meets the needs that have been created, what aid will be given if it is to be and when it is to be done. I hope in your dentistry that we can hear something more specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two very brief comments. The cultivation of a culture of cooperation and the upgrading of the presence of cooperatives as a whole in the castle of the Greek primary sector is one of our main priorities, a priority that we have served and institutional interventions that we will continue to serve, but also with incentives that we will make right use of the financial tools that we have, so that our producers can obtain through the cooperative operation, through the producer group, the crucial size that is necessary to be competitive and sustainable in modern times. As far as OPEKEPE is concerned, we have been through it several times. The IAC process has been opened, while the certification process of the CACs and the new CARs will start very quickly and effectively. I think that overcoming problems that are not due to the organization, but to distortions and weaknesses that come from the past, which will be good to talk at some point, we are working for the benefit of the Greek producer so that they can work properly. I now come to the specific answers, Mr Colleague. Just last Saturday, the Prime Minister during his tour in Corinthia, he himself carried out an autopsy among the others in affected areas. What the Prime Minister has made clear was that the crops affected will be compensated quickly and justice for the benefit of the producers who need it. We are at the same wavelengths, Mr Colleague, and we in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It is clear to us that those crops affected, whether under the ELGA regulation or not under the ELGA regulation, will be compensated by another financial instrument when the size of the disaster is estimated and they will be compensated effectively and fairly. After all, this is something that we have proved and something that you know, as the Greek producers know, and from other cases in the past. I am referring, above all, to the unprecedented method, speed and level of compensation granted to 'January'. I now come to the specific case of the Arta Prefecture, as is apparent from the elements of the branch of ELGA Ioannina, under whose jurisdiction the wider region belongs. There are damages to citrus fruits, particularly to oranges, which are covered by the regulation. The necessary actions and points from all the geotechnical services of ELGA have been taken. In particular, a thousand nine hundred declarations were tabled concerning about ten thousand acres and three thousand parcels in total. Because of the most effective operation of the ELGA over the last few years, the work of assessments of these damages has begun immediately before the submission of the declarations has ended and has already been completed. The design, Mr Colleague, is to complete the writings of the damage tables in May 2021 and then make their notification. And because these crops are linked to the OSCE of last year, 2020, compensation is expected to be paid very quickly by July 2021. In simple terms, that means exactly what you have raised as anguish and as anguish and producers, that in fact, within about five months, compensation will be paid, when in the past, as you and above all our producers are well aware, the compensation was paid in part and even in the beginning or mid-term of next year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In fact, the amount of compensation, according to the estimates of the ELGA Ioannina branch, is estimated to be about EUR 2 to EUR 2.5 million for the region. At the same time, in relation to the rainfall of last autumn, until the beginning of December 2020, crop markings were indeed created and the geotechnical damages were identified by the agricultural services due to fungiological insults, mainly monasteries, which are not known to be covered by the ELGA regulation. These losses could be covered - and a well-documented job is being done on this - by the State aid programme. We need to document a series of prerequisites for this programme, particularly as regards the size of the damage in relation to the total quantity cultivated. To conclude, with regard to the compensation due to weather phenomena, I would like to inform you that there is an attempt to cover all farmers affected by the frost farmers, and those under the ELGA regulation, but also those who, for some days, have been for producers whose crops ELGA covers until 15 January - and I am referring to Arta - do not fall under the regulation. Now, as to how this will be done, it will be with another financial instrument, through the attempt to reform the framework of state aid, but not with State aid, where people took their money four and five years later, but with methods, with time and rate ELGAs. This is another financial instrument, but the time to be compensated and those under the ELGA regulation. It is an innovation that we have made in the past, it is also a relationship of confidence that we have built with the Greek producer and that in this case, despite the increased size of disasters, following a directive by the Prime Minister itself, we will move in these directions. These producers will therefore also be included in the framework of aid and indemnities. I would like to say a few words, Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - for the second part, for the aid, either de minimis or any aid due to the consequences of the crisis. I would like to repeat that, so far, Greek producers have been given the primary sector throughout the country because of the loss of income from the koroni virus of around EUR 500 million, an amount equal to 1/4 of the basic aid received every year by our farmers. We know that the problem is a big one. We know that the consequences are continuing. This is a dynamic process. In the Ministry of Rural Development and Food we are working on every request submitted by the producers and requests for damages from the citrus growers from Arta. On the basis of a documented work, where the loss of income, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will always be documented within the limits of economic stamina, always within the budgetary tolerances that the country has, we are always approaching the issue in the direction of strengthening the people affected by their income. A similar job is being done for the issues you have raised with regard to your area's citrus growers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with number 711/19-4-2021 topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Let the unacceptable methods be stopped for the completion of the destructive Integrated Waste Management (OED) Active". The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. The question is indeed topical - and indeed very topical - regarding the auctioning of the municipal waste treatment plant, in which the Region of Attica proceeds directly with the tenders submitted on 29 April, on Thursday, when another Golgotha, the inhabitants of the wider region, begins. This is because it is attempting to complete the crime against the environment and people's health by installing waste treatment in the region of the Graphics, which includes a unit of mixed waste and a biowave unit. Undersecretary, anyone who reads the issue and the terms of the tender will find themselves in front of a monastery of unacceptable conduct, as the plant is auctioned as a mechanical processing plant, but then mutated with a bay in a non-existent bio-drying plant, which will lead to lower quality RDF fuel material or SRF for cement industries, intended for combustion that is environmentally and healthly dangerous and carcinogenic. It is also an illegal and arbitrary monastery, as the plant is auctioned without a legal decision approving environmental conditions. The tender documents invoke an 18-year-old approval decision which is something else. It is also a monarchy of squandering public resources, as it leads to a unit with a budget of three times the forecasts. The most important thing, however, regarding the inhabitants of the region, is that what is clear from the premeditated study of the EDNA and from the technical works in CYTA Phases A' and B, is that the ground is being turned - and transport and literally and literally - through a stream that is forbidden for the construction of such works - so that in the course of expansions and pavements a Gender-type HYES is formed. In order to understand this, then, and the most ignorant one is announced, another is auctioned, another is approved by environmental studies and another is what will eventually appear in the region as a project. The question is clear. What measures does the government intend to take - the answer to the region is unacceptable, why have our advisers also tabled such a question in the region - in order to stop this crime, Mr Secretary, who has raised up the legitimate protests of the people of the region and then continues?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u52	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I respect your sensitivity to a truly crucial issue. But let us look realistically at the big picture. The problem with the management of solid waste and waste across Greece, in what we tolerate every day by observing waste everywhere and bulk with uncontrolled wastewater, is not the integrated treatment sites. The problem for the environment is uncontrolled spaces, dumps and garbage everywhere, as they exist today throughout Greece. I know, because I come from self-government, that the delay in resolving the problem is largely due not to the method of solution or processing but to the placement, where the processing plant will be installed. We all agreed over time that we had to solve the problem. We all agreed on the processing method. Do you know where he'd always stop matters? When we chose the position, the reactions started. But you know we're not in Greece alone in the world. We see waste treatment plants even in towns. They're tested, no environmental problems and no residents' reactions. A characteristic example, a thermal treatment plant in Copenhagen. And not just. Therefore, my position is that it is crucial that we go to organised processing plants, of course by respecting and engaging in all the environmental aspects in order to protect it and finally solve the problem. As far as this is concerned, this unit in the Graphic, as you know, is provided by the 2016 Regional Waste Management Plan. You are aware that these regional plans are in a phase of processing and adaptation to the new more stringent requirements after the Ministerial Council's decision on waste management issues of 31 August 2020 with strict targets for 2020-2030 and with instructions given to all operators of waste management plans across Greece. The aim is to reduce the production of solid waste, to be able to do everything it takes for reuse and recycling and, after all these procedures, to go to landfill, 10% of the original quantity of mixed waste produced. These are basic principles for adaptation to Directive 2018/851 of the European Union and in accordance with the national waste management plan. You know that all this is controlled by special technical advisers from the European Union, DG REGIO, following exactly all these directives. With regard in particular to the subject you have raised, I will be absolutely specific to the comments you have made and to the concerns, as time passes. As far as the competitive process is concerned, because it is the study and construction of the project, you have also referred to it. All this will be checked during the tendering phase, but also in the manner and references to the processing itself. However, since time has passed, I will continue in my dentext in answering specifically your concerns. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u54	Good, Minister. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u55	Minister, as a party, we are dealing with the issue of waste management and approaching it perfectly realistically. The realism of your policy is the Gender HITA. That's where he drives. For 50 years it has been a health and environmental bomb in Attica that has been filled with cancer throughout the West Attica on the basis of official studies. And now this model is also intended to be transferred to Eastern Attica and in an area of high environmental importance with NATURA areas with the National Park of Spines a few kilometres souther and with an area right next to where a huge catastrophe occurred - this is the disaster in Matti - where even today there are loose ends with damaged, built-ups, forest maps, etc. This is the realistic illustration of the image. The question, therefore, is not a technical debate on methods - and, of course, a political conclusion arises - and it is clear what the Ministry intends to do - that is the question of a tender procedure which is a monument of arbitrary and unacceptable behaviour. They are violating these issues and this tender, Mr Secretary-General, even this environmental legislation - we say incompletely - that the governments have shaped over these years and over what I know are preparing and appeals by the local authorities and institutions of the region to justice. But I say again: the problem is not just legal or judicial. The problem is political. The problem is the policy that all governments have been implementing for years in the area of waste management and administrations in the Attica region and have led to the current situation, in today's intention, to say so, a dead end, so that we can then bring about solutions for dangerous types of combustion. To read you only from the contract what Article 8 says, which is the trick of the option, but to announce and auction further to finally make: "... Optionality for extension work or additional equipment according to the technical description as analysed in the tender documents of the project, for the purpose of adapting the unit to the requirements of the National Plan 2020-2030 with additional production of secondary fuel according to the technologies applied." That's your policy. What recycling? Your policy, which is reflected in the national plan, and which forms the basis for this installation in the Graphics, is a production of burning material - that is where it goes - to the cement industries or elsewhere with the so-called environmental and health hazards of the inhabitants. That is why, plus the environmental study that does not apply, plus a number of issues that we have developed, I tell you, Minister, stop this crime. Make an intervention, do not hide behind the district's attitude. To stop this crime now. The guards know. The people have done a lot of mobilisations and they know very well what is going to happen there and what the dangers are. Stop this crime. The HYTAS Race, while it should have been closed for years illegally, and now a second HYTAS is going to be built in East Attica. That is the problem realistically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, the image of the Tribal does not find honor to anyone. This picture, however, has evolved and arrived there you know why? Because this gross and uncontrolled situation, which we did not have the courage for the self-evident years to do interventions organized, because when we went to do organised intervention somewhere, there were reactions everywhere, it came to us to remain and to develop the image of the Race. We're not talking about a Gender image about the Graphic. On the occasion of the image of the Gender, we must not allow a similar image to be created anywhere and this image of the Gender to be closed. The opposite of what you say. You referred to environmental licensing. There is an environmental authorisation that has been renewed, amended in 2019 and in force until 2025. It's in effect. Observation first, with regard to the project budget - because you referred to your question - the 55 million project budgets are proportional to other tenders for similar projects in the rest of Greece and have been and evolved. As far as operating costs are concerned, because you refer to your current question, the cost is EUR 52,47 per tonne, after the project's evolution, 53,73 today. You mentioned the issue of energy use and the issue of placement as a reflection and fear, which I fully respect. There is no question of energy utilization and placement in the Graphics. Because all this is evolving and affecting planning - I say again, I respect the reflection - we have delayed making decisions and giving solutions to the problems, which is why we have reached the unacceptable images that have been multiplied. The aim is, at last, all of us, taking responsibility for us, to make a way out of this unacceptable image that has been multiplyed everywhere. In other words, we accept seeing garlic all over the street and when we go to organise with control and standard - things that we do not only do here in Greece, they do all over the world - we start reactions. My dear colleague, we cannot stand hostages of a bad past to make decisions and solve problems. This will all be judged in practice by all of us. But we don't do it again, first and foremost in the world. Many years ago, others have done so, without any problem, exempting from this unacceptable picture and, of course, from the destruction of the environment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u58	And we thank the Minister. We are now entering the fourth with No 709/19-4-2021 topical question by MP First Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The second death of a supermarket worker "SKLAVENITIS". The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the question of protecting the health and life of workers in the work of our party is a fundamental, central issue. Unfortunately, this is not the case for today and for the previous governments either, and you know that it is not a matter of emotional approach, it is a matter of political line, of strategy. It has not, therefore, been a long time - since the timely question of our party's question on the immediate measures to protect the health and life of workers, not even a long time ago, it has been - through March - been - from our written question on taking immediate measures to protect the health and life of workers in the supermarketing business of SKLAVENITIS and its consumers in Eucarpi, Thessaloniki. The company now counts the second - unfortunately - dead worker in this store, Eukarya, in Thessaloniki, this time by complication, due to a coronary, but it also counts too many ills, Minister, as a whole. Let us remember that in this store, which is big, is huge, works tens of workers and daily visits thousands of people from around the region. Nevertheless, in taking advantage of the provocative tolerance that the government still has today and after all, it refuses to take those essential measures to protect the health of workers and consumers. On the contrary, there are still, unfortunately, no fixed working doctors in such large workplaces, nor of course in warehouses or shops, while the shops where cases are found are not treated as they should, i.e. quarantine and extensively detailed information. The results, of course, are and are tragic. Increase in cases, increase in intubated, increase in death. Of course, a similar situation prevails a little - very much in all the big supermarket chains. This is not only a phenomenon which is found only in the supermarkets 'SKLAVENITIS', in all things. So we ask you, Minister, what immediate measures will your Government take to protect the health and life of workers and consumers, by finally obliging the company to implement those necessary measures and by controlling it strictly for that. And what measures has your Government taken to control this store by the health authorities and the Labour Inspectorate as to whether all necessary measures are complied with for the health and safety of workers, for the immediate closure, for the proper disinfection of the space, for the fourteen-day quarantine of workers, with the guarantee of their entire wages by the firm and for the official widest information, both of consumers and workers about the results of this investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u60	Good, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Delis, I am really grateful for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to address an issue that is really important. The government has repeatedly stressed the importance of the fundamental right to safety and health at work in the middle of a pandemic. Our duty and duty, particularly in this difficult period, are becoming even greater as our country, like the whole world, is experiencing the worst health crisis in the past 100 years. The government has, since the beginning of the pandemic, taken very concrete measures, especially for supermarket premises. In order to prevent and limit the spread of the coronary, inter alia: the limitation of one person per twenty-fifths of a supermarket shop, the maintenance of a distance of one and a half metres between persons inside the store and two metres while waiting in the funds, the existence of a standby marking on the floors of the corridors before the funds, the placement of protective plaques at the sites of the funds in order to protect employees and customers, the mandatory use of a mask, the disinfection of carotids and the restriction of the use of lifts. This is a series of measures that have been implemented since the pandemic principle, so supermarkets have never been considered by infectious agents as high-risk areas of coronary contamination. And we are talking about a sector in which there are forty-six businesses throughout the country with a total of two thousand seven hundred six branches and about eighty-eight thousand employees. Apart from the measures I have mentioned, the roadmap for employees' mandatory self-tests in the private sector is already in place, including, obviously, supermarkets and food and beverage shops. Workers subject to the mandatory self-tests are provided free of charge by the pharmacy on the basis of their AMKA and demonstration of the police identity. Mr Delis, dealing with the effects of pandemic on the whole spectrum of society and the economy, I think it is not for micropolitical controversy. I say this because sometimes deceptive approaches are being attempted - I confess not to your question - for the provision of the people of the OSCE to monitor the application of labour legislation, but also for the maintenance of health protocols at workplaces. I'll answer you with evidence. In 2020, the APRC inspectors carried out a total of fifty and six thousand two hundred forty audits and imposed fines totalling EUR 19,2 million. This year, in the first two months of the year, eight thousand and sixteen controls were carried out and seven hundred thirty - eight fines totalling 1,8 million euros were imposed. In addition, especially in the field of health and safety at work, the APRC has carried out since March 2020, i.e. when the pandemic started, by 31 March 2021, a total of 11 000 four hundred and seven hundred pandemic controls, and has charged seventy-six fines and three fifteen-day suspensions only for infringements of the legislative framework for preventing and limiting the spread of the coronary. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] With regard to supermarket branch controls, the Department of Safety and Health at Work of the RES has carried out three thousand eighty-three checks during the period from March to 12 April 2021 and forty-eight administrative penalties, i.e. fines, were imposed for alleged infringements. You claim that the APR does not carry out any checks on this operation. You're disgusting the evidence itself. Only in the first quarter of 2021, that is, this year, a hundred and eighty-nine checks were carried out on branches of this company. During this period the Labour Inspectorate checked almost half of its branches throughout Greece, eighty-nine of the four hundred two total branches. Time's up. In my dentext I will specifically refer to the checks carried out by the APRC in the specific store to which your question relates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. A brief comment on the theory of the Minister, and on what the government says, which is constantly claiming, that he has taken too many and very specific measures for workplaces. I would suggest that you read the announcements and complaints of the trade unions in Athens, Thessaloniki and all of Greece that disprove what you claim. You also said, and I was really surprised about the supermarkets. The supermarkets and their warehouses don't belong to the high-risk virus dispersal areas? Are we serious? So you think we should move on? Let's read the announcements. As for the controls and fines, even in these half-checks, half of this company's shops - I imagine the controls would be similar to those in the other stores - some fines were introduced. Do these fines not lead to the conclusion that the health protection measures are not being complied with? In any case, as I have said in the prototype, the situation is just as much - very much in all the big chains of supermarkets. The government has a great responsibility, Minister, for the provocative tolerance it shows in the very many cases where health measures are only for the eyes of the world in supermarkets and their warehouses. And that's how the virus breaks down in the workplace. After all, in the large workplaces, Minister, and in the public transport sector there are also the major outbreaks of the dispersion. And don't you make to the government that you don't understand. It is therefore the government's responsibility for the general hierarchy of cases in the workplace too - workers denounce these cases, their unions - and for the lack of traceability. It is also responsible for the government because its ears are continuously closed down in the complaints of unions about the dangerous real situation in the workplace and especially in their supermarkets and warehouses. It turns out that, as the trade unions themselves say, health protocols in workplaces were a great lie. And the government is responsible, Minister, for the nonexistent or rare controls - you have also confirmed this a moment ago - which are carried out by the inspection mechanisms of the Ministry of Labour and Health, since the workers themselves in the Labour Inspectorate's Chamber have also confirmed that they are unable to carry out checks at the workplace because of the situation in which their service is located. Is it possible to carry out systematic checks, when in Western Thessaloniki, Minister, the tens of thousands of workers, where the heart of the city's economic life is beating, the Labour Inspectors' College consists of seven employees? Is it possible in the West Attica SAR that there is only one vehicle, one car and twelve employees to check places where there are hundred and fifty thousand people working? Can you tell us how many checks were made and what fines and how many fines have been made and how many of them have been paid in such large spaces? It is therefore the government's responsibility and is accountable to the workers at risk and who even have their lives to manage the pandemic. And it has a responsibility because it is its choice, it is a government choice, to prioritise and in any way support the needs of business groups and, more generally, the capitalist economy. And what is the government's thanks to these people who were hypocritically calling them heroes at first last year and who had the supermarkets, warehouses, logistics? After SYRIZA abolishes Sunday's holiday, it makes them work thirty-two Sundays of the total fifty-two. Also, the New Democracy is now preparing to abolish both the eighth and restore the tenth that was in place until 1920, a hundred and a half years ago. A first answer, of course, will be given to the celebration of the Labour Day on May 6th. What, then, are the workers asking for, to conclude, Mr President, and I thank you for tolerance? They are demanding massive repeated tests from the EGE, however, from the state agencies and not the ball for the self-diagnosis self-diagnosis workers. They also demand quarantine where they need to be thoroughly informed, specialist health protection measures, working doctors. Yes, work doctors are necessary as ever in such large workplaces, particularly in warehouses and shops that gather too many workers. Minister, should the losses of coronary workers not be recognised as accidents at work given the occupational risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. In the beginning, I would like to begin by addressing a number of issues raised by Mr Delis relating to the question, not much more generally. In my own experience, too, because I happen to be shopping in supermarkets and in various parts of the world, I was very struck by the fact that these measures I mentioned earlier - that exhaustive list - I saw them being observed outright. Obviously, I haven't been to two thousand eight hundred shops all over the country, but at least what I went to, that's what I saw. Secondly, as far as 'hazardous' is concerned, I would say: 'hazardous' does not mean 'hazardous' myself. Besides, I'm not a doctor to say that. The Committee on Infectious Substances reports this. The third one you mentioned, which concerns the checks in half the stores, I will tell you that half the checks in the company were carried out in the first quarter of the year. Overall the checks carried out in the company are much more per year, judging by the data I see at the moment. The last thing I often see - and very densely in your arguments - is that there are many fines, 'A, look at many infringements', fines are being fined, 'A, there are not enough checks'. He can't be single - even lost. There must be a balance somewhere. And I think the APRC is doing its job. Does she need backup? We need to and we'll do it. But that's a different story. I should now come to the specific things you said. With regard to the specific store of SKLAVENITIS in New Eukarya, the relevant Department of Safety and Health of Thessaloniki carried out an audit on 5-1-2021 on compliance with the measures against the covid. General compliance with the requirements of the EGE legislation and Directives was established, while the written suggestions provided for concerned the absolute compliance with the procedures laid down in the approved case management protocol of the undertaking and, in particular, the implicitness of the carrying out of disinfection at the premises of the establishment where the cases were detected and the suspension of that operation until the time required by the disinfection company, as well as the submission of the workers of that establishment to periodic coronary detection examinations. The two hundred and fifty-five employees of the SKLAVENIT shop, New Eucarpia, are regularly subjected to preventive coronary diagnostic tests. In particular, from March 2, 2021, when the first confirmed case of covid-19 was detected on a worker at the store, until April 12, 2021, that is, within forty-two days, five diagnostic tests had been carried out each of which covered between two and two hundred and thirty-six persons. What further did the APRC review find out? It found that the necessary general decontamination of the store was carried out on the same day whenever a new case or cases of COVID -19 were detected - and a total of ten times over the above period - was not immediately decontaminated as defined in the EGE Directives and the company's confirmed case management plan, but at the end of the last shift. For this violation, as well as for the fact that the medical file of the deceased worker was not available during the re-check, the imposition by the AAR of administrative sanctions, i.e. fines on the company, is imminent. Mr Delis, there is already a process of compulsory self-esteem for workers in the private sector of the economy, and each employer is obliged to inform his or her employees of their obligation to undergo self-support and the consequences that will arise if the obligation is not met. If the employer fails to comply with the obligation to inform his employees by any appropriate means - i.e. either e-mail, sms, e-mail, communication, etc. - a fine of EUR 300 is imposed on the compulsory self test. If an employer who has not declared self-test results is found during the audit, a fine of EUR 500 per employee shall be imposed, and if an employer who has a positive self-test, either the first or the re-check, a fine of EUR 1,500 per employee shall be imposed. So I think the tools are enough. The work of the RDP must not be underestimated, and with the responsible attitude of all of us we hope that we will soon leave its pandemic and its consequences behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u66	The fifth is the question raised in number 714/19-4-2021 for the first time in the Greek Parliamentary of State Mr.Villiardos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Reimbursement of pensions to the insured of the Free Professional Insurance Organisation (OHIM) who have completed 15 years of work or other aid'. Mr. Villardos' timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Vassilis Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister, and thank you for your presence. I will repeat some of what I mentioned in my previous question for those who are listening, and also because they have not been answered or answered wrongly, in our view. For example, you said that you do not understand that the specific pensioner of the former OAU, whose letter I gave you, does not receive a pension for the elderly, when this pension is uninsured and not insured, while he was insured for for forty-three years. On this subject, the Ministry, on the basis of the regulations of the Ministry specialising in the legislation of Article 34 of Law No 4778/2021, launches the introduction of a temporary pension of EUR 384 for the large number of outstanding pensions, more than three hundred thousand, of course, main and subsidiary. However, we are aware that some classes of pension seekers have been excluded. Such a case is the free professionals of the former OAU, who were absorbed by EKA, on the basis of the provisions of DR 258/2005, because many of them had remained uninsured during the crisis. In particular, Article 11 of D 258/2005 refers to the end of the insurance relationship, such as the permanent cessation of occupation, the interruption of presidential insurance and bankruptcy. Therefore, due to the provisions relating to the OSCE and more than part of the OSCE before the memorandum crisis, our fellow humans cannot be retired because they may have been due or have ceased their retirement. And many of them, although they have completed the minimum pension years, are in high-age hostage status, while many are in serious financial problems. Following our recent question on this issue, which was discussed on 9 to 2021, you replied that you were moving under the existing provisions on the issue of pensions for insured persons, while you doubted that they did not receive any assistance. Unfortunately, however, what we have mentioned is that, apart from retirement, they cannot receive an old age pension. In this regard, there is a relevant publication, which I will present in the Minutes and which is in agreement with us, "AGEAN". Since technically they are considered insured and not uninsured to receive the retirement pension, our questions here are as follows: Are you intending to introduce a regulation, change the MR 258/2005, in order to receive a pension for members of the former GNI who have ceased the payment of contributions for any reason, but have completed the threshold of 15 years? Secondly, how do you plan to strengthen these elderly people who have been in a bad economic position and cannot receive a pension due to legislative obstacles until the issue is resolved? And a clarification here. Are we not sure whether Article 2 of Mr Hatzidakis' amendment last night covers certain OAU insured persons who might be eligible for OGA status, or whether Article 6 gives them the right to an old age pension if there are debts below EUR 20,000 in general or EUR 6 000 for OGA? If, in other words, they could be insured for a short period of time with EVA in order to establish an old age pension right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u68	Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Villardo, first of all - I wanted to say in relation to the specific case you mentioned to me, and you wrote to me last time that I gave it to the Ministry's services and examine it. I haven't got any answers yet. I'll contact you when I have one. You are returning to an issue that you have raised here in the House last time in the context of the timely question under number 635, for the possibility that the candidates of the former OSCE will be able to obtain the newly drafted advance. I had then explained all the criteria for granting the advance, which relate, on the one hand, to the fulfilment of the conditions for granting a principal pension and, on the other, to the existence or not of any debt to the insurance funds. As I said in my previous reply, the advance payment is a purely relief measure, which is trying to tackle temporarily the consequences of the problem created by the stacking of outstanding pensions. It does not change the statutory pension award provisions at all, and this is simply a fundamental state concern towards citizens who have, in fact, been afflicted. In relation to your current request for legislation, in order to obtain a pension, since the members of the OSCE have completed fifteen years of insurance, I should first like to describe the status quo. In accordance with the provisions in force, the insured persons of the former AIFM may receive a pension for old age irrespective of the date of their insurance, by supplementing the sixty-seventh year of their age, provided that they have at least fifteen years of insurance and their debts to the CERD do not exceed EUR 20,000. If they do not meet these criteria and do not wish to settle their debt to the ECA, I did not say that they were taking them automatically. That is what I said last time and there was this misunderstanding, which was also mentioned by the journalist you said. I said that they have the possibility of making use of the benefit of uninsured overtime, which is obviously an innovative allowance, with specific age and income criteria. As regards your first question, I would like to say that what you are making as a request is already happening, namely, all the insured persons to whom it relates can receive their pension in normal, since, of course, the conditions that I have mentioned are met. With regard to the issue of the debts of the candidate pensioners, to whom you are coming back, let me begin by mentioning the change that has been made just this week, with the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour to the permitted ceilings on debts. In particular, the authorised limit of debt to the EBRD, in order to obtain a pension for the insured person, was EUR 20,000 for the OAU, EUR 15 000 for the former EBRD and EUR 6 000 for the former OGA, while the limit for the self-employed, i.e. doctors, lawyers, engineers, will also be simplified by the EUR 20,000 for the former OGA. In other words, the distinction in capital of EUR 14 000 is abolished and increases or fines of EUR 6 000, which obviously includes larger categories of beneficiaries in this possibility and facilitates the insured and obviously also covers some of the insured persons of the AIF, to whom you have referred. In other words, in accordance with the new arrangement, the pension shall be paid, where the total amount due by the insured person to the ELTIF from any type of insurance, from the recognition of fictitious time and additional charges and other charges, does not exceed EUR 20,000, without distinctions in the preceding provision. Furthermore, let me also note something that changes with the recently adopted amendment and also helps many debtors and candidate pensioners to settle their debts, which I have mentioned for a long time and in my answer to your previous question. The problem is addressed as a result of the delay in recording the insurance contributions owed by professionals who had applied at first stage on the EKKA platform to join the regime of the hundred and twenty instalments of Law 4611/2019, extending the deadline for the submission of the application to the second stage, on the CRL platform this time, until 30-9-2021, compared to the previous deadline set for 30-4-2021. In my denture I will return to the general issue of the management of overdue debts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Mr. Villard, you have the floor. Make an effort to keep the three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister, although you are not sounding well, but I will see that, of course, then better understood what you have said. It was not explained in the original question, because the national pension is not even assigned to seventy thousand free-traders because of the OSCE's debts, even those who have over 20,000 euros - and they are entitled to a pension - since they have all paid, twenty others, twenty-five and thirty-five years of insurance. It is therefore necessary to pay one-off sums of EUR 5,000 or 10,000, and even within a two-month period, with the threat that, if two months have elapsed since the adoption of the debit act, everything will be lost if this is not done. In addition, their debts account for the amount of medical care, but they were not allowed to make use, which is certainly unfair and must be corrected. In other words, these amounts have to be deducted from their debt, since they have not been used. The Citizens' Counsel has studied the problem precisely and has sent proposals to the responsible political leadership that solve all the relevant outstanding issues even better, without harming either side, given that until the crisis many have paid over the minimum of fifteen years. The most serious of these proposals is the increase in the debt limit and their retention from the monthly pensions of the beneficiaries, with a sufficient number of instalments, so that these pensioners can survive. In addition, there are many cases of beneficiaries waiting for their pensions to be granted two and three years from the request for extradition, which means retrospectively from the ECA two-three years after the date on which the pension application was lodged. The pensioner’s debt is often higher than that owed by the potential pensioner. Instead of offsetting the debts of the two sides, there are threats by the EVC to exclude the beneficiaries from any pension entitlement if the above sums are not paid out by the pensioners within two months of the award. Our questions here are as follows: First, how do you plan to solve the problem as a whole with the outstanding pensions of the former OSCE, especially for that? Will you apply the proposals of the Citizens' Counselor on this matter to receive a pension for those who have completed at least the minimum years of insurance? Secondly, do you intend to propose compensation for debts to the OAU, at least in cases where pensions are outstanding for two to three years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Villarde, what is the basic principle of our pension? I pay contributions, I retire, according to certain specific rules. This is a basic principle. If in the end I haven't covered these rules, and I have debts, what does the legislator say in Greece? Are these debts low? I'm starting to pay you pension, and I'm doing some retention on that path. Are the debts high? Come on in and set it up. The regulation is very favourable. We're talking about a hundred 20 doses. We've been talking for five years later. Not even that? In relation to this latter, I would like to reiterate once again that the insured persons of the insurers who have been insured in the ECA have and have the possibility, if they so wish, to regulate their debts in favour of the insurance funds on the basis of both the general and the specific rules governing the debts in force. The possibility of withholding these debts in part from the pensioner’s pension is also equivalent. In accordance with the provisions of Law 4611/2019 for applications for retirement from 1-10-2019, the debt is offset or withheld by the amount of the pension in equal monthly instalments which can reach up to sixty, i.e. five years. Previously, I said for a hundred twenty doses, and I spoke for five years. Wrong. Ten years are these doses. He's saying that. All this, Mr Villarde, let me say that it is not a legislative obstacle, as you say in your question. Debts, age limits and totals cannot be presented in the public debate as minor technical issues. It is up to them to observe the very viability of our insurance system, whose chronic illnesses we all know in here. For the categories of insured persons mentioned in your question, everything you make as questions already applies. I hope that the reason we are holding this debate is not to discuss the usefulness of the very criteria for granting pensions. It is clear, I think, that especially at the moment we are, with the pandemic present for over a year, the state obviously has to help the most vulnerable, but it has done everything in advance to ensure that the necessary resources are received. The very viability of our insurance system depends on the payment of contributions. As long as the benefits of the consistent payment of contributions are not paid to the citizens, the deficits of our insurance system will be increased and hence the needs of support from the state budget will be increased, namely from all taxpayers. I think that is not something we want in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u74	Then we will discuss the sixth question with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs No 706/19-4-2021 on the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Return of the contribution of the solidarity of pensioners to the pensioners of the State after the irrevocable call of the Court of Auditors' plenary ruling'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns the return of the solidarity levy for pensioners, which had been introduced by the emergency measures. We have two Court of Auditors decisions. The first one is February 10, 2017, as a result of a model trial. Its result is a decision which says that there is no reason for pensioners to be troubled by submitting individual applications to the Court of Auditors, but the State must ensure that, first and foremost, it stops withholding and, secondly, that it returns the sums to pensioners. The Citizens' Counselor comes in 2018 and sends to the then competent Deputy Minister of Finance this decision with his opinion, which is identical to the Court of Auditors' decision and the Court of Auditors' plenary comes with its 504/2021 irrevocable decision to adopt and repeat what was decided in 2017 and further says that this provision is unconstitutional, because it has not been incorporated into the great reform of 4387/2016, so it is considered that these amounts have been illegally withheld. And, of course, it takes a decision until 31 December 2018, because until then it had applications which it examined. About the theme 1-1-2019 and then it refers to the Third Department. Here, then, the Ministry must tell us what is its plan to implement these Court of Auditors' decisions, to plan for the reimbursement of money, how long it is thinking of returning this money, how long it will be, and, of course, when it will be, when it will bring the regulation to an end to this unconstitutional retention which is being done to the pensioners of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, your question gives me the opportunity to address an issue that indeed has many dimensions. The solidarity contribution of pensioners was imposed by the government at the time on all pensioners, public and private sectors, on 1-8-2010 and is valid until now. During the period when this levy was imposed the fiscal deficits were extremely high, the capital markets were closed for our country and in order to avoid unscrupulous bankruptcy, the government of the country had signed a few months earlier the first memorandum. To a large extent, budget deficits are fuelled by deficits in the insurance system. To raise these deficits, both pension cuts and structural reforms were made within the framework of all three Memorandums. Of course, cuts met the incomes of all Greek households, pensioners and not. In fact, available scientific studies and findings from international organisations show that income reductions have been proportionally lower in household incomes with a retired leader than in other households. The available proportional studies indicate that long-term insurance deficits will be reduced to reasonable levels. However, at the moment we are talking, a very large, if not most of the pensions paid are not from workers' contributions, but from the state budget, i.e. from taxpayers. Among the measures taken to limit the deficits of the insurance system were the contribution of pensioners, which is applied progressively to total pension earnings of more than EUR 1,400. In other words, it concerns the top of the distribution of pensioners. By Decision No 244/2017 of the Court of Auditors on the occasion of a retired judiciary and the similar content of Decision No 32/2018 on the occasion of a retired military regime, it was considered unconstitutional to impose the solidarity levy on retired persons at the expense of public pensioners. The Court of Auditors also ruled in the first of these decisions that the results of the constitutionality had to apply from the publication of that decision on 8-2-2017. In its recent decision, on 504/2021, the Court of Auditors’ Plenary Assembly ruled that it was contrary to the Constitution to submit the contribution of pensioners' solidarity for the period from 1-1-2017 to 31-12-2018. The legal consequences resulting from the above decisions of the Court of Auditors are currently the subject of a study by the services of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and also the ECA. Mr Kegeroglu, we are well aware that under Article 95(5) of the Constitution the administration is obliged to comply with judicial decisions. That is what the rule of law demands, and that is what the government is doing, but always taking into account the country's financial possibilities, which has been done several times over the last decade. Let us not forget that, in the midst of a pandemic and the following significant increase in public debt due to economic support measures in 2020, the government, while respecting the judiciary crisis of the Council of State, that is, respecting the rule of law itself, has made a budgetaryly brave decision in every respect with the benefit of more than a million retired both private and public pensioners. In other words, it paid old and new retrospectives of over 1.4 billion euros, awarded by decisions of the Council of State, which considered the cuts in the main pensions to be unconstitutional, in line with the judgments of the Supreme Court of the country. I shall return more specifically to the consequences of the Court of Auditors' decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have made a historical regression even though I have referred to it. The budgetary reasons for which the solidarity levy was imposed certainly existed in 2010, but today, in 2021, we are discussing the implementation of two clear decisions of the Court of Auditors and, as the Ombudsman says, it is necessary for the government to take the appropriate steps to comply with the case-law of the administration, namely to suspend this detention from the monthly pension for pensioners. It's unconstitutional, but you go on and hold her. That's the first. And the second is that it must in reasonable time and not whenever the state commits itself to seeing the compliance programme in the second part concerning return as unjustified. They are unjustified after the second month of 2017, all these amounts with the Cocoa of the Court of Auditors, as well as with developments. In August 2018, the country came out of the memoranda. It is in a financial position to pre-pay its obligations to the IMF. This is the greatest proof that there is no financial problem. All that we experience with pandemic is covered with resources, which are a surplus and, of course, with the support of the European Union and the Recovery Fund and flexibility from the resources of the NRP. So, if there was something you should have supported, I think that was put before the Council in the plenary and the Court of Auditors. Today is not a conversation. You need to focus, according to cash and the possibility, on the timetable for the implementation of decisions and reimbursements, and not on whether they should be repaid or not. We don't even think we're entitled to talk about this. I will present this letter to you, the conclusion, the Citizens' Counselor and the reminder he made in 2018 to the Greek Minister of Finance's decision for 2017. Of course, the Minister bought a field at that time, who could say that in April 2018 we were still in memorials - I repeat, in April 2018. But, today, after the 2021 plenary ruling, which is irreversible and quite clear, you must draw up the timetable for the repayment of the money. See who's coming back. See if it's a matter of subsidiary. In addition to the 500 million clearly concerned with the main pensions of civil servants, we also have about 300 million ancillarys. Are they involved or not? That's a question. Also, see immediately the interruption. Why don't you interrupt it immediately? Why don't you stick to the interruption immediately? All right, in the budget you say I will see how I return them, depending on the cash available. Stop holding up, why don't you? Now, after Easter. Tell her before Easter to have a revoltable news for people. This is what I want, Minister, to talk less about the general social security system, which we cannot discuss every time when we have individual issues, but when we have a bill or any legislative initiative by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, as I mentioned in my prototype, with the payment of EUR 1.4 billion retrospectively, the government made an expenditure that really reached the limits of the country's budgetary potential in the midst of a pandemic and, above all, with a higher public debt on its back. The state must keep budgetary balance and maintain reserves. It does not work vacantly but must take into account the economic situation in which the country is situated. The famous principle of proportionality always takes into account the circumstances in order to determine the necessity and appropriateness of the instrument in relation to the purpose pursued by the legislator. The government has, in fact, shown that it respects the courts, respects the job partisans, devours the difficulties. At the same time, however, it must respect and ensure that the unemployed, both for our workers and for our children and grandchildren, for the future generations, for the whole economy that is successfully facing so many challenges. You realise very well that the new data resulting from the Court of Auditors' decisions will be examined carefully both by the Ministry of Labour and, above all, by the relevant Ministry of Finance, that would in the end finance it. The Government must approach the interests of the insured, the sustainability of the insurance system and the financial needs from the point of view of the general interest of the Greek people, from the point of view of social justice and from the point of view of an integrated development model in the country. In this context we will carefully consider the recent decision of the Court of Auditors and will obviously take the necessary steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u82	The seventh question under number 712/19-4-2021 will now be discussed in the second half of the House and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Mobilisation of all contract workers in the fields of cleanliness and preservation of primary health care structures (PVO) of the 5th Health Region (YPE)". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the timeless, conscious deception and abandonment of all the governments of primary health care result in huge shortcomings, huge gaps in staff of all specialists, nurses, managers, respectively assistants, but also in services such as cleanliness, care and others. A characteristic example of this policy is the workers in the areas of cleaning and keeping the health centres and local health units of the 5th Health Area of Thessaly and Central Greece. So for the forty-seven health centers and the sixteen local health units of the 5th Health Region were hired - they took over - at the end of 2019 and at the beginning of 2020 by a fixed-term contract - eight months, i.e. - about a hundred and twenty-three workers for the needs in the cleansing and storage of these health units. Subsequently, a four-month extension of their contracts was granted until the end of 2020 and again, by Genares, a six-month extension, i.e. until 30-6-2021, when their contracts expire. It is understandable that not only do the number of workers who cover real needs of primary health care units in the 5th Health Region, but also in the face of the question of ending their contracts are faced with labour, of course, insecurity, uncertainty. And much more than June, and after their contracts expire, they will lead to unemployment. The questions, Mr President, are therefore, if the Minister intends, that the Government should simulate these contractors in the areas of the cleanliness and preservation of the health centres and local health units of the 5th Health Region, but that it should also cover all needs in these areas of safekeeping and cleanliness with all the necessary additional staff with a permanent and stable working relationship. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Kontozamanis, Deputy Minister for Health will answer. Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, let me begin by stressing once again that every health worker has an important role to play. In no case will we leave the health structures and the health centres to which you refer without the necessary and necessary services, such as those you have said, safekeeping and cleanliness. Let me remind you that more than twenty thousand contractors are today strengthening the National Health System. It is clear that everyone can't be permanent from one day to the next. We have made it clear from the very first time we took over the country's rule and, above all, the outbreak of the pandemic that our priority is to cover the vacancy of nursing staff in the National Health System. Surely the services, as I said, cleanliness, guarding and feeding, employ a significant number of contractors. And it is clear - I repeat - that these auxiliary services are necessary for the smooth functioning of these structures and the staff employed in them should work in a clear and secure context. And this framework we are trying as a state to ensure. I would also remind you that the AS contract that serves in these areas you mentioned has been extended to ensure continuity in the services it offers. Of all the measures that we have taken so far, it is clear that we are giving solutions, we are making sure that there are no problems in the area of cleanliness and storage in all health establishments, and we are examining all the proposals, the appropriate solutions that are in place, in order to ensure, as I said, the smooth functioning of health systems and the uninterrupted provision of these health services. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u86	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, of course, the part has to do with the general, in the sense of the specific issues raised by the topical question, namely the workers in the 5th Health Region who were recruited as contractors and their contract ends on 30 June. So these workers will be out of work. We on the basis of parliamentary control and through this question we want the government to commit that these hundred and twenty workers, for example, will continue to work, as we say, on permanent and stable work, and much more so that all these units, I mean health centres and local health units - I told you and the numbers, you know them - are very back to needs for cleanliness and storage. For you will see that in the second, the six-month extension of 2021, of the hundred twenty-workers who were in the original contract, now only ninety-three have left. The others left for a number of reasons. I don't know what happened. They're much less now. Therefore, the number of workers is very far back in relation to the requirements and needs of these primary health care units in the 5th Health Area. At the same time, in these areas additional staff need permanent and stable work, as we say. Besides, the needs are stable and concern all 24 hours. If you make a division, you'll see that we're talking about an employee. A health care centre will be kept and another will have cleanliness and similarly. So, it's way behind needs. Of course you mentioned a large number, you spoke of twenty thousand contractors. The state has to give NATO ECU 4.5 billion. For health, and in the midst of a pandemic, doesn't he have any money to get workers? And you know now, I'm talking about the organisms, about what the health workers have also indicated in all previous years, that, based on the vacant positions that exist, the needs of doctors in the public health system are six to seven thousand and twenty, twenty-five thousand nurses, not to mention the rest of the staff. Therefore, with contractors, of course, the problems are not dealt with. However, this is'stick', of course, in the implementation of a specific policy both by your Government and by the previous governments, which you consider public health costs to the state. This is the reason why the public health units, hospitals, primary health care, particularly in these pandemic conditions for a year ago, have been faced with enormous and tragic deficiencies in permanent staff, but also in state resources. Let me remind you here of the 90 million cut in the 2021 budget for primary health care. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] So this is an image which, in the midst of a pandemic, puts our people in an even more tragic and dangerous situation and in enormous physical dangers, because it can, for example, be the Prime Minister yesterday, if I am not mistaken, present a 'roadmap' of the New Democracy Government, but what it confirmed was the government's refusal to actually shield all levels of public health, primary and secondary, since vaccination alone, which you know very well, cannot and is unable to give the final answer to the pandemic. Faced with this situation that our people are experiencing in the midst of pandemic, but also with the policies that are being put forward for the next period, for the next period, we say that the people themselves need to shape their own 'roadmap', so that they do not pay again the 'broken' of the new crisis, while at the same time claiming the satisfaction of their own modern needs against the strategy of the government, the European Union and capital. And you can be sure that a first answer will, of course, be given on May 6, to the workers' strike. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u88	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, I would first like to respond to what you said about health expenditure during the pandemic period. The government has lost no money in managing the pandemic so that we can manage this pandemic as effectively as possible, effectively - and efficiently using resources, of course. We have exceeded the EUR 900 million that the state health budget has now been allocated in recent years to deal with this difficult situation in the pandemic. I said that all workers need, of course, because there are fixed and permanent needs in the system and we need to put priority in it. We have said that our priority is nurses, as we have stressed. I would remind you that when we took over the country's governance, we have been faced with a mixed employment scheme in this category of workers, services from private workshops, fixed-term contracts, ancillary staff. All this, of course, makes it difficult to resolve the issues of this sector. I would therefore like to repeat once again that the institutional employment framework for this staff must be clear and clear - we are working in this direction - and other categories of staff, not just that of guarding and cleaning. In any case, every worker - I stress - has his own role in the health system and we clearly recognise that. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u90	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-23-S1-commons.u91	With the consent of the House, 11.52' of the sitting shall be closed. I wish everyone and all good Easter as long as we can.
