ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Maria - Alexandra Head, MP Ioannina, the following:]] MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH [[Let the page in. 1 au 1 a]] B. REQUESTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the legislative work, let me first make two announcements to this House. Firstly, the Standing Committees on Production and Trade and National Defence and Foreign Affairs submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "To modernise, simplify and reform the regulatory framework of public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions on development and infrastructure." Secondly, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Shipping and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 2-3-2021: "Greece in motion: Sustainable Urban Mobility - Micromobility - Arrangements for modernising, simplifying and digitising the procedures of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". From what I can see, Mr. Bukoros is here, Mr. Mamoulakis is here, Mr. Katrinis is missing, Mrs. Manolakos is here, Mr. Villiardos is here, Mr. Brutsis and Mr. Tsakalotos is here. Not everyone is but, in any case, we can start and I imagine that we will be supplemented so that we do not delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u3	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u4	What do you want, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u5	I would like to speak on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u6	But the procedure hasn't started yet...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "To modernise, simplify and reform the regulatory framework of public procurement, special procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security, and other provisions on development and infrastructure". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 February to discuss the draft law at two meetings, one on principle, articles and amendments. As regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed at today's first meeting, with the exception of the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, to participate in the debate on two courses of speakers with a natural presence, as well as two circles of speakers with a teleconference via the Webex platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following analogy: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one of the other parties, one from each party, Change Movement, KKE, Greek Solution, Mera25. Then, at tomorrow's meeting, two speakers are proposed to participate in the discussion in a natural presence, as well as a circle of speakers who will participate in this debate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. Each cycle will consist of twelve speakers with the same ratio as I mentioned before. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I put it in terms of the basic procedure. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u9	Here you go, Mr. Brutsi. What would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, thank you very much. It is one of the rare cases that I am intervening on a point of order, but you know, Mr President, from your experience, that dialogue within Parliament is not independent of the current situation, as is being conducted outside Parliament as well. Yesterday, a Member of Parliament, Mr. Dritsas in particular, with a provocative and indiscriminate statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u11	That is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u12	It has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u13	No connection to the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u14	But I'm interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u15	But you are taking the floor for three minutes to raise an incidental issue and not on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u16	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u17	I have a unanimous decision on the procedure, which means - and we do not start well - that if a representative from the other parties asks the floor on the subject you are asking, I am obliged to give it on a par with one another. Here, then, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u18	I'm starting again at the beginning in the three minutes you give me. The debate that has been taking place in Parliament, as you well know for years with your experience, is not independent of the debate that is taking place in public dialogue and outside Parliament. Yesterday, a Member of Parliament, Mr Dritsas in particular, with an unscrupulous and unprecedented statement, let it be understood - he said clearly - that the criminal gang of the killers of 17 November did not terrorize Greek society and the world. In fact, she did mean, justifying her in a way, that the murder activities concerned the specific right-wing political area. These have no precedent, Mr President. The Qualified Opposition, SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras in particular, ought to respond to this unrelenting statement. He also had to come here, give clarification, not roam on the channels, say that his statement was corrupted, putting the blame elsewhere. His statement was specific. It sounded in the pan-Hellenic. It is not disputed by anyone that he clearly said what he believed and thought he was right. Instead of this deafening procedure, SYRIZA had to answer a statement to Parliament today. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative is here. His right is to answer, justifying Mr. Dritsa or denouncing Mr. Dritsa, or not answering at all. That is why, Mr President, I raised this issue because it is an insult to the democratic institutions, to the dozens of victims of 17 November, to the criminal gang of the murderers, to this side of the New Democracy, to democracy, to the House, to the Greek people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u19	Would you like to take the floor, Mr. Chakatte? Here, you have three minutes, too, if you need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, when you go down to the house or down and down and down and down and down, you get to the cellar and you think you can't go down there, there's always a Mr. Brutsis knocking down a tack. Mr. Brutsis wants to create impressions. If he was honest, he would say what happened, that he did this statement, and then he did a second, where he clarified what he meant. This is a debate in Parliament, that we take the arguments, the counter-problems, we try to understand what someone meant and we do not ignore when it makes a clarification. Mr President, all the versions of the Left, the Communist and Social Democratic Party, have a very clear place on the issue of terrorism for the entire post-government period. He's so clear, I don't think he can be misunderstood unless you have Mr. Brutsi hitting you under the cellar that we can go further down, go even further down the conversation than he already is. I think the Left, as I said, of all versions, has proved what it needs and is always a front against terrorism. But, as Mr Tsiaras and Mrs Bakoyannis and the people of culture have said, that is another thing that does not apply the laws. That is another thing to tell the prisoners that they have no rights. That is the important thing, that is what Mr Brutsi does not want to talk about and he will have great responsibility if this lack of flexibility and understanding, that the laws are for everyone, and as Mrs Bakoyannis said, when we say about everyone, we mean for everyone, it comes here to create impressions. It is now enough with this categorization that Mr Brutsi best represents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u21	The Change Movement isn't someone. Mrs Manolakou, although Mr. Karathanasopoulos is representative, but because he is not here, do you want to say two words or do you not want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u22	I would like to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u23	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u24	Kufontina's theme is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u25	We're not talking about the Koufantina thing. We're talking about Mr. Dritsa's statement. This issue has arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u26	For Mr. Dritsa's statements, he was referring to this matter. It's done politically, morally, legally. He's been convicted. To come back to talk and a vacant confrontation, we do not agree. Most of all, however, we condemn, on the basis of this, that electronic accounts are frozen, even newspaper publications, which means that we are being restricted to freedoms. Yesterday, the JRC press office made a announcement, and everyone here must have their ears and eyes open, because they are at the expense of the people and against the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u27	All right, let's move on with Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, thank you very much. The last thing Mrs Manolakou said to say is that there is a restriction on other issues, namely when you are on the Internet on national issues or anything else, it has a cut-off. So we see the restriction in general, not only in what is of interest to us, a card, if the subject matter is such, especially in such difficult times for the Greeks out there, the Greeks and the Greeks, our fellow citizens, who are suffering. But let's go later. Mr President, there is a law and the law must apply to everyone. The law is law and law, for example for pediatricians, serial killers, drug dealers, all of them, are lifelong. It should be real life. As Constantine Karamanlis had said, the first, who was the man of national reconciliation, said that life must be life. Mr President, you know, the oxymomile is that the one who has chosen to die in a certain way - let it be a hunger strike or I don't know what else, he has made a choice - the one who chooses to die in this way has deprived eleven people of the right to choose how they would like to die or salute this in vain world. So this is all a little strange, Mr President, and we really have to stand up to the circumstances. And what happens every day, apart from being a health bomb - that is to say with all of us locked in our homes, citizens, shops closed down, and every day we have marches, every three and a little, here we have a huge dispersion, a daily health bomb - but most importantly it is to take on all our responsibilities and realize that out there on a daily basis can be fermented, that the new terrorists or the new anarchists are being swollen up in the future. Attention, Greece has major problems, national issues, economics, health issues, huge issues, and now we are dealing with a terrorist, unrepentant murderer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for just thirty seconds, I will make a very specific statement. No one disputes that Dimitris Koufantinas was convicted of the crimes he committed. That's why he's in jail anyway. No one also talks about his acquittal or his heroism. What we are talking about is a basic task and a duty for democracy, which is to apply the principles of law. We're a rule of law. If we want to remain, we must respect the rights of the detainees who have been sentenced and no one is justified and is not present in their crimes. We are, however, in agreement with the need to respect the rights and rights of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u31	Just a word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u32	No, Mr. Brutsi, the incident is over. We're entering the bill. It's too big. Although Mr. Katrinis wasn't in the Chamber, so that I wouldn't start complaining, would you like to make a double-minute position, like all of us, Mr. Katrin?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u33	Look, Mr President, a matter arises here. We have an unrepentant murderer, which is currently at risk of the entire political system and the whole country turning it into a hero, firstly, with the oligopoly and the rigid attitude of the government, and secondly, with the unacceptable and unrepentant statements such as that made by Dricas yesterday, which was obviously forced to withdraw, to correct, because SYRIZA also understood that these statements, not only do not help pass a message that the political system as a whole is against terrorism and expressors, especially when they are unrepentant, but in these circumstances, which are socially acidification conditions, I think we all need to be very careful. We have said that we want the law to be implemented. We believe in the rule of law, we believe in rights. We do not think that a Western democracy can be tolerated at the moment and that there is no such procedure at the same time to eliminate the scope of the law of the rule of law and of the legal order. But the most important thing is that there is a risk - and we see many incidents, on the other hand, of violent actions, unfolding - of all this work which is being done or of tolerance on the other hand to lead to uncontrolled situations. And to God, we must not allow these terrorist, criminal behaviours to regain glorious glory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u34	The New Democracy's general rapporteur, Mr Christos Boukokoros, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed discussing a very important bill. We have heard the parliamentary representatives. I would just say, and I would like to make an appeal: when we talk about cases that have killed this country for decades, which have caused pain and victims, we should all be more careful in our approaches. I am entering the bill directly, because it is indeed an important bill, one of the many things that the government has brought, but it also has a very crucial role at this time. Public procurement law, ladies and gentlemen, is a very dynamic sector, which is constantly being called upon to change and adapt to the conditions of the market and the economy. Public procurement, beyond the budgetary dimension to meet the needs of the state, also has a major development dimension. Because supplies of goods - services and construction of public works stimulate the economy itself, that is, they have this development dimension. Also, public procurement, if you like, is a tool for absorbing European funds and other structural funds. In view of this assumption, ladies and gentlemen, the Timing of the Government's decision to bring this bill now is explained. Why now is reforming the institutional framework of Law 4412? We are heading, if everything goes well, towards the end of the pandemic, in front of us lies the Recovery Fund. We all know the sizes, there has been a lot of discussion. The government's proposals have been tabled. So this tool, this receptor, which will help to absorb and exploit these large funds, had to be adapted to the needs of the time, as the law of public procurement always does, and especially had to be flexible for Greece now, so that we could use these resources. So the bill aims at speed, flexibility and greater transparency, and I will explain below with these provisions. How did this bill come in today's plenary? Two ministries, involving top lawyers, university professors, economists, engineers and public administration actors, have discussed it and worked it out thoroughly in the last seven months. In other words, a very good advance has been made. There was a public consultation with about five hundred pages, comments from the citizens, many of whose comments were incorporated into the bill, and there was a very good level of processing and discussion at the four meetings of the Production and Trade and Defence Committees, due to the co-responsibility for the public procurement of the Ministry of National Defence. In fact, there has been a lot of legislative improvements and an exchange of views and arguments. We also had a withdrawal of an article, and we also had changes calling for major sectors of the economy and scientific institutions. Thirty bodies have come to our committees, ladies and gentlemen, and have tabled proposals for real, many of which have been heard. However, comments from the opposition parties have also been heard and we will see today a series of legislative improvements. And, of course, as we speak and describe the bill, I should like to begin with the remark on secondary legislation, because I have listened to colleagues from the Opposition saying that some seventy-seven delegated acts are needed, namely ministerial and joint ministerial decisions. Let us say that Law 4412, which is reshaped by the bill under discussion, provided for an extradition of about one hundred and ten delegated acts, of which some thirty were eventually adopted, which means that for good legal practice many of those delegated acts adopted are included in today's bill. Today's bill also has a part-time implementation in the first place. In other words, it will enter into force on 1 June and for projects and their implementation will take effect from 1 September of this year. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that the relevant ministries have all year round, to issue the necessary secondary legislation, so that the bill is fully operational. We must now go to more specific things and say that, as far as public procurement for the purchase is concerned, the thresholds are increased: in terms of services and goods, from 20,000 to 30,000, and in terms of projects, from 40,000 to 60,000. This, if you wish, meets the needs created by the pandemic age and the wider needs, especially from the point of view of small authorities that assign projects, such as local authorities, regions, etc. However, in return, the legislator increases the awarded contracts, as I have explained, from 20,000 to 30,000 and from 40,000 to 60,000, but at the same time imposes greater publicity on the respective registers and publish all the elements of these contracts from the amount of 30,000 to over. I think this brings forth a balance. From there on, a lot of talk was about public works. But before I come to that, I would like to point out that as far as the contracts relating to equipment, namely the Ministry of National Defence, are concerned, I saw a consensus in the committee debate. That is good, because we must make it easier for good reasons - which are not currently explained - for supplies of armaments, for strengthening our national defence, for strengthening the country's deterrent power. And that's what's going on with these conventions. It comes to institutionalise programming and ensure the rapid implementation of these contracts concerning the Ministry of Defence. The main criteria for options at this point of the draft law on contracts in the defence sector, the criteria for these provisions to come, were the treatment of identified problems, the restoration of the balance between the requirements of the contracting authority and the modern market conditions and public administration. I would point out, for the second time, that in these articles concerning the Ministry of National Defence, I saw a consensus, either clear, with the position of MPs from other parties, or a consensus that is silent. In public works there were a number of objections and there were several comments. The top one we were concerned with was Article 53 of the bill for the private supervisory body. And the criticism we heard from the opposition was concentrating on the popular saying "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks". But let's see: Is it like this or is it different? First of all, this is not something unprecedented in the country. Since 2017, SYRIZA has drawn up and legislated the Register of Private Engineers, Entities and Law Entities and Private Persons, who, according to the FEK, would participate in the management of public works. It is therefore not our government that will implement this register. It will, however, take advantage of it for the private supervisory bodies. Secondly, this is not an unprecedented issue in the country, because all PPP projects (public and private partnership) and all concession projects are made with independent private engineers selected by the contractors and approved by the State. And the projects we are talking about, the PPPs and concessions, are important projects in the sense of size, in the sense of quality and in the sense of speed. And they are projects for which European funds are spent. European and national resources, in my view, have exactly the same meaning, of course, at 50%, because concessionaires and co-operatives are involved in the PPPs with the public sector. But that is exactly what is going on there: the contractor chooses the independent engineer and, of course, approves it by the state. The same is true of Article 53. In other words, when the contraaor proposes - although all of this will be regulated by a ministerial decision and we have incorporated the criticism - the private supervisor, the contracting authority has the absolute right to say: 'The proposal is not accepted. Go ahead with another proposal.’ Also, with the legislative improvement, which came yesterday, it became clearer that the private supervisory body is being remunerated by project credits. And we do not want to play with words, ladies and gentlemen. It will be remunerated by project appropriations, because the contracting authority is privileged to choose which projects there will be a private supervisory body. It may not be an independent element of the preparation of the project budget, but the contracting authority has, firstly, the right to cancel and ask for another, and secondly, it has the right to determine whether there will be a private supervisory body in each project, which also marks the costs of the project and is also proof that the private body will be paid by the project credit. So this well-known "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks". For unjustly low bids, I think, it's something we all agree on. The low bids in public works that have led in recent decades? They have led to an evacuation of construction costs and we start with a conventional "x" cost, and in the end we reach a "2x" cost in the delivery of the project, which is ultimately close to the project's budgeted cost. Therefore, large discounts, unjustified discounts have no value at all, except for the contest and for who will get the project with a, if you want, unfair tactic of unjustified discounts. Now, then, the bill comes to cure this weakness and we think that in the functioning of the law we will see it, that every offer that is 10% and above the average of the remaining tenders must be justified. No contractor loses the project, even if he gives a 20% higher discount. It must give reasons for that discount to the contracting authority and the justification for becoming part of the contract in order to ensure that the reasons which led to the contractor at such a low price are real and will be implemented through the contract. I think this is a very good filter. In relation to the increase in guarantees close to the budget and not to the contract, there is a criticism that large companies are being favoured. But I would say that very small and medium-sized companies are not in the same competition field as the six - seven major construction techniques in the country. They are favoured, good small companies are really favoured by changing the guarantees, because the professionals in the area, those who really are bio- and operate in this sector, I think they are favoured by occasional competitors. Now on matters relating to engineers, such as Articles 190 to 212 on disciplinary questions of the TEI, I think that the proposals of associations of technical engineers, graduates of TEIs from previous times have been heard and so what is planned for TEI disciplinarys in these articles will be relevant to TEI members. That's clear. I think it was a fair request. It's adopted. It's a very big branch of thirty thousand scientists, too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two or three minutes, Mr President, if I have your tolerance, I shall conclude. From there on, there are other provisions which have nothing to do with public works, public contracts, mainly concerning the Ministries of Infrastructure and Investment and National Defence, as I have explained. But there are very important provisions. Let me not forget to refer to Article 19 which, if you wish, strengthens transparency. With an amendment by Mr Lebanon, which will be incorporated into this article today, the right to publish notices will be increased as from 2021, which was in force in 4674 of December 2020, if I remember well. It was until December 31st, 202 and will go until December 31st, 2023. Press releases enhance transparency, in our view, because what is going on with the projects is not only about engineers and manufacturers who are the object and who win, mainly about taxpayers who pay the projects well or poorly - in my view - reading newspapers and not specific platforms and neither can they be found. With regard to Article 219, we always listen carefully to what environmental organizations say, what geologists say, what forestists say. I think it is an article that strengthens legal certainty. It is a bridge until the specific environmental studies that have not been completed three years. For any investment any investor hears no Greek state commitment that these special studies will be completed in six months or one year. With this provision we are pressing the competent authorities to complete the specific environmental studies and make this article unnecessary. But, until then, legal certainty must be strengthened and an opportunity must be given, but it includes an environmental impact study, a strategic environmental impact study, integration into urban plans, where there are, and at the top of the S.H.E., the Council of State. Nothing 'transit' can pass into NATURA areas, except that Article 219 itself completely excludes the areas of absolute protection. I shall conclude, Mr President, with an article which I consider to be important because it strengthens research and innovation. I would remind you that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy recently legislated the excessive expenditure on research and innovation companies from 130% to 200%, making the country attractive to research, technology, innovation. We think it is - and in view of the fourth industrial revolution - a good opportunity for Greece to strengthen new research. So this decision was taken and this tax incentive became. We are now coming with Article 225 to say that there is no need for the assessors of research, technology and innovation programmes to produce 'wherefore'. The specific evaluators of the programs of the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation, the EEAS...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u36	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I shall conclude. These assessors, therefore, are not liable to state tax assets ‘from where they are concerned’ and I think we will also attract assessors. Together with tax incentives, we are doing everything we can to strengthen this critical sector. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the bill, because we are in a transitional period after the pandemic, and this bill is a very important instrument for the development of the place and, above all, for the development of European and national resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u38	Good. The rapporteur will take the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called today and tomorrow to discuss a bill which does not go into space and space. It is a bill that comes to amend and - in the spirit of the legislator at least - optimise and speed up procedures that the previous spirit, the legislation of the previous government of SYRIZA, the famous n.4412, has brought to the Greek legislative order. For decades ago there has been an obsolete system of public procurement, procurement, public works, an intangible and heterogeneous system, which came through a Community directive, a Community dictator, No 4412 to bring it into order. Of course, there were many dysfunctions and malfunctions of this legislation. That is why we need to know - and I am making the point - about the legislation you are now bringing at this critical moment, which Timing really is timely. And why is it timely? Because we are called upon as a country to respond and absorb, if possible, always with a framework of shielding the public interest, the resources that will come from the Recovery Fund, the Recovery Fund, in the way and the procedures chosen. But, in order to do this, we need a piece of legislation without malfunctions and without the need for secondary legislation, without the need to heal any problems that will be caused by a new law that will now come, interpretative circulars, amendments which, certainly, the institutions of government, the wider public sector will need to move forward and mature the works, to auction them and to bring them into the construction phase. So we think that time is extremely bad, bad, because it should have been before these twenty months of your own governance, these two years or, in any case, leaving a reasonable period of time, walking with the current situation, so that we could see the rate of absorption of the country in this great challenge, as I said again, of the financial instruments that are ante portas, which are before the gates for us, and not now enter this bill at the moment when we know in fact that there will be uncertainties and delays for the next few months. So, I think it is answered if today's law is a big step forward. The answer is obviously monologue: no. The current law is a major undertaking to restructure the market for large, very large construction companies and study offices. Today's law is a law that closes competition in public procurement. Today's law is another wound of the so many that New Democracy has done in the context of the environmental protection of our country. Today's law is an opportunity window for the revitalization of micro-dimensional interdependence at the level of local government. Today's law is a leap towards privatising the supervision of public works and for losing the technical capacity of public bodies to promote projects. At this point I will place particular emphasis on further, because a huge risk to the Greek public is really embroiled. Apart from decommissioning, in fact, with the question of private supervision, a powerful arm that had for decades, the arm of supervision, certification and overall design and execution of projects, a great deal of damage is created, because this technical capacity of public officials will be lost. And it will be lost because they will not be involved in what they have had for years. So today's law is also a law, in its'soul' - I insist - deeply anti-European. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission in the 1980s saw public procurement, primarily as a tool for the construction of the single European market and for strengthening competition. Today the committee is taking a number of initiatives so that public procurement can also be a tool for promoting 'green' development, innovation and, of course, for strengthening competition. In today's bill on several points there are issues, such as the lifting of the obligation to issue environmental permits before the project is announced. For the acquaintances, this is really creepy. The Treaty cannot be created, without, at least, environmentally pre-authorisation, in practice and in a crisis of contractor to a public work or public contract in general. So, beyond that, there is also a mistake in the time of the legislature, and the way it is done. We don't want to level everything. I also refer to the Minister in this regard. Obviously, there are positive scriptures in this legislation. There are positive provisions which, in fact, are coming to strengthen our own great reform effort in recent years, such as a reduction of EUR 30 000 from EUR 60,000 for public procurement. And I would like here to place particular emphasis on the electronisation achieved on SYRIZA, which was a key tool for transparency, so that everyone knows exactly what is happening to the Greek State, who is receiving or having obligations to the Greek State, who are interlinked with the Greek State. Therefore, I think that the electronization and strengthening of it through KIMDI is a serious reform that has brought practical results in the field of health. So there is also positive elements, which is why we do not want to close it all down. Clearly it is positive to establish the Single Determination System Costs of Technical Works Production Factors. However, I would like to focus on six key pillars that go through this bill and characterise it with specific political features. Firstly, issues relating to the privatisation of supervision. Secondly, environmental issues. Thirdly, the issues relating to the TEC in general. Fourthly, the issues of study - construction, the system, i.e. design - construction. Fifthly, the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises from the arrangements for project guarantees and endlessness. I am going to go further on the accumulated incomplete one. And sixth - terminal, but also important - the issues relating to transparency. Starting with the issue of privatising supervision, today's changes are presented as a manna from heaven, given the central dehydration of too many agencies. It is, indeed, true, that at the moment, after so many years of memorialization, the Greek State at the level of executives has, indeed, dehydrated. And why has that happened? Because, obviously, a large number of colleagues and not only technical government engineers have been retired, but also without proper support due to the state's obligations. We therefore have municipalities or organisations or regions which are 'licensed' shirts, which have financial instruments to challenge them and do not have the managers to run them properly. So, this legislation is supposed to meet this need. But how? How hypocrisy, huh? In fact, SYRIZA, the previous government, had invited all the public bodies to strengthen, by recording their needs, all these executives, even a thousand five hundred. There was a specific invitation from the previous government. In fact, I would like to say that I, too, as a representative of the municipality of the country's fourth municipality, in the Municipality of Heraklion, had recorded our needs, like all other municipalities and all other bodies, mainly at engineering level. Unfortunately, this left a blank letter. While there was the record, we had the real picture of the situation, the present government, in a deep-minded way, I imagine, in that sense, left it aside and instead brought a new management model, a new supervisory model, a new model for the certification of public funds to third parties. And here I think we're really talking about a world patent. There is no country - in fact, I challenge the current Minister and anyone else - to tell us one country in the world, a country in Europe - in which, in the extremes, in the hard work we say, public works, namely those that have only resources from the taxpayers of Greek citizens, there is supervision and certification by private engineers and not by public engineers, who are, of course, subject to sanctions and disciplinary checks. This in itself is a distortion, beyond the veiling veil, which covers it and, above all, threatens a huge risk of smuggling public money. I mean it. Now, as far as environmental issues are concerned, the present government has achieved something that until beforehand was unthinkable. He succeeded and embedded, unified the whole of the country's environmental organizations. Tens of thousands - I think they are flirting with the number of thirty thousand - are the signatures that have already been collected for this effort, not only against one article, but above all - and above all - of Article 219, which effectively overturns the existing status quo of environmental data and, indeed, is in direct conflict with the Community directive 6 on this issue. But that's not enough. We also have a series of other, additional protests or, if you like, technical and legal interventions. Even the podium of the Scientific Service of the Parliament is catastrophic with regard to Article 219. And I will read mot a mot, word for word, a verse that clearly shows, crystallised how against this article and even this logic is the Scientific Service of Parliament. First of all, it is noted that since the drafting of the proposal (sub-region) this is the key to Article 219, that is to say, creating a'sea horse' within a NATURA region, it creates sub-regions with responsibility from another Ministry. Another world originality! Will the Minister for the Environment, who has not come to the committees at all, come this weekend? Because he's also a fellow engineer, he'll be interested to hear his opinion. Didn't he know that at all? Because that's what we imagine. It is incomprehensible, because it is also outlawed by the Ministry of Greek citizens - the Ministry of the Greek citizens - the Ministry of the Environment, a very serious obligation to shield the environment, because under the "NATURA" area, when we know that the NATURA areas are 30% throughout the country, you understand the multitude and extent of these surfaces and what can happen. Clearly, therefore, the Scientific Committee states that neither the category and characteristics of the area nor the proposed activities and interventions in the area are clearly apparent from the drafting of the proposal under the protection area in the cases of mild development projects. Furthermore, the impression is that the designation of a region above is followed by a concrete recovery proposal, and in particular by its purpose. And he says below, where the key is. ‘It is stated in this regard that, pursuant to Article 43(2) of the Constitution, the legislative authorisation for it to be legal, must be specific and specific, i.e. to make a specific determination of its object and to set the limits in relation to it.’ So you realise that this creative ambiguity, which governs this particular spirit, this article, obviously has specific subjective aims. That is what I want to devour with Article 219. In all other respects, we have had today, Mr President, a letter to the Prime Minister. You have succeeded and joined twenty-nine - neither one, nor two, nor three! - environmental organizations in the country where they sent this morning, urgently, a letter to the Prime Minister, where they say what the whole of society says: immediate withdrawal of Article 219. I come to issues relating to the TEI, which are equally important, to issues relating to the Technical Chamber: it is in the right direction to withdraw the articles relating to disciplinary control of the TEI to members of the SETEM, that is to say to members of a body not members of the Technical Chamber. This irrationality, fortunately, is withdrawn. However, there remains evidence of the technical Chamber, which we cannot expose. And why am I saying that? The Management Committee of the TEI under this draft law acquires powers to execute public works by replacing the central state. So the TEE turns into what? In a 'parallel', and unfairly competing with its own members, engineers themselves. I think it's a distortion that needs to be labelled. Now, with regard to the subject of study - construction, I listened with caution to the Minister in this matter and I am now sure that the notorious acceleration, which he believes is speeding up with this bill - is precisely about the possibility of this and hence for projects to be proclaimed without their environmental studies having been completed. Not only is this intervention completely counter-environmental, but it is a presumption that it will lead to endless legal undeterminedness and a huge loss of public resources. Let us say this once again, to be clear: The predictions of environmental studies alter the natural object of a tendered project. Their ex-post approval therefore means either environmental discounts or a change in the contract concerned in order to incorporate their forecasts. This would result in legal claims by contractors and appeals by those who have reduced. Therefore, the specific forecasts for the project in general will prove to be destructive by purely technological criteria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be too late, Mr President. I am going to an issue now that has a central dimension, because it concerns small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, which have really been worrying in recent months about the health crisis problem clearly, but also about government choices to support or not. Small and medium-sized enterprises, which are a large part of them, belong to the industry as a technician, designer, construction worker, suppliers, certainly have with this legislation found another opponent. And why am I saying that? A number of articles turn them into articles, transport them, and risk them with an asymmetrical risk so that they are effectively excluded from public tenders, thus reducing them - because we are interested in competition as a Greek state. We always want competition, because by means of quantitative cumulation the qualitative leap is caused, which is the qualitative leap in public armour. We want competition, so that there is public armour and public interest. So, here, what's going on? Incidentally - indeed masquerading, I would say - the legislator makes sure that the small and medium-sized ones are excluded. And why do we say that? It raises the guarantees to a very large extent, not on the contract item after deduction, but on the initial budget. For your acquaintances, this is a very long and unequal charge. Secondly, it raises an issue with the endless limit of projects. A limit of 45m euros is actually set. We know that only seven large companies - I would say, fewer contractors - five, seven large companies are able to claim works and accumulate so large an endless amount. It therefore substantially zeros the possibility for small, very small, or even small and medium-sized enterprises to claim projects of greater scope. And that is something that needs to be labelled. Before we get to the issues relating to transparency, let me say something about the big issue, because it is assumed that the great political challenge of this legislation is one, to speed up procedures. How is it possible to speed up the procedures, when we know that everything - beware of how the present government legislates - all the powers that have so far had technical services and technical addresses in regions, in agencies, in municipalities, in towns, in towns and cities, all of this comes - to the Central Council of the Ministry of Infrastructure. We are now talking about going back to the 1960s. It's the absolute centralized state. In the last few decades, when a serious decentralisation had been achieved with the previous governments, New Democracy has now come to accumulate everything in the Ministry of Infrastructure. All committees for any work in the country that needs to be labelled or recapitulative tables or objections or treatment requests should go to the Central Council. This is what I think is the epitome of delay, the epitome of arrogance. Cases that will occur weekly in the country will be hundreds. Is that how you legislate? So you see the acceleration of procedures? I think that will achieve exactly the opposite. In closing my position, I would also like to refer to issues of transparency and clarity. This is not only the obvious case of the black funds which Mr Chardalias wishes to have under Article 226. Much more important - in our view - although less, perhaps not so gel in the world, it does not understand it properly, but it is a huge issue, is an increase in the limit of EUR 1 000 to EUR 2 500 for the non-publishment of direct awards to the KIMS. No one has understood why to disguise and hide these cases of contracts. No one understands, because we limit transparency and clarity to such a matter. The issue here is not the 1,000 euros that are very few. The question is that the provision makes it impossible to substantiate any partitioning of a public tender.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Mamulaki, you're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u41	In this sense, it is a real drawback for the public administration as a whole and for the financial management of the EBRD in particular and from the acquis guaranteed by Law 4412. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this bill, while in the opinion of the legislator it has been drawn up to solve problems and speed up procedures, is doing exactly the opposite. It creates structural imbalances in public administration, excludes small and medium-sized enterprises from public procurement, threatens the country's environmental protection framework, intensifys the phenomena of transparency and micro-dimension and, above all, comes at a very wrong time. For these reasons, we intend to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Michael Katrinis, special speaker from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when Greek society is experiencing the third wave of pandemic with measures that last but do not, with the economy being severely hurt and small and medium-sized enterprises threatened with extinction, the government brings a bill on the framework of public procurement with flagship characterisations of transparency, flexibility and efficiency. All of this from a government which, over the last year, has made a record of direct awards by way of a derogation from commissions, literally working on pandemic and turning the exception into a rule in the field of supplies, contracts and awards. In fact, from acquired speed and today you are still bringing an amendment to the Ministry of Digital Governance, to the Ministry, which should not be affected by the pandemic for its processes and functions. With a view to making use of the EUR 94 billion total - Recovery Fund, the new NSRF, the National Development Programme and the Rural Development Programme - transparency, flexibility and efficiency are of particular importance, as are the faster use of these resources, the rapid implementation of projects and the increased effectiveness of public procurement in terms of transparency, accountability, strengthening domestic production and social return. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today lacks the issue of the climate crisis and the immediate environmental challenges, the social dimension of public procurement, the promotion of innovation, and also the economies of scale. And reasonablely enough questions arise with regard to the bill and its objectives, at least as hierarchically put on the majority side. The first question is: Is it the bill that we are discussing a holistic approach and reform of the regulatory framework for public procurement, which will lead to a blockade by endless bureaucratic procedures, as the majority rapporteur said with a great deal of lyricism? Apparently not. We are discussing a bill without a targeting, without a signal and without a result, which includes a hundred amendments to at least 40 of the previous government's Law 4412. So, what are you, gentlemen of the government? You are changing a non-functional law, which has so far required four hundred amendments, with a framework that is not also functional. The second question is: Are you simplifying and rationalising the demonic legal framework so that we can overcome the great delays, as the Minister for Infrastructure has said? A bill providing for a total of almost a hundred ministerial decisions does not reduce bureaucracy, as Mr Papathanase said in committee, and it is doubtful when it will be implemented in practice. Is it accidental, then, that all operators expressed strong reservations about how quickly this law can be implemented? Clearly not, because the government's practice to date shows that it specializes in the grand bills that are advertised as 'big sectors', but which are not ultimately implemented. Why? Because to implement it requires a large number of ministerial decisions with an unknown natural time horizon of application. We have seen this, I will say a single characteristic example, in the Digital Governance Code that was passed in September and which, according to the relevant survey by the Greek Industrial Association, is pending over a hundred ministerial decisions today that we are talking about, so that our country appears in the European Union's latest positions on the regulatory environment in the digital sector. Third question: Is transparency being strengthened, as the government very much supports,? Is it, in the direction of transparency, to increase the threshold, even for contracts of minor importance for which information is not provided, is it in the direction of transparency to increase the limit of direct awards? Is the very wide margin of discretion for contracting authorities to select a contractor for studies in the area of transparency? Is the provision for awarding a contract for 80% to 120% of the quantity of goods and services, when the economic offer relates to specific data? Is it, in the direction of transparency, a study to be a reason to dismantle the contract, but can it be used by the next broker to be invited by the head of authority? And, finally, is it in the direction of transparency, ladies and gentlemen, the criteria, the degrees of criteria, the technical features and the process of registering the digital registration file to be regulated in white by the Minister? Question four: Supporting the design system - construction - does it really constitute a speeding up of procedures? First of all, it was heard by the operators that it was not the current practice internationally, while overall the market is asking for environmental conditions to be approved beforehand. On the contrary, the government bases the acceleration precisely on the reverse process. Does the broad application of the study-building model not solve the issues of speed, but does it ultimately threaten both the quality of the studies and the public interest as a whole? Question 5: The unusually low tenders, a really important problem, are they finally dealt with by the provisions of the bill? The majority of the bodies question it by asking for objective criteria - it is important that the Technical Chamber of Greece asks for this - or, in fear of increasing bureaucratic and administrative costs with high-delay, arbitrary and opaque risks, just as the representatives of the technical companies have said. They stress that everything depends on the correctness of the auction budget and not of course on the average discounts. And why do you choose, for example, 10% rather than 15% or 20%? Is there a scientific evidence base for this? The possibility for the contracting authority to judge as unusually low offers even with smaller or even no deviation from the average discounts, I think it is understandable that it opens the door to arbitrariness wide. Question 6: Private supervision and project monitoring system will solve any problems by safeguarding the public interest? We, the Change Movement, obviously, do not demonise private sector involvement in the economy. It is another thing, however, that the support and assistance of the public administration, particularly in cases where the public sector has proved to be unreserved, and that is another thing to do with full substitution. And in any case, when a private body is selected, the choice should be made by a specific register and by the projector with full independence from the manufacturer. This is something quite different from what the government proposes. What does the government propose? To oversee and control public procurement and public works a private body that is selected and paid by the manufacturer, which inevitably will lead to conflicts of interest and distortions. Question 7: What are the major problems of public procurement and, in particular, public works? The major delays in the tendering procedures, the excessive discounts offered by the tenderers, the delays in the completion of contracts, due to problem studies and additional contracts. And all of this is based on the reference of the unprecedented analytical invoices for public works which are not in line with technological developments and are not adapted to European regulations. And it is good that the Single System of Technical Specifications and Pricing for Technical Works and Studies is being implemented, but it is problematic that you also refer this to ministerial decisions and under the responsibility of a legal person of private law, and it should be public service competence. Question eighth and eighth: Is the protection of the parties involved in the question suffice? On the one hand, it is in the right direction that the financial limits are reduced to apply for a preliminary ruling from 60,000 to 30,000 euros. On the other hand, you discourage interested parties from resorting, since you give them the incentive to return the offense if they withdraw their appeal before they are even informed of the views of the contracting authority, since, of course, the paradox is unthinkablely high. Have you, in fact, served the Proceedings Review Authority to carry out its work quickly and effectively? Is it true, gentlemen of the Government, that there was a persistent proposal from a top member of the Government to merge the Independent Proceedings Authority and EASA and effectively abolish the principle which examines the references for preliminary rulings? What was this proposal served by a top government official? As far as the provisions on the obligation to publish declarations in the local press are concerned, we heard the Minister of Development yesterday's commitment and we are waiting to have legislation. For reasons of transparency and transparency and information in the local press, which is a reliable contribution to citizens' information and which is an instrument by which companies and stakeholders can actually be informed of projects and studies in good time, we think that it should be extended, as well as the provisions concerning the disciplinary law of non-TF members, as the Minister for Infrastructure has promised, we are waiting for legislative improvements. Provisions governing the disciplinary law of the TEU are right to come. However, this should not extend to non-members. We now go to the provisions concerning the Ministry of National Defence and are corrections to earlier laws, mainly by adding procedures and clarifications without, unfortunately, having a strategy to strengthen the domestic defence industry. The multiplicity of defence procurement and procurement is maintained and increased, which will increase malfunctions at armaments level, since the procedures envisaged will be based on four interrelated, but different laws. And I will dwell on the provision that maintains and strengthens the incompatibility of those involved in the supply of defence equipment through their institutional status in relation to their professional development, following the withdrawal from supplies-related services. Why is this incompatibility not also true of other public-private positions involved in the design and planning of procurement contracts? Ladies and gentlemen, is it not inconsistent that the former Secretary General for Digital Policy of the previous government was appointed to be responsible for the new structure of one of the telecommunications companies in the country to claim public works, but also for projects to be financed by the Recovery Fund? Is it not inconsistent that the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Digital Policy, on the current government, having taken part in the design of the "Fastos" fund, which uses money, frequency auctions, 5G, resigned to take on directors of the "Fastos" fund, which would use these funds on purely private criteria? We have been asking a question since 8 December and have not received an answer. And of course, he didn't sweat the Minister's ear. Former Secretary-General of the Managing Director of this fund has been appointed. They therefore constitute incompatible. And because this is where the provision of supplies and contracts for at least three years cannot be dealt with in the private sector, it should also be extended to other areas of public responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Development Bank is concerned, I will not refer to the individual articles. After all, we as a Change Movement have supported almost all the provisions concerning the Development Bank until now because we believe in its role. But is the Development Bank doing its part? Does it facilitate, strengthen entrepreneurship, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, in this very difficult period? The Minister of Development triumphantly triumphed the bank's revenues for his days as proof of a successful operation, but also of good prospects. This is a matter, indeed, but it is not the most important one. The important thing is who is the beneficiaries of the Development Bank's operation. The big problem is that the development Bank's programmes and liquidity are accessible to just thirty thousand businesses, over eight hundred and thirty thousand active corporate VAT, that is, less than 4%. That's what it's all about. 4% of the country's entrepreneurship relates to the project or loan related to the Development Bank. But is that all the problem? Oh, no. Who have the loans so far gone to? In the first phase of the programmes, small businesses with a turnover of up to EUR 100,000 a year only received 2.4% of the funds. Do problems end in relation to the Development Bank and who have access? Of course not. The cord is even tighter, since last September the Government decided to take a loan to the second phase of TEPIX II and a guarantee fund, the companies that received a loan and the first, despite the opposite decision of the Development Bank's administration. So you and me. The Responsibility Committee, with the participation of both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development, overturns the decision and the beneficiaries themselves in the first phase receive loans in the second phase. A year ago, in this Chamber when I pointed out the risk of exclusion of a vast majority of businesses, due to the strict banking criteria, the Minister of Development was swinging my finger, telling me that I was defending the bastards. So who are the batads, according to Mr. Georgiadis? Those who, due to the ten-year crisis owed at the end of 2019 to banks, funds and tax? Who are these, ladies and gentlemen? They are the ones for which the Government today brings Article 223, so that they are not seized by any aid for the development of an electronic store and is given insurance and tax information, or does not make it a precondition for such aid. In other words, at least 70% of small businesses that have non-performing loans to banks, funds or owe tax and funds, in a country with a private debt of EUR 240 billion. It seems that the government now finds that the batters of April 2020 are the vast majority of the entrepreneurship in the country, which is excluded - I say again - but all the tools of the Development Bank and liquidity, except the repayable advance, and cannot be voted on unless the current regulation is passed even on to the NSRF aid. And we will wait with interest for the liquidity board to tell us what action it will take so that credit criteria can be more flexible and that companies can access liquidity. Finally, for Article 219, we are still waiting for the Minister for the Environment to document how the studies on soft development projects in the public interest, as the Government baptises them, are combined with the strategy of its Ministry for Special Environmental Studies throughout the region, as established by the law of the Government of Mr Hatzidakis. The report of the Parliamentary Scientific Service points out the weaknesses of this provision. It is not defined in which zones it will be applied and under which criteria. It comes into conflict - I say it exactly as the report of the Parliamentary Scientific Office describes it - with the European legislation and the recent case law of the European Court of Justice, and since no objectives have been set in the NATURA areas, it is pointless to make sub-regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u44	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the recovery fund funds through the procurement award criteria could also be a tool for upgrading businesses and strengthening workers, you prefer direct awards and dividends. Instead of rewarding award criteria that have referred to the maintenance and creation of jobs for sustainable growth, digital transformation and environmental protection, you maintain the opaque and customer logic that we are still paying for. At a time when radical reshaping and modernising the whole framework of public procurement for the benefit of the national economy, you do not seem to have either the political will or the vision that will allow you to achieve a substantial result. And despite any significant improvements made to this draft law and which we will obviously support, it is a bill below the circumstances with which we disagree and we will obviously vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Minister, will you have any legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u47	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u48	If possible, we will have them before the ordinary speakers get up in the Step. We do not reach the end of today's sitting to be tabled. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u49	It is a bill containing a number of arrangements that facilitate the implementation of the state's main, direct economic role as a sponsor of groups, through the state markets of goods and works in modern conditions. The new regulations align the framework of contracts with the general planning of the civil order and its priorities. They aim to make better use of the extended package of the coming period, in terms of large capital, and there are enough billions. It follows, corrects and completes the framework submitted in 2016 by the SYRIZA government, with the corresponding changes in all previous years, proving once again the strategic assumption of the two parties. With an alibi that you are shrinking the malfunctions, obstacles and delays that exist, you are promoting at the expense of public control work, the functioning of the public services that you privatise, at the expense of the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises and of the state budget, because you have a goal: the rapid access of business groups to the projects and their rapid profitability. In other words, you are levelling everything that has made it difficult for the unobstructed action of big capital. And that's not all that's done. With yesterday's amendments - unacceptable the way - you are suspending until 31 October 2021 the execution of demolitions of all kinds on beaches, seasides, banks, etc., by giving time to legalise them to the advantage of the large-scale owners and of course at the expense of the people's interests and the environment. Shame on you! And you got it that way. Although you had it ready, you didn't tell us a word until the night the committee existed. Why? In order for the Scientific Committee of the Parliament not to have a say in its report, neither. Not only are you protecting the environment, but you are raping it every day, like the NATURA regions, with Article 219, which has rightly stirred up a storm of reactions. You arrive at the point where the contractor undertaking the project chooses the private auditor of his work. There is, of course, no transparency, but there is also significant costs of remuneration for the private auditor added to the project budget. At the same time public services are shining in inappropriate, despised and shrinking. You are projecting the electronicization of contracts, large and small. However, you are not going to tackle the problems in the process of selecting and implementing contracts, nor the problem of corruption, because it is in fact an expression of a system of contracts that is based on the profitability of the companies that are operating. There is no neutral state to save its resources. The state is classic, it finances big capital. The only thing to change is the allocation of funding, the concentration of projects and supplies in large enterprises with preferential treatment. The bill therefore provides for a wide privatization of project supervision procedures, making use of the Technical Chamber as a central institution, as well as introducing private registers to undertake the relevant procedures. This is essentially a privatization of state functions, privatisation and supervision. It is the natural evolution of changes in all the previous years in building auditors, private building, and others that have been promoted and implemented by all previous governments. It forms part of the policy of the so-called State of New Democracy, which aims to facilitate the operation of large capital, while exploiting the permanent subscribing of state services that are unable to deal with the problems involved. It extends the institution of arbitration to large categories of projects and contracts, with the State actually giving up even the judicial protection it conferred on itself, thereby facilitating large companies. It accelerates the concentration of projects in large enterprises by introducing into small projects the so-called non-economic criteria relating, however, to the economic strength of large enterprises. It contains arrangements to facilitate the activities of large groups in construction, such as the abolition of measurements, the successor's ability to retreat, etc. Contracts with groups from the European Union are facilitated in the context of the enlargement of the so-called common market in the European Union. It promotes the reactionary policy of so-called 'green' development by introducing it as a criterion in the projects. That's your hypocrisy. The draft law as a whole has a set of provisions aimed at facilitating the reactionary design for the "green" digital transition, common design for the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the European Union. Digital infrastructure and related contracts are easily promoted, while the digitisation of the process generally accelerates the State's digital transition. The ‘green’ conditions are harmoniously integrated into the ‘green’ social agreement, while the forecasts for NATURA regions and for the implementation of projects, without having completed environmental impact studies, are almost ‘photographic’ for various infrastructures required by the Joint New Democracy - SYRIZA, for industrialisation of the whole countryside, under the pretext of so-called ‘green’ development. Your hypocrisy. There is no guarantee of full quality and quantitative control both in part and in the overall project and, above all, that the unsavoury work cannot be retrospectively checked, since the work will have been invoked by others. This is not only a deficit of transparency, but it is a typical example of other problems, such as the construction of the southern pier of a tourist port by the Chinese monopoly of 'COSCO' that has lifted the people, after calling on the PPE to audit and does not come, that is to say, to check the composition of materials used before they are completely covered. Why? They have elements and fears for the use of materials that cause marine pollution. So you are now legalising such situations. In addition, contractors and private designers will determine the prices of materials and works, the specifications of projects at risk of overcompensation and the technical specifications in construction. And yet it is well known from the report of the Court of Auditors of the European Union, which was seen for our country, that in PPP projects and, above all, motorways, costs were 65% higher. What does that mean? Hate and rot. But why do you promote these changes? Firstly, because in a period of crisis in the capitalist economy there is a fall in private investment, and you want to encourage them with a package of about 72 billion, with resources mainly derived from the Recovery Fund and the new Community support framework, a lot of money, linked to a national development plan that will define the reform and investment priorities by 2026, and there is no point in meeting the needs of public health, education, since the coronary that is actually reaping it has been bought exclusively in an individual case and responsibility. Secondly, instead of carrying out massive recruitments of permanent and full-time staff, which are needed, you are depriving public services and you are firing out permanent and stable work. You, like the previous SYRIZA government, refuse to recruit permanent staff with stable employment relationships. You have renounced permanent and stable work in order to decommission public services and have an alibi for conferring powers on individuals. That's why you promote a monstrosity, where auditors and controllers will be interconnected, so that they more quickly meet the profitability requirements of the big ones. At the same time, with the articles on the Technical Chamber, you are aiming to ensure the expansion of the business function of the TEI and to implement its enhanced role. With regard to the 37 articles of the Ministry of Defence, regardless of the law defining supplies in the area of defence and security, modernisation is about the country's deepest involvement in imperialist planning. Supplies shall be adapted to the needs and the service of the operational plans of the imperialist mechanisms. That's what you all agree on. Of course there is the Turkish challenge in the Aegean and Evros, the question of the Greek sovereignty of ten Aegean islands, the Greek continental continent and the EEZ, and due to the tension with Turkey there is the need to strengthen the Armed Forces and that this must be done in a flexible, faster and more effective way. However, the expressions ‘operational autonomy of the Armed Forces’ or ‘territorial technological base’ are misleading, since the government's policy is to contribute to the uninterrupted functioning of its alliances, while handing over the existing infrastructure of the military industry to private investors, by including it in the service of their business plans and not in the defence of the country, namely the safeguarding of territorial integrity and sovereign rights. For the disdaining of the war industry, all governments are responsible and it is not too often that the Communist Party brings the matter to the House. In addition, the operation of the defensive war industry is interconnected with the national defence policy and the national military strategy. We'd say it's a form of oxymomile, since the war industry is gradually being privatised. Should we remind ELVO, the shipbuilding industry or its gradual transformation into an exclusive 'LOCKHEED' super-contractor? Eventually, the procurement process in the Armed Forces has a past with dark and black elements. There are typical events that have seen the light of publicity, have dealt with justice and are linked to provisions, large or smaller, war materials. Every business always wants to sell in every way. As regards the national crisis management and risk management mechanism, the deep reactionary nature of these arrangements emerges. It is revealed that civil protection has been designed to act as a repressive mechanism and not for the protection of the people. It is part of the requirements of capital, the imperialist organisations of the European Union and NATO to which the country is part and promotes privatisation. The supplies, services and projects of the programmes are therefore not made on the basis of the needs of people's protection from each government, but account is taken of the repressive orientation established and approved by the HRC, while the relevant Interministerial Committee for Political Protection has only an incentive role. Finally, I would like to stress that it is not a question of how well the public procurement procedure works, but of what it finances and of what criteria. For us criteria and priorities it is for major projects to contribute to the development that will focus on satisfying people's needs, improving the position of the people's family, respect for the environment, shaping climate economies rather than confiscation. Which of these criteria are your plans being implemented? And I am not only talking about the current government, but about the plans of the capitalist system and the priorities it has. None of these criteria exist throughout the bill, but also in your entire policy. One will ask how these works are to be done for the people. Yes, we are clearly saying that both the study and the construction and maintenance of major projects must be the responsibility of the state, with a socialised area of construction which respects the scientific level of engineers and their continuous retraining, but also with the use of other workers' industries and does not try to "screw them" with the various blocks of service, with the various one-day contracts or with the dangerous and unhealthy anti-weapons of your "arrangement" which strengthen uncertainty and insecurity. It is clear that in strategic matters we are deeply opposed to this bill and that is why we will vote against it at first, but also in most articles. For the provocative amendments you have tabled this evening, we will be in place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u50	Good. The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the first meeting of the committee we reported that this bill has two hundred and twenty-nine articles in three hundred forty-two pages. It concerns the management of billions and is submitted for ratification by the party majority, the New Democracy, which is part of the non-existent development of our country, which, according to EUROSTAT's figures, we will present in the minutes, in 2020 was unfortunately the last of the Eurozone, among those who submitted data, with the longest deficit of all, 15%, obviously due to the failed policy of a government that increases deficits and debt as if it were not there tomorrow, while it hides all its mismanagement, as is, of course, the multiple and unscheduled ‘locks’ behind the pandemic. We should therefore be prepared for a nightmare day after that, which the government certainly knows, with the intention of holding elections in time for its own selfish party interests, not for Greece. In relation to the mismanagement of the crisis, which caused these huge deficits, it is unnecessary to recall the uncontrolled opening of our borders without testing and wrong software, as well as the extortion of them from 'TUI' through the German Government, according to statements by Mrs Bakoyannis. In any case, if the government, instead of was was spending so much money, did build the ITHs that our health system needs, with much less, we would not have led to such catastrophic "locks", while from the example of Florida and California we all know that the effects of the pandemic are the same either "locks" a state of its economy or not and even more that "locks" are destroying both the economy and health more widely. Continuing, in general, the draft law aims at changes that have long been discussed in relation to public works contracts to simplify and accelerate procedures, as well as to treat the morbidity that exists. These changes constitute an amendment to SYRIZA's Law 4412/2016, while the cause of the attempted reform is the problems that have arisen in the implementation of the framework in practice, such as with regard to the competitive process. The bill had, as usual, been announced by the troika, which essentially governs Greece, already in the eighth evaluation, which refers to page 34. In particular, the late decision-making process is highlighted as a problem, the issue of the large number of competitions with only one participant, as usual, as well as the problem of the many contracts, concluded solely on the basis of the lowest price offered, which is then increased, doubled, triple, etc. In our view, however, the bill is probably prepared for the new development package of the European Union, the 'Next Generation EU', which is EUR 32 billion together with the loans, but requires 37% to be spent on 'green' projects and 20% on digitising mainly the public, obviously with the European technology market, to return the money back to those who give it to us, as has always been the case with the NSRs, to which the domestic state business elite has participated to some extent. This is something that we disagree with by proposing productive investment, such as electricity, modernisation of our primary sector, in missing infrastructure, such as the BOAK in Crete and so on. In addition, in Part I of the bill, the legislative framework for the award of public supply contracts, services and works contracts is reformed, where the intention of speeding up the procedures, but directly conferring powers on the Minister. The tendering of projects with study - construction will be carried out in parallel with environmental licensing, while environmental conditions should not substantially alter the subject matter, with a view to avoid delaying the projects and transferring the responsibility of the studies to the contraaor. With regard to the establishment of private project and study supervision, which we assume is intended to cure the weaknesses in the state mechanism, we are not sure how they will work, let alone when there are many protests in the consultation of public engineers. Finally, the project monitoring system is introduced and is converted into a declaratory, where invoices will be made after a manufacturer's declaration, with the aim of speeding up procedures. Continuing, in Part II, the institutional framework on public procurement of supply, services and works in the fields of defence and security is amended, as well as on supplies of defence material from the Armed Forces. Among other things, the decisions of the OSCE on the media structure shall be reassessed and updated every three years thereafter or later in the event of a change of critical data. The duration of rolling military equipment contracts is reduced, and the powers of committees such as the Special Standing Committee on Equipment are redefined. In our view, all of this is dictated by the need to change the long winter mine of our foreign policy, which was faithful to the doctrine of so-called European protection and international law, which the government finally understood is not. In Part III there are various provisions, including provisions for the Competition Committee Chapter I, for the "Greek Development Bank S.A." and for the "Greek Development Investment Bank S.A." in Chapter II, which have been staffed by the Government - but they probably have no funds to help development. Organisational issues of the TEI are set out in Chapters III and IV, which is required to provide support to public committees during the study and conclusion of contracts. For disabled persons in Chapter V as regards accessibility requirements in buildings, the deadlines shall be extended. Toll collection is regulated in Chapter F and in the digitization of building files in Chapter G. Finally, the status of protection against auctions in the Eye and in the wider area is extended to Chapter VIII, an incredible delay and affliction of the citizens, while in Chapter I the issues of the National Crisis Management and Risk Management Mechanism will be regulated. For all these arrangements, no cost is reported by the General Accounting Office of the State, which is often the case and which we consider to be disproportionate. Is it not true, of course, that any changes we need to know the cost and benefit, so that we can judge whether they are of interest or not? In any case, the public procurement laws so far have had the well-known result, the bankruptcy of Greece, prepared by the Government of 2004-2009 of the New Democracy, which finally escaped through the early elections. In the second committee we stressed that today's law, instead of promoting transparency, exacerbates it by a large number of authorisations to the Government for the conclusion of public contracts in the absence of Parliament. In this way it perpetuates the most serious disadvantage in our country, the existence of a state-run and parasitic business elite, which, through public contracts, constantly releasing the money of Greek taxpayers. Thus, on the one hand, the state is forced to borrow more and more money, on the other, it is prevented from becoming new productive powers in Greece, while the national consciousness of the Greeks is being destroyed and the national unity that is necessary to enable the country not only to escape the crisis, but to build up. In some articles, as in 57, the certified private supervisory body, which will be proposed by the contractors themselves and paid by them, is adopted, which means that the audit will be paid by the auditer, as was the case with the CDOs and the rating companies that caused the financial crisis in 2008. If that's possible! In Article 149 we welcome the re-activation of our defence industry, which has an additional development parameter, noting that apart from the state defence industry, there is a blooming private sector, which is largely exportable and must be carefully monitored. We believe, however, that the proportion of domestic participation in the armaments programmes should be increased to at least 35%, as it was in the past, although in Turkey it has gradually exceeded 60%. Apart from armaments all other supplies to consumables must come from the domestic market, since it is incomprehensible for the Turks to sew the uniforms of our soldiers. Turks sew our soldiers' uniforms! Shame on you! In Chapter III we are generally opposed to TEI's participation in works contracts, and we do not agree with the remote examinations in Article 191. Article 215 for road charges states that the power to collect toll fees at the Malgaras station is transferred to the company ‘EGNATIA LOGO S.A.’, which collects them on behalf of the Greek State and as the agent of the Greek State, TEAD. This is totally unacceptable, since the HICP has absolutely nothing to do with Egnatia, which belongs to the public. It's one of the few fixeds we've got left. This is all enough to vote against the bill. Article 219 has been widely mentioned by the institutions, and it is absolutely unacceptable that the selective ecology of the government is not acceptable. If we can talk about determining a protection sub-region in the case of mild development projects! It seems clear here that the government has absolutely no environmental sensitivity, and this is probably a service of ELDORADO GOLD and the EUR 1.9 billion investment, which it has already announced. Finally, in Article 223, which defines the amount of EUR 5,000 for the creation of e-shops with the 'e-shops' programme, in our view, this is a payroll for the fantasy entrepreneurs, since the services 'datacenters' are actually subsidised, as is the purchase of a server and a computer via 'e-shops'. The cost of the programme is 80m euros and is well reminiscent of Mr Brutsi's vouchers, judging, among other things, by advertising and 'e-shop' sales, which, like then, literally floods the market. Unfortunately, waste continues as if it does not exist tomorrow, in the flawed view of the government that, as long as we are borrowed, we will take it, indifferent to deficits and debts. That's what the government thinks. This has also been seen by the last allegations made by the Minister for Development, according to which the amount of our borrowing is not important, but only the interest in serving it. If that's possible! Noting here that semi-learning is worse than immortality, it seems that unfortunately it does not know the obvious that the service of a loan is not only about interest but also the instalments, the debt-solving as we call it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Therefore, it is of course important that the amount of borrowing, noting that the debt service from 10% that was in 2019, will be launched at 15% from now on to 2040. From 10% in 2019 it will be launched at 15% over the next twenty years, as we will testify in the Minutes. The Minister also claimed that the debt to GDP seems high from 127% in 2009, which reminds us that we entered the memoranda, at 210% today, because GDP decreased. But why did GDP fall? Obviously, because of the debt and deficits, due to which we have had to reduce expenditure and increase taxes, resulting in the collapse of our GDP from EUR 240 billion in the past to EUR 160 billion today, as well as the impoverishment of the Greeks. That was the debt. As for the PSI, who proudly voted, as he was proud of the closure of hospitals, is it so difficult to understand that Greece's mortgage on creditors and its conversion into a occupied colony today was a crime? Did he forget that the co-pilot, Mr. Venizelos, had claimed that our public debt in 2020 would be at 120% of GDP to justify our country's 'defence'? The House is not TV, to baptize white black for impressions and then leave, though financially speaking with the Minister, is honestly like stealing church. Truly, does he think about his own business, that is, that it is not significantly increasing debts and losses, but only its lending potential and interest rate? Does he not understand how we will be asked again for exchanges, such as the handover of Macedonia's name - by SYRIZA - in relation to the extension of EUR 96 billion for after 2032 - we could not pay them - to Turkey in the Aegean today, the Germans' ally, as we believe it has already been agreed? Are foreign volunteers unfair to us, when we have such perceptions, to think of foreign volunteers as followers of the policy of submissiveness, inclination and international vengeance, of begging? Shouldn't we be ashamed of ourselves instead of triumphant? It appears that this is the logic of lending the New Democracy Party, which had loans of 308 million euros in 2019, according to its balance sheet, interest of 34 million euros and revenues of only 11 million euros. There is no problem, of course, because the banks continue to lend it, obviously in exchange. We did not launch "Hercules I" and "Hercules II", robbing the Greeks again, nor the release of the auctions that will complete the robbery. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] These are the reasons why Greece is walking from evil to worse, which certainly cannot please any Greek. We therefore hope that both the Minister and his Government will be brought together, stopping the waste of credits and supporting consumption instead of production, before a more stringent memorandum is imposed on us, as it unfortunately seems not only very likely but totally possible. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. The floor is now given by the special speaker of Mera 25 Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Minister, we call on the Government to apologise for the statement by the Minister for Development and Vice-President of the New Democracy that "when environmental organisations find you, something good you do." In your own sense, of course, you must do something extremely well, as twenty-nine organisations are now, with about a million supporters who are calling for the withdrawal of Article 219. But it seems to us that the institutions of the government also formally demand the withdrawal of Article 219, such as the 'Nature 2000' Commission, which the government has recently reappointed. And that's an honorable thing to think it is? You are a deeply anti-European government. This is clearly seen in this bill. Your X-ray is Article 219. What if we were condemned as a country on 17 December 2020, a few months ago, for the non-protecting of NATURA areas, why did we not have a management plan, that is, we had not cleared what the protected object is? And what are you doing against this conviction? You bring cementation into NATURA before we come the management studies for which we were convicted, and indeed the Ministry of the Environment. It is not that the Minister for the Environment is not here, it is not that the Environment Minister was not in committee for a moment, but there is no Ministry of the Environment in the bill. It is a bill that gives responsibilities for NATURA to the Ministry of Development, at the same time as we have recently been condemned, but there is second recourse at a final stage, in the reasoned opinion, which runs against us on the winds at NATURA, for the projects that you set up in NATURA, without, in essence, appropriate assessment, which means rejecting before the environmental studies of these projects even start, before the debate begins again to settle there, at NATURA. And you tell us about these abnormalities: 'Don't worry about it, nothing will go through 'NATURA', because it will be examined by the S.H.E.'. The opinions of the S.H.E., ladies and gentlemen of the Government do not examine European legislation. They don't consider the Constitution. They are examining a number of formal and legislative issues. Because you're afraid of the Council of State, you're trying to console it by putting it as Vice-President of the Government of the St. Petersburg. and proposing, as President of the Republic of Skopje, President of the Republic of Skopje. Unfortunately, however, it does not help you to understand how this institution works. European legislation and the Constitution are dealt with in the appeals. That's why the S.E. it makes decisions abolishing presidential decrees, which it had given a positive opinion, such as the one recently issued by the High Commissioner. But you also talk about mild growth. Really, where is it defined in this bill or mild growth? You say that the activities that you will bring into NATURA, without a protection plan, will be mild. So tell us a mild activity that you have in mind. Mia! Perhaps the one you thought about doing Article 219. Tell us: What is this activity? What was it that was inhibited? Tell us a mild activity that would require a Strategic Environmental Impact Study or that would go with this administrative arduousness, with these strict standards you say. Tell us one. You don't want mild activities, but tell us what it is that made you bring this article. The climate crisis, of course, is an unknown word to this government. The government, which obviously violates our European obligations, would not respect our laws, as much as your own laws, Mr Deputy Minister. The climate change clause, you told us in the law on the ultimate state, should exist in every piece of your legislation. So where's the climate change clause in this bill? The destruction of the NATURA regions? Your government is making charity efforts to bring us back to the 1960s. Mr. Trump did it. But they kicked him out. And you heard the news? This development of the 1960 type was also condemned with him. Answer us. 'REPSOL', the mining manager in Ionian, Ionian and Epirus, leaves or leaves the continent and the Ionian? Because he's already gone from Haitolo-Carnania. The last one's gonna close the door. Is this how mining will end in Greece? Not through the climatic wisdom of the governments, but because the oil companies are leaving after each other? And even though you'd like them to stay here and do the catastrophe. Your development system has failed. His failure seems to be seen in climate disaster. The destruction of nature, this is the climate crisis. Do you understand? You dissolve the environment, however, as you dissolve people. You brought the bankruptcy code to the worst moment of the crisis, when you are in danger of closing over 60% of the small Greek businesses and bringing them the Code to speed up this bankruptcy. What does the Code provide for? It is predicted by your bankruptcy code that the property of any citizen will be made public when he enters the auction and is inappropriate for the third time. And you do it, to panic them, to run with an early bankruptcy warning mechanism that you brought in and then run after they declare the updated data to their lenders asking for a compromise. It concerns all Greek citizens who owe more than EUR 30 000, have guaranteed EUR 30,000 loans or will inherit or inherit borrowers with loans of more than EUR 30 000, almost all of us. And since they offer their information on the platform and ask for a compromise - they make them a compromise with the lenders - their lenders have no obligation not to bring a counter-proposal, but to respond to them at all. And they can, with the information they now have in their hands, start bankruptcy against all the property and income of the citizens and inform the citizens, after the procedure has begun and without having any right of objection. We call on you, with our amendment, to stop this crime, to stop the Bankruptcy Code. Are you talking about jobs? Are all your aids at the moment for small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed in the form of repayable advances and suspensions? Tell us how these people will be able the next day to pay their tax obligations in the crisis, in the lockdowns? We ask you to abolish them, delete them. But you're entangled in the size of the debt, and you're talking about jobs. But you dare talk and say now if we are in favour of jobs and what the big investment is, which I personally support. So let's see. Help me choose. Let's take your three emblematic investments: The Greek: Tell us how many jobs will be lost? I guess you've investigated it. How many jobs will be lost throughout the whole of trade across southern Athens? Tell us why we cannot understand how in Glyfada and in all regions from the Old Faliro, throughout southern Athens, there are these protests from the trade clubs! Tell us how many places you figure out they'll be lost. For the Squirrels, you have just signed a new contract in English! One company came to Greece and signed a contract in English. We saw in "DENMARK" the sum that is now coming for translation. But that's not the problem. It's the atmosphere. Let's see the problem. In this agreement, you are even abolishing what the previous governments have said to approve this project, that this huge catastrophe will take place, but we will have public revenue. Remove metallurgy and, as you know, unprocessed ore in Greece has no public revenue. I shall be clear on the basis of the answer you have given me in parliamentary scrutiny. The gold mining in Olympiad gave a million euros in five years! That is why the EUR 1 million - I imagine the Skouries will also give you - you are destroying an archaic forest and a whole mountain, Cakavo, which will dehydrate it by drilling down to the level of the sea at the same time as destroying the local economy. It is certainly one of Greece's largest apiculture fields, one of the largest - if not the largest - fishing field in Greece, a guaranteed tourist area with important local PDO products! And the asbestos will leave in tons every day from Skouria in the air over there where he's more dangerous to public health, without public revenue anymore. In mining, tell us: How many tourism businesses will be closed in an accident? But let's leave this part with the unanswered questions. Let's go to the part of climate change. Tell us: How disastrous in common sense are the hydrocarbons extracts for climate change? How destructive is the destruction of the ancient forest? How destructive is it that the biggest metropolitan park in Athens will be cemented? How destructive can that be for the environment? Are we or are we not in the century of the climate crisis, in the century of the ecological crisis? And what do you do about it? What Trump did. Because what we have destroyed is nature, this is the climate crisis, we should first of all not touch what is left of us. That's what we should do. The second thing we should do is save energy in buildings and the third is to change the way we produce it. That is why I have called on you again and again to do what the European Commission says in its 2019 report, that Greece can take the lead in roofing photovoltaics. If you move now and instead of giving back to the major contractors the Recovery Fund, you give it to a massive "I Save Home", which will save all households and at the same time put photovoltaics on the roofs, we will immediately have the production of 30% of our energy consumption from photovoltaics on the roofs without destroying nature. And instead of giving all this money to the five RES contractors and other things that you will give, we would give it to the households to complete their income that collapses in the economic crisis. But what are we now talking about when even the 'green' contracts have lost their way in this draft public procurement bill, the 'green' contracts which we are obliged to have under the European strategy, the 'green' conventions that you have otherwise put into non-legislative binding texts of your own government? You don't understand why they didn't exist in the '60s. Proceed to award projects without environmental studies. Truly, tell us, the people who will be involved in the competition, these contractors, how do they know their real costs when the terms and limitations of environmental studies and approvals have not come out? They do not care and you do not care, because very simply approve any environmental study they will bring you. You legalize "Mall", following and repeating the Venizelos line and Law 3207/2003, which was shot down in the Council of State! But you are so respectful of the Council of State! In Article 57, public works contractors will choose the individual overseeing them. In fact, Mr Minister for Infrastructure, you have announced to us that he will be paid for by the State in which he is being supervised. They will choose who will supervise them - "Yiannis drinks, Yiannis buys" - and we will also pay this process. You exclude contracts below EUR 2,500 from the Central Public Procurement Register, when the limit was 1,000 so far. You reduce the guarantee of good execution from 5% to 4% for the provision of services and you completely exclude any guarantee for contracts of less than EUR 30,000. In the case of contracts awarded directly, you shall abolish the possibility to submit objections and appeals. Re-establish secret funds under Article 226, the arrangements of the National Crisis Management and Risk Management Mechanism. By direct delegation and unpublished and confidential expenditure on the protection of the environment, public health, public order and security, without being made public. A shareholder may give the award ring, when he cannot carry out the work, to the next shareholder. He decides. You understand what this means to air and related things. However, we are pleased that SYRIZA is now considering moving to vote against the bill. The committee was in custody. It makes us wonder. Isn't the cementing of the NATURA under Article 219 enough? Isn't the self-respect of the contractors with our own money?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u54	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President. What else does it need to boldly vote against this bill and still think about it and move towards the vote? Will it withdraw this law as a government? Of course, looking at the history, we understand why it is being reserved. Because it was SYRIZA who signed the PPP of Epirus, Serres, Peloponnese, PPP projects such as Kalamata - Tower - Methoni, student homes of Crete, school buildings of Chania, new building of the Foundation for Medical Research of the Academy of Athens. It's all done with PPP. We recommend that the government withdraw the bill. As for the Minister of Development, let's be clear. It's an X-ray of your government. It says what you believe when he spoke in 2014 with pride about three thousand dismissals of doctors and the closure of hospitals, including the "Lomadon" in Agia Varvara and Agaleo, when he recently asked for the keys to the catering business and when he says it's an honor to be found by environmental organisations, because it means that you're doing something well. Mr. Georgiadis says what you think he's saying. He's just saying it unpopularly. Because how else can we judge the fact that Mr. Mitsotakis told Ermitis that this beautiful, untouched forest area of Corfu will at some point be burned, so the investor will do well and move on? He had nothing to be jealous of by his Minister of Development and the Vice-President of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Arseni, you've been 20 minutes. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. We urge you to withdraw Article 19, withdraw the bill and retire as government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u58	We enter the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Because there are too many speakers who have said and still have not spoken to the parliamentary representatives, I would ask that we keep the time, because I do not see the end before twelve. The Members of Parliament who will plead to speak will be given the floor after three or four speakers. The same applies to the ministers, of course, apart from the ministers who will come to support for the amendments they have tabled for a while. Mr. Karamanlis is here. Mr Karamanlis, at any time you want to take the floor for the amendment, tell us. Mr Stamenitis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of Mera25, you will obviously have heard that this government is carrying out and will implement a major ambitious programme for 'Security', which will reach EUR 3 billion. At least recognize that he's taking important steps, unless you don't see that either. Today, then, we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment, which reforms the existing legislative framework governing the procurement procedures of public bodies, services and works. At the same time, programming issues are also being regulated in the area of defence and security. The fact is that during the joint meetings of the committees a thorough dialogue was held. In many parts of the bill there has also been constructive criticism from Opposition. Entities were placed. They expressed their views. They were positive for the majority of them. We have also had the legislative improvements that have arisen since the debate in the committees. However, there are also issues that have been strongly criticised, particularly the question of private supervision, which I shall be addressing in detail today's position. Unjust and hypocritically in the last few days, SYRIZA has criticised. Hypocritically, because SYRIZA, who reacts to the question of the introduction of the private project and study monitoring institution, is SYRIZA who, in 2019 with the e.g. 71/2019, provided for the establishment of the Management Adviser’s Register, which you accused us yesterday of having failed. However, under the current Article 136 of Law 4412, it introduced the concept of the delegation and assistance of the head office in the private sector and, indeed, not only in supervision, but also in the management of the project. The Minister told you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, but you appear today as if you did not understand what you have voted on. I think you know what you have voted for and you understand very well. But for many years you have taken up your familiar attitude, that is, your opposition work as a permanent and sterile criticism of the levelling-up of everything. And what you didn't say. Irrespective of what you told us, we served our interests, you said, that we were opening windows and doors to our complexion. And I say unfairly, because you have not yet answered the question of whether this practice is being adopted for the first time, namely the private engineers who are helping to defend the public interest. I would like to mention the first example. In the case of building auditors, what exactly is the case? What's going on? Do you know that private engineers are involved in public-processed procedures? Do you agree or not with the building auditors? You wondered why we don't have a new generation of arbitrary people? Have private engineers, in this case, covered weaknesses, subsistence of town planning services, yes or no? Is that, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, and is this the application of the concept of a state-fed, as you told us in committee? Another example: Great works, the motorways would have been built? And I'm referring to those who every two kilometers of you were inaugurating. Isn't the same with PPP projects? The main objective of private supervision is to make supervision effective, but also to enable public services human resources to be dealt with with other, equally important issues. In addition, public procurement and study control remains in the management department, which remains the key auditor and assessor of the project implementation course and can take measures and impose sanctions. What's changing? The head office can choose who will assist its work, be an official of the public service, or a private engineer, who will obviously be paid by the project. And not any individual, but accredited and registered in a special register, for which there will be transparent public selection criteria, specific deadlines and strict sanctions if the latter violates the laws. We are ensuring, ladies and gentlemen, that the public, which we give him the opportunity to choose additional tools and do not transfer any power to private individuals, as counter-population repeats itself, but does not justify it. I think, however, that you need to reassess your attitude and not to blame, not to leave shadows to a large part of society, highlighting private engineers. He has to end this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have in front of us a bill that solves problems, simplifies procedures. As the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, rightly pointed out, it is based on and unfolding the changes that bring about the three-fold speed, efficiency and transparency. Through an analysis of the provisions that one can, by reading, make clear in the legislative text, the direction chosen by the Government of New Democracy in particular in the area of public works. It is time for the country to acquire a comprehensive, modern, flexible and enforceable legislative framework that will be a real tool for creating more and more quality projects. And the SYRIZA who brought in and voted for a law that he amended three hundred and eighty-five times. But is that possible? We have heard the criticism that the bill is handy because it provides for seventy-seven acts of secondary legislation to be adopted. Please check how many CSRs, how many presidential decrees and how many ministerial decisions were provided for by Law 4412. I could, Mr President, analyse many more, such as the substantial changes introduced by this draft law and the contradictions that the criticism of counterpopulation shows, but this, unfortunately, is not possible due to time. Let me just say that the arrangements, such as the strengthening of the design system - manufacturing, such as the parallel evolution of the tendering process of the project and the procedure for the adoption of environmental conditions, which we are earning time with this, such as dealing with the phenomenon of major discounts, but also the introduction of the administrative solution for projects of over 10 million, the treatment of delays in major project deliveries, the abolition of draw-ups for committees which have created problems in the municipalities and regions, the abolition of the compulsory annual listing for the awardability and streamlining of limits of direct awards, are all regulations that will make a decisive contribution to achieving the main objective. And he is no other than transparent, simplified project implementation procedures in times that we have been seeing almost all over Europe, but not in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my position, I would like to say this: always when we vote on a bill, it is necessary to examine the social and economic conditions in which we are in. Today we are a year and a few days from imposing the first restrictions, a difficult option in terms of public health, which has also brought significant consequences to the country's economy. SYRIZA has the logic that we need to press paste, stop, and when the pandemic comes through, we see. However, we New Democracy MPs, the Government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the heads of the Ministries have shown that pandemic is not an alibi for delays, but is a factor in speeding up the major changes and reforms, as we presented them to Greek citizens in an election. So today's draft law is another one of our election commitments. It is the part of our vision for Greece of tomorrow, the construction of which the Greek people trusted us. We are implementing the demand of the world of engineers, companies and local government, and we are doing what the whole world has asked us to do with this draft law. We also call on you to review your position and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Stamenitis. Ladies and gentlemen, I made a mistake before and said that we would not finish by 12 o'clock at night. It is in two days' time, but in view of the fact that we may also have concentrations outside, please keep the time if we can stop at 6 p.m. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today in plenary the draft government bill, which seeks to amend the legal framework for the award and performance of public contracts. In fact, the title of the bill that speaks of simplifying and reforming the regulatory framework is very optimistic. In fact, our ministers are explaining that it is necessary for this amendment to accelerate projects and to absorb the funds of the NRP and the Recovery Fund. It is, though, isn't it? Does the draft law achieve the real simplification of the framework, or does it create additional arrhythmias in the legal framework for the implementation of the projects? In my opinion, it is absolutely wrong to make such wide-ranging changes to a law that, after many amendments - that is true - accepted by its vote to date, is completely functional. But is it really the government's aim to facilitate the execution of public contracts? No, it's categorically not. The draft law, as it is clear, has as main objectives the degradation of the role of public technical services and public engineering and the simultaneous absolute privatisation of the execution of public works and of the supervision of studies, the transformation of the TEI into a system for the award of projects and studies, the deterioration of the position of small and medium-sized technical undertakings for the benefit of large technical undertakings, such as the guarantee system which is only designed for large technical undertakings and therefore small ones will not be able to enter into this system, the deterioration of the protection of the environment as a result of a number of anti-environmental regulations by the government. Other colleagues have said that today twenty-nine environmental organisations send a letter to the Prime Minister on the withdrawal of Article 219. I'll talk about it later. However, the amendment you have tabled is a disaster for the environment. I'll talk about that in a minute. The fact that environmental authorisation is excluded for the award of design projects - construction with the obligation to complete the contractor's finality is a regulation that is extremely problematic. Really, what if environmental licensing changes the study? For example, with regard to waste and waste management units, which are often done with a study - manufacturing, it is very likely that the environmental study will change the substance of the project. What happens in this case? Will the contest be cancelled, or - what you want - will the environmental licensing be subject to the need for timely implementation of the project? In the committees I have heard Mr Karamanlis tell us that the private supervision arrangements enhance the role of public services. Really, Mr. Karamanlis, you're the only one who realizes it that way. The whole technical world, the civil engineers, but also the whole Opposition, say that these regulations not only degrade the role of public technical services, but also degrade the quality of projects. All of this is done by increasing public expenditure on the implementation of the project. And we now hear colleagues from the Co-Place saying "but you had also created engineers to assist the management of the project." Yeah, helping out, not substituting. Don't you understand that? The non paper doesn't explain it to you well. The costs of the private supervisory body's services will be borne by the project itself, thus increasing the cost of carrying out the project. It is obvious that the individual - overseeing the contractor or the designer - is dependent, because they are actually going to go down as a pair in the tenders, since they are proposed in advance by the contractor or the designer, who will be the supervisor. Technical twins are therefore created, which will go down to various competitions, which will have common interests. It is therefore obvious that the individual - overseeing will defend the interest of the contractor or scholar and, indeed, at additional costs for the project. And I hear what you're telling us about PPPs. So you say 'good, in the PPPs, there is no private supervision'. Yes, but the PPPs operate the project themselves. So any discount on the quality of the project will be paid by the private person himself. This is where he'll hand us the play and leave. Do you understand that or not? In addition, you say that in the case of private supervision there will be no designated engineer overseeing from the head office. What does that mean? That the service is essentially alienated from the implementation of the project. So any control acts will actually have no value, they will be unavoidable. The changes provided for in the project auction will create a favourable environment for large construction companies for the guarantee system, as I said before and will obviously make it difficult for small and medium-sized technical companies. It is clear that the arrangement to diversify bids from 10% of the average discount will lead to virtual preconsumable bids to form the average. We have experienced this before, ladies and gentlemen, do not make the same mistakes again! And at the same time restore the arrangement for the construction consortium, which will actually lead to a cartel. So what are they gonna do? They'll make the offer, and then those who didn't get the project will cooperate with the one who took it. Just stuff! We've been through this before. Why do you come back to things that have proved wrong? Evidently, once again, you are also going through anti-Semitic arrangements. How do you manage to do this in law for projects to bring counter-engineering arrangements and delete the APR's certificate for breaches of technical companies, I do not understand that. Mr. Brutsi, they really get over you, it seems to me. And now we're going to Article 219. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Mr. President. The position of Mr Georgiadis on the committees that Article 219 is necessary to enable investors to answer what they will do when they want to do projects in NATURA areas is absolutely revealing. You've prepared the deals, they're all set. And you bring this arrangement photographically for specific cases. It's clear what you're doing, you legislate on the order of specific interests. What are you doing? You are also essentially committed to specific environmental studies for NATURA because these sub-regions studies will be binding on the whole region. So, in fact, you are destroying the NATURA regions for the service of specific interests. I'm closing with the two amendments. With one amendment tabled by us as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, we are calling for the aid given by the MAGPs to small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the pandemic and for them to be inconsistent and tax-free.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u62	Finish, Mr. Colleague, because you've spent nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u63	Yes, I shall conclude with that, Mr President. And you also brought Amendment 766, where Article 3 refers to the suspension of execution of demolition and elimination protocols up to 31-10-2021. Really, how much more anti-environmental can you become? At the moment there are arbitrarily on all the beaches, on all the saints, and you inhibit demolition protocols. And to ask you a simple question: an arbitrary that has been stopped by a mandate from the Land Office and has been deaf, is it not even a business, a deaf, will it not be demolished? We're gonna leave it there? So anti-environmental can you be? How much longer? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Santorinier. Mr. Hetas has asked for the floor. For now, Mr. Heta, or after a while?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u65	After five, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u66	Good. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u67	I'm sorry, in the first circle, don't the parties talk, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u68	You want to talk? Mr Katrin, the first parliamentary representative to speak is Mr Hetas, he has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u69	I don't know why the list came out like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u70	Mr Santorinios spoke in his place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I am sorry, in the first circle of speakers, one of each party speaks and then the list begins. I don't know why the list was made today without this show being kept.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u72	That's how the list has been set. I'm following the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u73	But since it's with proposals from the parties, they weren't written.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u74	That's what the parties have agreed, that's what I've got. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor. Please keep the time. For everyone, I'm saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Today's draft law seeks an important effort to correct pathogens in the field of public procurement as an essential prerequisite for our country to become a developmental orbit. Public procurement is intertwined in citizens' consciousness with opacity, inefficiency and enormous delays. The government and our Prime Minister have taken up today's legislative initiative, which directly solves many of the years' problems in the award and execution of public contracts. The main principles of the bill are the use of electronic means, the elimination of time-consuming procedures and the safeguarding of conditions of transparency and legality. From 1-9-2021 all contracts with a value of more than EUR 30,000 - not of EUR 60,000, as has been the case to date - are being carried out through the National System of Electronic Public Procurement. This change will facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises and the cooperation of smaller companies, which will now be able to withstand simple, easy and accessible procedures for all to claim the award of a public contract for small-scale projects. One of the major innovations in the draft law that gives immediate solutions to the problems facing small municipalities in particular is the improvement of the framework for technical services. The contracting authorities themselves and not the competent Minister shall determine whether they have technical competence. The part of the monitoring and supervision of the project provided for in the notice may be entrusted to a certified private supervisory body registered in the respective register. The payment costs of the entity are covered exclusively by the contractor, while the administration and the staff of the private entity have a criminal liability of a civil servant. Specifically for small contracting authorities for projects of EUR 60,000 - 1,000,000 euros, supervision can be carried out by accredited private engineers by project category, following a draw from the register. These procedures are very useful for small and island communities and are enthusiastically accepted by the mayors of the small municipalities at least in Magnesia, where there are insurmountable difficulties, due to the lack of staff in technical services. And programme contracts with regions were usually one-way, but still constitute a time-consuming option. In the Magnesia Prefecture, the Municipality of Zagora - Muresi has only one engineer, while the municipality of South Pelion and the islands of Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos have serious subspecies problems. In simplifying procedures, the contracting authority may use specialised consultants for projects worth more than EUR 30 000, aiming at reducing the time required for the preparatory stage. Procedures shall be accelerated by providing for the opening of the competitive procedure and before environmental authorisations, which shall, however, be given before the contractor is declared. The contracting authority is required for projects exceeding EUR 1,000 000 to post the construction study on its website at least two months before the competition. A very important incentive for contractors is the provision of an additional payment in the form of a premium of 5% of the contractual remuneration in the event of the project being completed in less than 10% of the contracted amount. And this for projects of great value, over a million euros. In other words, for the first time, logic and techniques that are absolutely self-evident in the private sector are introduced and achieve better levels of efficiency. The system in force to date is amended to transfer the burden of responsibility to the contractor in relation to the measurements. Given the practical inability to carry out continuous checks, it is reasonable to move to a declaratory system. Thus, the contraaor must document the work in a responsible manner with the provision of penalties in the event of inaccurate declarations, while the principal shall carry out surprise checks of at least 20% of the measurements. Apart from speed, better quality conditions are ensured in project execution. In the event of a subcontractor being awarded a part of the contract, the contracting authority itself shall have the power to check its professional suitability by predetermining the quality factor. A mathematical formula is provided for determining the most advantageous offer, based on the best possible quality-price correlation. In the same direction, it is precisely the unusually low tenders to avoid situations of patentation at an extremely small price at a risk that the contractor will never complete the project or project under quality. The draft updates the framework for contracts to better meet the needs of the Armed Forces. The decision of the Ministry of Defence on the means needed by the Armed Forces is updated every three years and not every five years and the long-term planning of defence equipment is sooner than 12 years instead of 15 years. EUR 30,000,000 instead of EUR 50,000, the approval of the expenditure by the KYSEA, following the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committee and the recommendation of the Minister of National Defence. Urban planning makes it possible to digit all building permit files in the system or licenses. This until the end of 2023 or, after a decision of the Minister for the Environment, until the end of 2025. At the same time, all necessary approvals that are a prerequisite for the issue of a building permit are received electronically. Finally, in an effort to support enterprises at this difficult time, it is foreseen that the aid provided by the ESDP for the creation of the ‘e-shop’ is also tax-free and irresponsible. Finally, public procurement is a complex and particularly problematic chapter in our country. The enormous effort to reform the institutional framework which is being made today is inevitable, in order to dynamically move on to public projects contributing to the development prospects and to the growth of employment. Many provisions are groundbreaking for Greek data. We are creating a framework for modern and efficient public procurement, including terms of the private economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u76	Thank you too, Mr Ljupe, for keeping time. You are, as always, in time. Mr. Georgios Arvanitis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the fourth month of horizontal banning measures because of pandemic and, unfortunately, the health and economic situation in the country does not inspire any optimism. We're back to everything. We are back in vaccination, we are back in the markers of the economy, with an unprecedented recession accumulating thousands of problems that, unfortunately, we will all find before us, citizens, businesses and the state. And close to it is the political climate of days that moves to polarization, and the last thing we need now are new divisions and micro-political tactics. As a unique opportunity to escape this grim picture, the use of the recovery fund and the 'green agreement', Europe's 'Green Deal', are projecting to make use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. The fund will enter the market, enter the economy through public contracts. In fact, public investment is the main burden of sustainable development with the rapid absorption of funds from the Recovery Fund. The big bet, however, is not only to absorb European funds quickly from the fund, but to create investment that is viable and resilient. Sustainability and durability are the words ‘keys’ and the necessary conditions for each project now being carried out. Sustainable and resilient public infrastructure and networks projects with speed and simple rules of transparency and accountability should include and aim at a modern draft law on public procurement with the mandatory use of the ESA and KYMDIS systems for all contracts with the mandatory use of electronic procedures for specific categories of procurement of goods and services and not by increasing the limits for direct awards, which not only serves the objective of transparency, but comes as a continuation of aggregation and by way of derogation in the last months of your governance, where this procedure has become a rule. Finally, with this bill you are unfortunately preparing the management environment of the Recovery Fund in your measures. And therefore, instead of sustainability, durability and transparency being the key pillars of a new public procurement law and integrating the dimension of the climate crisis into the draft law that we are discussing today, we see that your choice is to bring regulations like Article 219, which, as I appreciate, Minister, will create more problems than will solve. I'll come back to that later. Our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, has asked you the simple question: why do you not incorporate some of the very interesting proposals from the national action plan which you have announced very recently in order to promote green procurement, such as giving the public a good example and setting ecological criteria to its supplies, such as the supply of buses or investing citizens' money in projects that do not contribute to climate change or adapt us to it? I would remind you that about a year ago, in January 2020, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection had organised a two-day seminar on environmental, climate and responsible investments. Why don't you take all these conclusions and suggestions that have been put forward in the parliamentary procedure and you're just coming before the start of the procedures for the integration of projects into the Recovery Fund to bring in a bill, which you will actually be forced to revise in the direction I have described, in the direction of sustainability and durability through green, public procurement and investment? Apart from the above shortcomings, however, it is also a matter of the fact that the ganger you call "delays" in public works, in public procurement, not only is it not dealt with effectively, but, unfortunately, with the arrangements you bring, it seems to be perpetuating. Seventy-seven ministerial decisions and presidential decrees will only be needed for the application of Article 139, while tens of others will be needed for the other articles in the bill. The large number of ministerial decisions to implement the new law will certainly lead to delays in its implementation, as the bodies have stressed during their hearing. I don't want to be equivalent, of course, but this bill is not an incision. It is not the part that the public procurement sector needs to run faster and in terms of sustainability. There are, of course, provisions that we will support, such as the support of the state-owned domestic defence industry. However, we cannot support Article 219, which insists on the government and especially on the Minister for Development, and which defends it with particular passion. You know that environmental organisations are asking for the withdrawal of the article. Citizens' signatures are being collected with an online campaign and they have just sent a letter to the Prime Minister. They consider that its provisions are contrary to what Union and national legislation presupposes and that we will lead to a deterioration of the protected areas of the country and possible new sentences by the European Court of Justice, which just last December condemned our country for oligopoly in protecting biodiversity in the NATURA regions. The Nature 2000 Committee, which is a central scientific advisory body of the State for the Conservation of Biodiversity, expresses its particular scepticism and proposes that it be withdrawn. What we see here, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government does not apply the legal framework that it has passed and changed the rules and procedures again. And I refer to No.4685 last May, which had regulated and moved on to the balance of the NATURA regions. The argument put forward by the Minister for Development is that some soft investments will be promoted more quickly, but of course it does not say what they are. But I'm afraid that won't happen. On the contrary, new time-consuming procedures will be added and additional costs will be borne by the greatest uncertainty. It is wrong to create special schemes in the NATURA regions by cutting out areas from the wider region. It is the same mistake that SYRIZA made with the famous settlements, violet in the forest maps, which then fell into the Council of State. To make Dutch cheese the protected areas, unfortunately only green development is not. The Change Movement is balanced, sustainable development, where nature will be effectively protected and not just as valuable wealth to be attributed to the younger generations. That is why, instead of bringing such provisions, you must bear all your weight so that all specific environmental studies on protected areas can be accelerated and completed immediately and all the resources available and resources can be used, not to resort here, to the logic of derogations and special schemes. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that this bill is inferior to the circumstances, despite any improvements it makes. It is not part of this, and unfortunately it does not incorporate the requirements of the times for the greening of public contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u78	Thank you for the time too. Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas will then speak and immediately thereafter Mr Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA. Come on, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very often there is a debate on the subject of 'public procurement' and what exactly is public is public, and we have not yet managed to distinguish two things which are complementary and do not necessarily, as some believe, necessarily conflict. The public contract is absolutely what is of benefit to the public, which is of benefit to everyone. It is not necessarily the state. State power, state energy, the state body, the state business exists next to the private sector. The public contract is above both. It owes it in different ways each time, whoever is the right, to go and serve the interests of the whole, making every single body do a particular job. In this, unfortunately, which I think is now being used by all the developing states, the understanding agreement, we have not yet managed to reach an agreement, because many of us continue to believe that the state is the state. It's over. That is, in my opinion, also a significant misunderstanding. When he says in his provisions the proposed draft law that I can put a private body, a private company, a private engineer, oversee and control, he does something very correctly. The forces of the country are out there, not all are gathered in the offices of ministries and state agencies. He's out in society. What's the matter with the state? And here I think the bill makes a step forward, just so the state, the Minister, the State Secretary, the director responsible, can do his job better. The work of the state is to check the procedures carefully, so to know that the private person does the work he has ordered him to do and pay for his indirect action, of course, because of the cost of the project. So we're going to a much better private supervision and a greater assignment of responsibility where there really has to be. Instead of trying to force the state, the mechanisms, the address, the subdirection, the municipality, the city, the town, which is being systematically done and which has led to a terrifying corruption, and when there cannot be corruption too often, there is a involvement until the one who is called to sign it, I think that allows everyone to have better visual, greater transparency in the projects and ultimately much better control. A simple approach to this issue exists, if we look at the change made to Article 151 of Law 4412. Until now under the pressure of the troika - the gentlemen of today's Opposition have accepted this, without knowing exactly what they are doing, without perhaps believing it, hoping that nothing will happen, practically that they have fallen in - nothing has happened, not much things that could and should have gone ahead. So what did he say? It required public administration to respond to a specific time, say in forty-five days, and if it did not respond, it was considered the answer given, positive. It wasn't a bad arrangement. It was a arrangement to push the public to do his job. Unfortunately, however, the public raised their hands high, as often happens, and did not respond, the answer was automatically positive and then some sort of control would once again be carried out, of course, with problems that may exist in the area of corruption during checks. Here the regulation that is being made, I think, is very good for the very simple reason, that it makes the person seeking to do something, to be honest, correct, controlled and self-controlled. It is, in my opinion, very strong. If you don't do your job properly and finally the public, the state comes and exposes you, you'll be exposed to what should count more than what is your reputation and which is the situation on the market for each one of them who will take over the projects. Self-control must be an extremely important principle in the way our society operates, the economy. Otherwise we simply have no confidence in anyone, and we believe that the official who will ultimately be assigned - and who is very often outdated by his work and the facts and the complexity of the projects too often - is enough to do what is being defended here these days, in the committee and today by many colleagues. The other point is that there is literally no time to lose. So there must be a way to find what was left and gone days, times, months and the weather was over and nothing happened. Because yes, we have lost a great deal of time between 2015 and 2018, very much - these three years are like losing some, if you are carefully counting, ten, we have lost a decade in just three years - but at the moment we do not have that possibility. Because in the other crisis there was a new crisis, and we need to take the chance at least. So that the Minister comes here and asks us to make it easier, to make it easier for society and the economy, that is something that should not always pass - I understand the purpose of the party - of a closed concept of what our society is and how our society works. I therefore think that if we want the upgrading, which we expect to start, in the next few months, the economy to go to the development that promises the funds available, we need an accelerator. And the right accelerator is the control of works, the control of contracts, the real public procurement with regard to public procurement as we have seen them. On the subject of Article 219, Mr President, there is a misunderstanding. When the NATURA regions were built - I have walked at least thirty of them and I have a direct experience of them, but others that I do not know personally have looked at them very carefully - unfortunately they were made in a hurry, as is very often the case here, so that we can go on the checks that Europe should have and put them forward by the year 2000 to be ready. Unfortunately, you know that very well, it's not the job that should have been done. These areas should be redefined - they would be exactly the same limits, with those characteristics - but on the basis of studies. So when it comes now with the 219 regulation and says that it will be compulsory for each project, all in turn - environmental study, feasibility study, approval of where it is needed, by the Council of State or by other supervisory authorities - I think that we are ensuring each one separately, rather than saying in general and indefinitely, as Mr Arseni does very systematically. All right, there might be applause from that side. But, in fact, what is going to count is the specific protection of the environment and not, in general, 'I do nothing, I do nothing', that is, a regime which is still unclear today and is certainly not at the moment when Mr Karamanlis or the other ministers who sign the draft law will resolve it. Let's take a step forward every time we get the chance, and that will take us a lot of steps. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Papadimitriou. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, we wish that everything is fine, because we had a very big earthquake a while ago, focusing on Elassona, 6 Richter. The people in Larissa are on the streets. We had a very big earthquake a few minutes ago. Greece is, unfortunately, tested even nature seems to react and punish us. We must really hope that there are no translocations and that they have not been damaged and, of course, we do not have any victims. So far it seems to be a controlled situation. Mr Minister, if I wished to put a title in today's bill, that title would be the following: 'Koronotti, normal coronary, with direct assignments'. I will make a few references to the bill and then you will allow me, Minister, and Members of Parliament of the New Democracy, to go to some other issues. You know, public works in Greece, when they hear public works, are a very great wound. It's a ganger real, squandering public money without any end. Big delays, deferrals, opaque procedures. It's the first thing that comes to everyone's mind who listens to us now when he hears about public works. The truth is that, on the pretext of now, you are simplifying everything I have described and the procedures for all of us are being violated here. I'm going to stay on two or three things that I really think we should highlight and listen to. In this respect with private individuals, we too are in favour of private initiative, but always in some principles and in a specific way. In other words, it is not possible for private individuals to replace the public and take a key and effective role in supervising. I will now tell you: the contractor of a public project - i.e. I am a contractor and want another public project - will be supervised by a private engineer - see now, a private engineer of the TEI - and the private engineer hired to control the contractor will be paid by the contractor. Hey, you guys can't do that stuff! Excuse me, that is, the project supervisor will be paid by the man who has undertaken to oversee! These things don't happen, or it's probably about what you guys bring. Minister, that's not what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u82	All over Europe!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u83	All over Europe? We are not bringing the good of Europe. All the strangest things in Europe we bring here. It's awesome! There are other things in Europe. I'll tell you later. I shall refer to Denmark and other countries. But you don't. I'll tell you right away. But tell me there too, 'Europe will do it, and Greece will do it'. Will you do it? I'll tell you in a minute. And it is certainly not in favour of transparency that an increase in the direct award of EUR 20,000 to EUR 30 000 - is not transparent, it does not sound very transparent to me - nor the increase in the threshold for contracts exempted from the EUR 1 000 to EUR 2 000 - is it too transparent. Why would that happen? And here you help your friends. Now, in Article 220, which is also in your area, Minister, on national provincial roads on motorways within the airport area, it is permitted to display an outdoor plaque, advertising, according to Law 2946/2001. In essence, that is to say, we empower the 'FRAPORT' to exploit airport ads and put labels on the streets. Mr Kelles, the Chairman of the Committee on Road Aid, is here. Mr. President, this is what it says about advertising signs. What's going on? Do you know how much deadly traffic these plates have happened? Do you know what race the families of the victims' relatives have given for these signs? And you go back and put your license plates back on. But, apart from the bill, Minister, you know that everyday life is this and the huge problem with the coronary. You will allow me to tell you that you are a gambler government. That's what you're doing. You are a government "joggard". What are you doing? You bet the lives and properties of the Greeks on national bets, so you describe them as all that you have failed. All bets have failed. First big national bet you said back then. "National bet", Mr Karamanlis, "the vaccine" you said. Fiasco and the way it comes, at the rate it comes, at the speed of vaccination and of substance in everyday life. The vaccine has been said too many times that it is not panacea. We've been yelling at you from the start. Nothing. I go to examples of other countries. See what's going on in Israel. It has been vaccinated over 50% of the population. He's not like us at a kindergarten. However, cases and intrusions and deaths exist. They show no improvement, despite the fact that more than 50% was vaccinated. Second national bet of the New Democracy, you gambled and lost. National bet, and that's lost. What? The masks! At first, not at all. Then a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u84	Please come to our point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I shall speak as a parliamentary representative on some topical issues. I made a reference to the bill. You will allow me, Mr President, to do my job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u86	No, I'm not forbidden. I'm just reminding you of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u87	Then the masks became mandatory and now double masks. Second lost bet! You remember, you pussy situations! The third national bet - and this is lost - is the horizontal ban on all economics - I will not say it lockdown - and social activity. Because that's what's happening. We'd warned that it's disastrous what you're doing. It's a huge mistake. You ruined the economy without such an important reason. Because you see the results. Since November we have been from a locker to a locker, locker to a locker, four months and you see that doesn't work after all. And the economy is ruined and it doesn't work. We had warned and listened to Mr. Pinger yesterday saying this and it's creepy. Listen to what the Deputy Minister of Finance said. He said that every week it costs 200 million euros, that is, it costs 800 million euros, Minister. What does "cost" mean? That the state pays - no, it does not collect, because it does not collect 3 billion a month - and 800 million a month! That's what Mr. Skulakakis said. That's the floor you've put into. See what's going on in Texas. Did you read today what happened? The governor of Texas decided and said 'end of mandatory mask and the market opens 100%'. The big bet now for the Greek people is this really incompetent government or mind or I don't know what else to do. And what are you doing, Minister? Listen. A deadline is given, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, until 1 March to pay the traffic charges, this scandal, the robbery. A Greek people who are locked in his house cannot be released, forced to pay the traffic charges and one day after the deadline comes Mrs Pelonis and tells us that under the number '6' there will be only the pedestrians outside, you are prohibited from driving, that is, a car ban, one day after the last citizen has gone and paid the traffic charges. Now what is this? What is it? Tell us. It's not Greek's fault. It's your fault with the inability to handle things. You have done as a government, Mr Karamanlis and Mr Parliamentary, many crimes in here - and if you wish, then I have no problem, we are in favour of dialogue - because it is good to talk about big and serious. Lots of crimes. What do I first remember? In the last bills that we had here, we saved the country and the lot that you spoke about on the day of national minorities. For the little C.T.T. you wanted to get Evros up the world. You didn't do anything. The extension? What extension? Out of Evros' CYPD. At the same time, with the Greek people looking at smuggled, locked, poored all this situation, you legislate and give money and homes to illegal immigrants entering, light up the green light for the auctions in June for the Greeks, and lose his home, i.e. the one who locked in his house. You've really done this with the coronary. Laws - empires and so-called fights between you and all the scandal that has arisen, these emesis with Lignand, with the pedophiles, while not looking at the substance. The essence is what we are saying: Hurricane - corps, chemical castration and real life. The law must be dissuasive and not as an empire. You're fond of them. That's what you're doing. You are giving LGBTKI privileges at the same time as this society should and angomaha, green light, New Democracy, Mr Brutsis, to 15-year-old children for gender change. That's what you bring. That's what you legislate. Is that the image of the New Democracy? I will not discuss the Ambassadors' agreement, that the state has continued. I will not tell you that you still have not found rapporteurs to bring the three contracts with Skopje to ratification and they are waiting four months in. I'm not going to say about Greek-Turkish, about the subtle you're showing. So we say no to The Hague crime. And that's why we're telling you that patriotism proves in practice. You're only words. And we say why the days are coming - we were talking about them last March and October - and now in March - this parade on 25 March must be done properly. You played enough with both the holy and loyal Greeks. It should be done properly. And we're going to some other issues very seriously, which you have to see. It's not, you know, a micropolitical thing for us to pet some ears. This reality and the sooner you wake up, the less damage our homeland will suffer. What do I mean, Mr. Parliamentary? Gratine. Rhodope Mountains. Do you know the village? Nigerian comanto - I will put them all at the end in the Minutes, but please read them - which speak impeccably Turkish, with bats in the hands, surrounded a shepherd the other day, illegal ones, with detailed satellite maps in their hands, photographing and recording the area using drone. These are creepy things. Let's go to the Evros vineyards, Mr. Brutsi. Every day they enter homes and cause disaster. Yesterday they heard about 3:00 a.m. in the morning shooting. They've got guns, they're now trained as a quantum. And we make structures on the front line of Evros? At the same time, the Turkish Ministry of Defence - not us - on twitter on his official page shows us the training of Somalis in the training centre of special forces in Turkey. That's what they do. Do what Denmark has done, Mr Karamanlis. Here is what Europe is doing: Denmark today, therefore, tells the Syrians to return to their country, as there is no war. That's what Denmark does. Will you do it? Europe is doing it. There's no war anymore, the country is safe, it says, to return to your homeland. Denmark's doing it. We are not looking at this, however, and we are looking at financing ELIAMEP, the incomprehensible statements made by Mr Thanos Veremi of ELIAMEP. This gentleman, I wonder why the Greek Government and the Ministry are funding such institutions as ELIAMEP. Awesome! What did he say? He did not hesitate publicly to predict that in the near future Turkey will attack and not only will hesitate Greek islands, but also Kastelorizo. This man can't figure out what his role is and what his interests are. A brief comment, Mr President, on what the procedure has started today in plenary, on the Koufontina case. Look at democracy is certainly not avenged, but it must protect citizens from serial killers, drug dealers, pedophiles and any other dangerous criminal. And when we say life, we mean life. But you, New Democracy and SYRIZA, are using this to rally your party audience. Question, Mr. Minister, Mr. Brutsi, why are you legislating here? The Minister for Civil Protection comes here and legislates. Amid a pandemic every day we have outside protests. We're talking about a sanitary bomb. Why don't you apply the law you voted on? Why do you allow the protests every day? This is a health bomb, beyond anything else, from ideological, born by new terrorists in a potential way in there. I'm not talking about that. The new generation. But why don't you forbid them? After you've passed a law? What are you doing with laws? For the air? Is it for the show? Apply the laws. But you don't. And I close, Mr President, by calling, like our President, as a Greek Solution, for the immediate integration, Mr Minister, of the policemen, who are again running the snake out of the hole into the heavy and unhealthy professions. That's what the Greek Solution is asking. We ask that at least police officers be included in the category of heavy and unhealthy professions from an insurance point of view. At least do the basics. Leave the words and act on the basics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's bill is being discussed in difficult circumstances, a new climax of the pandemic, and this very much limits the debate we would like to have in this House. I don't know if that's what the government wants. In any case, it has brought us a bill that is immature, has a very large part of secondary legislation and will not be implemented quickly and easily. So it calls into question both the NSRF and the Recovery Fund and all the major projects that Greece must go forward. But I would say that he uses as a pretext the need to speed up actions arising from Law 4412 to achieve two basic things: The first is to privatise many functions of our country and reduce the state, not only to privatise, but also to limit the possibilities of the Greek state and municipalities. In fact, through this process of privatisation - particularly supervision, but also other functions - it is trying and will do better in designing Mr Karamanlis and his colleagues to restructure the technical market. So only large fish can withstand and cannot small and medium-sized mechanical manufacturers cope with the competition of rotating doors, that is to say, he himself is a scholar, overseer, manufacturer, and things are settled, so as to say, as Mr Georgiadis understands, who is the head of mind from what he decides behind the bill. The second is that through this bill - in a large, if you like, part of Article 219, but also another article - it also confers environmental protection on Greece. In other words, it reduces the rules on environmental protection and European obligations, and this also reduces the country's development capital, because when in Greece, in the sun and Aegean and sea countries you reduce the quality of natural capital is like reducing the money you have in your pocket, as if you were reducing the capital, income, labour. This is disastrous, because it does so to environmental licensing. In practice, this bill is, I believe, what New Democracy is doing today in Greece: it is povertying Greece, it is taking it behind Europe, behind Europe's regularity, it is, unfortunately, plucking out private property, but at the same time, it fuels corruption and complexity. And Article 219 of the environment is a form of interactive and corruption, and many more are done and done with too many articles in the bill and Mr Karamanlis also has responsibility for this. Privatisation of supervision is a corruption shop in the construction of works. Let's say it clearly, that the Greek citizen knows. The joint result: the deterioration of our country, the reduction of the powers and the rights of citizens, and, unfortunately, in other areas, this government also reduces its democracy. In Article 219, which is the main issue, where it reduces environmental licensing in Greece and limits the country's natural capital, first of all, the Ministry of Development suddenly appears in the environment. Where and where? No one's ever figured it out. In Europe no one, Mr Karamanlis, certainly. I am telling you that very clearly. Where is the Ministry of the Environment, ask a question? Mr. Screkas is generally absent. I'm guessing he's coming to sign the fine. Because the fine for this article will be hundreds of millions of euros. Then, Mr Karamanlis - I say it for the Minutes - I will look for you and Mr Georgiadis and Mr Skrekas, but above all, Mr Mitsotakis. Don't hide, because the fine for this article will be too big. How hypocritical you are about environmental issues is that within such an article that renders the country's natural environment, you have also brought an amendment not to demolition. Good for you! Very nice! In other words, you are clearly saying to all the citizens who see us that we have neither the political capacity nor the operational capacity to resolve what port projects must remain and what to demolish and delay demolishment, so for some projects that we cannot solve - so, political failure - and from the back, we leave all the violations of the sanctuary, the private and the hotel and many others, if you like, your best friends. That is what you are doing with this amendment. What do we have in Article 219 to come back? Unanimous position of the Commission "Natural 2000", the State's official advisory body appointed by your own, the former Minister and representatives of your Ministries. Mr Karamanlis, the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, who voted for the withdrawal of Article 219, did you ask him why he voted for it? Because he's at your ministry. The Ministry of Development and the Ministry of the Environment unanimously decided to withdraw Article 219. Twenty-nine organisations - and I put it, Mr President, on the Minutes - are calling on the Prime Minister on this issue today. Some thirty thousand signatures have already been collected throughout Greece and, unfortunately, representatives of environmental organisations have told us that they are ashamed of Greece, because it is humiliating this article in Greece. That's what they said at the board hearing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is clear that this provision undermines both the integrity of our country and the natural environment and tens of thousands of signatures are already being collected. In fact, while SYRIZA had completed the list of areas "NATURA 2000", he commissioned 17.5m euros, to have a protection framework throughout Greece, so there is a presidential decree everywhere with the uses allowed, they come today undisputed MPs, such as Mr Papadimitriou, to tell us that we need to conduct a study to ensure that there is regulation. But the studies were commissioned. I personally signed the contracts for special environmental studies of 17.5 million, to have all over Greece, i.e. 30% of the continental country and 20% of the marine area, allow activities, what needs to be done to have a job in the world, to have tourism and agriculture and craft industry. Now, because the New Democracy is afraid of what is coming, they pass a window - which is a balcony door, it is not a window - to be able with their friends to make individual permits, while the great, the good studies that Europe wants and on the grounds that they are delaying, while the Minister in Parliament told us that they are being completed in 2021. I know that very well because I had signed the contracts. So, having completed in 2021 all over Greece and all of the NATURA, these studies are now being carried out, and why is an extra process now being created, bypass? Firstly, to ensure that specific environmental studies and the protection framework are never done - the New Democracy Government is aiming at this - and, secondly, to make some political and economic agreements with some who want to break this protection framework and pass some photographic permits, which they will also make fun of. Because that's the point. The New Democracy is not only mocking citizens, society, institutions and environmental organisations, but it also mocks entrepreneurs because it promises them rocked rabbits. Because it is not going to go through all the things they promise, and the environment is affected by entrepreneurship at the end of the day. Only some system buddies, airplanes, and possibly the media, the canalarchs or some bankers will make money. This is the New Democracy, this is what it tries to do and to be clear. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, today the Scientific Service of Parliament, Mr President, and with seven pages of remarks in 219, is fully responsible for the fact that there is no individual authorisation and that, if you like, there is no indication of what soft intervention is and that the measures must be prioritised and then the investments must be made. So, should we not first find out which protection measures are needed for a protected species, an eagle, a turtle, and then see what activities the area can host? First will the activities be licensed and then will the administration be obliged to introduce them in the context of protection? But that's not an environmental study. This is a photo, tell me who you are to put you in, to take care of you and indeed, by putting the term, wrongly legally, of the Strategic Environmental Impact Study. But we're not talking about a hotel or an wind farm. We are talking about a wider intervention that has a programme characteristics. The Strategic Environmental Impact Study is carried out, for example, in the Peloponnese ROP, for wider interventions, which are programmes, not projects. So, do they not aim to settle just one job, but do they want to settle larger interventions, a mixed accommodation that has and houses, which also has golf possibly, or a set of wind parks with photovoltaics or anything else, or the "ELLENIKI CRYS"? And that's a question what exactly they want to take care of.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u90	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u91	I would like to say, Mr President, because I do not really get a document with all my notes on the Scientific Service of the House, which may be necessary for the Minutes and I would like them to stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u92	Good. Check it out and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u93	That is why I conclude by saying that there is also one issue that I do not have time to raise here. But I will only testify because there has to be one. Apart from what they do in the environment, an incredible mess was created after technical production. Take note of one thing that is important, Mr President. They legislated three months ago that local town planning projects will be carried out throughout Greece. They then assigned them to the Registry. Then the Register went to the Ministry of Digital Policy and from what the President of the TEI told us in Monday's debate, he would prepare them after the Technical Chamber and with yesterday's withdrawal of the article, he won't even prepare them for the Technical Chamber. Finally, the great intervention of town planning throughout Greece who will prepare it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Famelle, you've reached ten minutes. It's at the expense of your colleagues. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u95	We are seated on this: to immediately return the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, because there is a specific envelope from the Recovery Fund, because the money will be lost and town plans will not be with you that are in trouble. Literally, there are serious problems in Greece. I think that is why I should like to remind you, Mr President, that we have tabled, as SYRIZA Members, because we are respecting technical production - and I conclude - an amendment to cancel the Kerameos amendment, which is registered in the chambers of graduates in colleges, because technical production must be supported by both scientists and construction safety and not by carves only in colleges. That means progressive policy, and that is why we are voting against the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u96	Thank you too, but time has to be observed. When a colleague speaks ten minutes, he is at the expense of your other colleagues. What will your next colleagues say? You can't talk ten minutes! Mr Kelles from New Democracy has the floor now and then Mr Nikolaos Papastasis from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying, because it has just become a very strong earthquake in Larissa and in the region of Elassona, that my thought is there, to the abbreviators, who have suffered great damage. I hope and hope we don't have any victims. Only material damage has been reported for the time being. Minister, Mr. Karamanlis, since you're here, we want you with us. We want you to immediately send crews to record the damages and anything else it takes. I know you'll do it in advance. I shall continue, in reply to Mr Heta, who mentioned something about the Committee on Road Safety. I must remind him, therefore - I am sure he remembers it, because he is a regular member of the Committee on Road Safety - that we had called last September for the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Thodoris Livano, to explain and describe us - Mr Heita, I refer to you - the CSH which he signed and which introduces a single set of provisions in line with the Road Traffic Code and is in line with the Vienna Convention on Road Safety and the Protection of Archaeological Spaces. At the same time, it strengthens the security of citizens, stating prohibitions and restrictive conditions, where advertising signs on pavement, road decks, provincial roads, etc. were expressly banned. Mr. Karamanlis is here, but I will tell you that Article 220 in today's bill is authorized to the Minister and refers to advertising signs within airports zones. So another one, another one. I'm entering the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, our Government is taking us a big step towards achieving its strategic planning objective of achieving strong and sustainable development. Despite the adversities of the pandemic and the recession that followed and hit the global economy, Greece resists and faces this cosmo-historic challenge with remarkable efficiency. In addition to the battle of intensive care units and hospitals, according to the European Commission, we are the country with the second best performance in the management of the pandemic after Sweden, while the institutions praise the resistance of the Greek economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the more we build immunity to the population by carrying out vaccinations, the more our economy will gain ground to return to growth. Our government since the day it took the steering wheel of the country has not let a lose day. The Ministry of Development's draft law, which we are discussing and will be voting on tomorrow, here in plenary, rationalises the legal framework for public procurement and eliminates complex arrangements, which have to date been blocked for the implementation of public works, public-private cooperation and infrastructure development. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, since No 4412/2016, which you have brought on your day, has amended a total of three hundred eighty-five times. That is why we have taken care, before this bill comes to Parliament, to be processed by two different legislative committees, which were sent by teachers of HEIs, judges, lawyers, engineers and officials from the public administration. With the new law, on the one hand, we are expanding the use of the Internet and increasing transparency in the award and implementation of public contracts, on the other, and, on the other, simplify administrative procedures and increase the speed of public works and studies. First of all, all procurement procedures of more than EUR 30,000 in the National System of Electronic Public Procurement, the ESIB, are compulsory and the original guarantees of participation are required to be presented before opening up, so that unacceptable tenders are rejected. Any tenders are artificially low, with the result that the risk of subsequent revaluations or non-implementation of contracts will be examined in detail, if they deviate more than 10% from the average of the total tenders. As far as procurement is concerned, the ‘e-catalogues’ system is developed in order for public bodies to order via electronic catalogues, which include suppliers covering the price-quality ratio of products and services. At the same time, the three phases of delegation are being shortened to one and the time for judicial dispute resolution in sixty days, while provision is made for the keeping of excluded operators by competitive procedures. Direct awards are set at EUR 30,000 for studies and supplies and EUR 60,000 for projects. In particular, with regard to the construction of the works, the system of a competitive procedure is established while carrying out the environmental study in order to save time until the final stage of the tender. With these regulations, delays will be avoided, as was the case with the Larisa-Farsalon road, where it took more than ten years to proceed to its final stage of reconstruction. In the case of large projects, in the case of projects costing more than EUR 1 million, additional remuneration is set at 5% if the project is delivered earlier, and in the event of a delay of more than 24 months the self-evident solution to the contract is followed by a fair solution. The possibility of private supervision of projects and studies by certified bodies, however under public supervision, is also established, which also applies to other Member States of the European Union and favours compliance with the timeline for implementation. As appropriate, this Legislation contributes to the planning of the equipment of the country's Armed Forces and to its update in the light of the international political conditions involved. First of all, there is provision for the reassessment of the instruments of the JRC's decision on the structure of forces every three years, instead of the current five, or within a shorter period if necessary. In accordance with the forces structure, the long-term defence armaments planning shall be established for 12 years instead of for fifteen years, which may be updated every three years and in which the needs of general personnel in new instruments are reflected. Here we have to say that the decision of the CSCE to award the contract, after the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committee and the recommendation of the Minister of National Defence, is made for more than EUR 30 million, instead of EUR 50 million that is currently in force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will not be late. Further, this draft law contains many other provisions that support the government's development strategy and stimulate the economy by strengthening social solidarity. The Statute of the Hellenic Development Bank is amended in order to implement State aid actions in the form of company subsidies, while last week the Ministry has been setting up an e-shop in each of the companies co-financed by the ESRB. Provision is also made for incompatibilities and incompatibility with the aids in question. Thus, in conjunction with the exemption of beneficiaries from the obligation to produce tax and insurance information, especially for the action concerned, the rapid completion of the relevant payments as a whole is ensured, without retention. Many new electronic stores can be operated as soon as possible. This is a great project, which will give small businesses a breath and it is something that I personally recommended last summer to the relevant Minister. In addition, the new Law of the Technical Chamber of Greece, as a technical adviser to the State, provides the Technical Chamber with legal assistance in order to provide all interested public body with its experience regarding development projects and studies. The TEI is also going to operate a platform for logging accessibility data for SMEs in public buildings, where the necessary adjustments are made up to 31-12-2021, while the Road Terminal Management Agency of the Ministry of Transport undertakes to issue a single pass card from all roads on tolls. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the main provisions that this is a well-established piece of legislation which will enhance the effectiveness of cooperation between the public and private sectors, by discharging the first from unnecessary bureaucratic procedures, administrative and financial burdens and making the second accounting officer and more effective in providing services.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Kelles, you've been through nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President. I was introduced in response to Mr. Heta and the earthquake report. But I'm done. In combination, arrangements are introduced to help strengthen national security, to support branches affected by pandemic and to strengthen social solidarity. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport now has the floor, Mr Constantine Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, thank you very much. I would just like to inform the House that we are following the events of the very great earthquake that took place in the region of Larissa and the Farsala. Mr Kelles, I will tell you that the Prime Minister is already taking a government step, at the moment that we are talking about, in the presence of the Chief of HNDGS Mr Florus, in the region, Mr Levanios, the Deputy Prime Minister will go along with the Prime Minister, and Mr Karayannis, who is Secretary-General for Infrastructure. The EMCDDA is already there. We all want to hope that, despite the damage we will have, we will not have any victims. What I would also like to stress, Mr President, is that we have already given a mandate so that the escalators of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Directorate-General for Natural Disaster, exceptional public officials who always go to the front line, where there are natural disasters, the escalations that are in Karditsa have already been ordered and are going directly to the area, both in the city of Larissa and in the Farsala region, so that the damages in the buildings can be immediately recorded. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Minister, for your quick reflexes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Papapastasis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the earthquake that has already occurred in the Larissa region, we consider it important that there are no victims. This does not, however, detract from the enormous responsibilities of not only the current government but also the previous ones, in terms of earthquake protection, the controls which should have been carried out and which have not been carried out in buildings, such as public in which people are gathered, such as schools, hospitals, with major problems referred to by mass operators, the collective bodies of workers in these areas, who are, often, protesting about this situation in which these buildings are found. And the fact that there are no victims at the moment does not subtract from this government's responsibility for this situation too. A constant request from the Communist Party was and remains the concern of these controls and, in general, of the coordination of earthquake protection, given that daily is the phenomenon of earthquakes in Greece. Now, with regard to the draft law under discussion, our party's position has already been tabled in principle, as well as to the articles by the special buyer, Diamanto Manolakou. I will place myself selectively in the thirty-six articles in Part Two, from Article 143 to 179, which deal with the planning of public procurement in the field of defence or, as we call it, with military supplies. According to the Minister of National Defence at the previous meetings of the Committee, the existing procurement system creates malfunctions, stiffness and long delays. So with these elements he likes his need to change. The reality is, however, different. And, in order to be understood, the following question should be answered, beyond the flexibility of the system in use: How much Greek or how much national, as they are called, are the needs to be met by the planned armaments supplies? The answer shall be found in each paragraph of each document relating to the specification of each item of the supplies. It is the backbone of the texts of the planning of the new structure of the Armed Forces. And that is the phrase: the harmonisation of the national with the allied defence planning of NATO and the European Union. This is an accurate transfer from the relevant official texts of the Ministry of National Defence. It is just as I read it: Supplies aim to harmonise, among other things, the national with the allied defence planning of NATO - the European Union. Also on the website of the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Greek-NATO Description Page describes the binding for the countries - members sharing of the operating burdens of the Lycocho alliance. Firstly, it provides for at least 2% of GDP to be allocated to defence expenditure by 2024. In view of the fact that Greece has been doing this 2%, with this miserable economic situation, through the crisis of the last decade, it has been doing so for years. And, of course, on the basis of this consistency with the naval commands, Trump and Stoltenberg have been credited. Secondly, there is a commitment on the same page of 20% of defence expenditure - that is, this money of 2%, amounting to more than EUR 4 billion - to the implementation of armaments programmes and to the strengthening of research and development. Watch out here. NATO already predicts that 20% will meet the needs of the Greek Armed Forces. That is, before the Greek Armed Forces express it, NATO has expressed it. This, in order to determine how Greek these costs are. What's he going to do? Firstly, to have NATO constantly new weapons systems, because that is what the Armed Forces and Greece are and, secondly, they are directed at specific industries, so that they have customers. Thirdly, operational contributions to naval and non-dispatching and activities. In this context, as we all understand, there is also participation, the mission from Greece to Saudi Arabia of the Patriot missile systems. It may not be narrow natonic, but the relationship between Greece and NATO provides for it. The same goes for the European Union. What demands does it make in connection with military supplies or their formation? In September 2019, the review of the European Court of Auditors was published under number 9/2019. Title: European defence. In this text the European Commission for the European Union's defence budget proposes from EUR 2.8 billion, which was in 2014-2020, to increase for the period 2021-2027, take note of from EUR 2.8 billion - to EUR 22.5 billion. In view of the fact that the European Union is still in NATO military service. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u105	Yes, Mr. Papastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u106	The often invoked by the Government of Turkish aggression - undeniable and real, of course - as a lever of pressure from the Greek people is aimed at creating a climate of unsuccessful acceptance of the huge economic haemorrhage, primarily to strengthen NATO's south-eastern wing. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the real motives for the armaments races and not to address the existence of Turkish aggression. In these options, the government is not alone. All the governments of the Greek people have participated to date: the Social Democratic PASOK - KINAL, the so-called left SYRIZA and, of course, the right New Democracy. The Communist Party is addressed to the people and expresses its position clearly. Whatever supplies the government makes by participating in NATO and the European Union, it remains and will remain incapable of ensuring the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. A fundamental element in its policy, as in the policy of the previous governments, is the promotion of the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie which have nothing to do with the interests of the people. They're moving in a totally opposite direction. As for the people, its dominant choice remains the peaceful coexistence with their respective neighbours and their creation of conditions of growth and prosperity. The bourgeoisie seeks to increase its participation in the distribution of bloody profits from them around the world, imperialist wars and interventions. How ruthless this class is today depicted in the port of Alexandroupolis. 'Defender Europe '20-21' exercise. It is characteristic that at a relevant coordinating meeting of the Port Authority of Alexandroupolis chaired an American diplomat. Today a huge killing machine has been unloaded in the port: thousands of soldiers, dozens of war helicopters, hundreds of vehicles of every type. The aim is to test Russia's curtailment by converting Baltic, Central European and Balkan countries into a vast theater of war involving twenty-six countries. How much is this planning identified with the interests of our people? The answer is: not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u107	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u108	I'll be done. For confirmation once again of the word "a photograph, a thousand words", I refer you to the first page of the Agency's website Alexandroupolis Port. There are four photos. The three American soldiers are swept down with the port players. In the fourth, their political representative in our country, Pyatt, in a form of a sovereign next to the Greek Minister of National Defence. Otherwise, rejoice in modernising the military procurement framework. The 'DASSAULT', 'LOKHEED MARTIN', 'NAVAL GROUP', 'HDV', welcomes you and with them the message that the cost of each armaments system has been integrated and the cost of money laundering, redemption and favourable treatment of their offers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Papastasis, you've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. Whatever you vote for, these laws will work within the barbaric capitalist system, which is linked to the remula, and the cases that have so far been revealed and framed simply confirm the rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. I will now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Development and Investment to develop the amendment under a general number 775 and a special 44. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I will talk about Amendment No 775 and number 44, which refers to the institutional framework for the operation of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, in which we change four basic things. The first is that the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation will be evaluated regularly, as assessed by the research centres of the country. I think that's something we all agree on. It is important to evaluate all the institutions in the country, especially those in research and innovation. The Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation is the main institution for supporting research. We want to see how it can be improved even further, so the evaluation seems to me to be something that it needs. The second question is about the register of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. Until first, the Scientific Council was able to select evaluators, who are also outside the register of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. We limit this possibility. The evaluators should therefore be selected from the register of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. In fact, we also provide for the integration of the registers of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation with the register of the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation, so that we have as a state a single register of assessors. The only exception we give is for tax residents abroad, to say it very simply, for foreigners. Research programs are used to. In fact, we have many Greek scientists and researchers who participate in evaluations of foreign programs. We want to have this possibility in Greece as well. Foreigners cannot necessarily register with the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation. So we only allow tax residents to choose abroad. The third change we are going through is the abolition of the two seats of Deputy Directors. Let me say that at the moment we have a deputy director at the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, whose term of office will end at the beginning of next year and after the end of its term of office there will be no new posts of deputy directors. The fourth and last amendment to the institutional framework of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation has to do with the selection process of the director. And I want to be clear about this thing. Here we streamline the procedure so that it is identical to the procedure for selecting directors in all research centres in the country. The Scientific Council of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation will therefore propose two representatives for the seven-member committee. He will also propose a list of fifteen scientists to the National Technology and Innovation Research Council, which selects five regular members and five alternate members and the Minister sign them in this order. I think it is something that, once we all agree that we want the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation to operate in terms of transparency and the same institutional framework that operates all the research centres in the country, it is rationalisation of procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Vasiliadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are discussing today modernises and upgrades the existing framework for public procurement, including those in the fields of defence and security. The existing regulatory framework of Law 4412/2016 has been shown to be slow, inadequate and counterproductive, while its failure is apparent and over three hundred eighty amendments since its adoption. Long-term enforcement times, long-term judicial procedures, low quality supplies of goods, services and works are some of the effects of the law in force since August 2016. The radical reform of this framework in a development direction was a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy, and today this commitment becomes a reality. The draft law under discussion has, in my view, three objectives: to reduce bureaucracy, simplify procedures and increase transparency in public procurement, particularly with regard to public works. Although we were in the third decade of the 21st century, regional units such as Pella, from which I come, are considerably less than infrastructure. Taking into account the extremely unfavourable conditions created by the effects of the pandemic, the need for flexibility and simplification of the public procurement framework is greater than ever before to achieve a more rapid implementation of current needs. On this point, Mr President, I should like to refer to a number of points. The main philosophy of the draft law is the utilization of all available electronic tools to achieve the objectives mentioned above. The provision of the electronic platform of the National Electronic Procurement System is upgraded and the mandatory use of electronic tools by contracting authorities and economic operators is extended. Furthermore, the application of electronic invoicing is facilitated, which we expect to expand in general, Minister. Further reduction in unnecessary bureaucracy is achieved by the introduction of dematerialised contracts for the award of estimated value up to two and a half thousand euros. With regard to the reduction of the time spent on deliverables, the possibility of supervising the projects by a certified private operator is an innovation in the bill. Because, let us not laugh, a remote mountain municipality or an island municipality cannot be effectively supervised with the limited capacity of their technical services. In addition, the project monitoring system is transformed from control to declaratory and at the same time the framework for the contractor is tightened. The "study-building" system, which allows for the start of the project and thus the timely completion of the project at the same time as the studies, is also supported. It's nothing new. There is the experience of the respective practice in the private and public partnership projects, the PPPs. The obsolete concept of curiosity is thus upgraded, which often led to long delays. But delays were also brought by endless judicial involvements. In the draft law under discussion, it is not only the reduction of the years of dispute settlement but also the introduction of arbitration and extrajudicial settlement so that projects do not act. I would like to stress that all the interventions I have mentioned are strengthening and the transparency that the public procurement system so badly needs. Before I close my speech, Mr President, I would also like to refer to a number of other issues dealt with in this bill. As far as procurement in the defence and security sectors is concerned, I distinguish the provision for contracts for the subsequent support of military equipment, as well as the philosophy of the legislation on the long-term implementation of these conventions - programming, conclusion, execution - and the need for social and political consensus. The Minister mentioned the meetings of the Committees, but also the Members of the Co-Population and Representation, and it is something I agree with. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The role of the Technical Chamber of Greece is upgraded, making it more operational. The accessibility of disabled people to buildings housed in public services is also enhanced, a subject on which we have placed extensively in a previous debate on the National Accessibility Authority. It also establishes the digitisation of building permits with an upgraded role for the TEI. For the NATURA regions, despite the strong criticism we have heard from the Antipolitics, the provisions of the bill allow for a necessary flexibility while ensuring environmental protection. No one wants the opposite. But, as you said, Mr Minister, the NATURA regions account for 30% of the land. Therefore, any soft intervention of a development nature cannot be hampered indefinitely. I can assure you that there is a problem in Pella. Finally, I very much appreciate, Minister, your intervention in relation to the publications of notices in the provincial press. It is something that we have set a number of colleagues. I think your reflexes proved very fast. You gave a temporary solution, given the circumstances we are experiencing. However, we must also see a permanent regulation of the issue, which has no financial costs and will not jeopardise the survival of these businesses. To conclude, Mr President, the draft law under discussion limits the often ineffective bureaucracy that governs public works and introduces a framework that allows for the implementation of more quality projects with a shorter implementation time and transparent procedures. I call on the House to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou, and the consistency in time. The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Vitsas from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I imagine that everyone's mind right now is in the area of Thessaly, which was struck by a very powerful earthquake, especially in the region of Elassona. We hope that the damage will be the smallest possible, both in terms of people, to be - if possible - all good. We hope that the state will work quickly, that everything will be recorded quickly and that the solutions will be given. Minister, I will speak not on your subject, but on Part II, on the defensive supplies. Charming, I'd say it's good to hear them, because no one knows how life can bring them sometime. I could put a title in this second part, 'A legislation which much promised and nothing really solves'. It is clear that some provisions of the law relating to defence procurement are an improvement in relation to the n. Date of birth: 3978/2011, also known as ‘Venizelos law’. However, I would like to remind you that Greece was the first country to ratify a European directive quickly, not taking into account the possibilities that this exemption directive gave it, which Poland did, which Hungary did, which Spain did, and which Portugal has done, so that we are now in this situation. In this respect, however, the Government has followed its awkward and lazy efforts to revise the legal framework in the governance of SYRIZA. So the positive points are nothing but the resumption of this review. I would like to remind you: in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we have all agreed that Law 3978 is a non-procurement law. I'll come to that and then. But we agreed and what would be the direction of the new law. And the orientation of the new law has two key pillars. The first pillar is that contracts should be made on the basis of the law, because so far - since 2011 - they must not go beyond the two funny conventions made under the law, so the procedures should be faster, more effective, etc. The second pillar was to strengthen the National Defence Industry on the basis of the national defence industrial strategy which exists, has been voted on, has not been changed by the Government of New Democracy and is therefore in force. What have all the governments been doing these years? Since the law could not be used, because it was useless, then we chose either the transnational agreements or the ratification of the convention by law. I shall mention two last examples. And not to say I'm wrong with New Democracy, I'm gonna say one of SYRIZA's. First of all, the International Cabinet Training Centre in Kalamata. What are we doing? We say that this international centre is part of the agreement between Greece and Israel's government and is, in fact, an agreement between Greece and ELBIT, that is, a private company. The second example is the Rafale. Some wondered then: "Why did they bring law for the Rafale?" Because if the Department of Defense hadn't brought law, it would have been illegal. Only in this way could the Rafale market be ratified. You want a third example? The upgrading of F-16 - not to say that I am saying only about the New Democracy - which was made on SYRIZA, was basically based on a previous agreement and a previous law. I am saying these to explain that the law that existed, the Venizelos Act, was a law that could not be implemented. What's the problem? And this law will not be implemented. And with this law, which you will vote on, from now on any provision to the defence forces will be made either by means of a transnational agreement or by law. In a way, Mr. Papapastasis said so. This whole process, for example, also has the bureaucratic part. In other words, a company comes in and says, "Look, take one or two clues, don't ask me for two thousand data from two thousand companies, I'll bring these when it takes two seconds later." And this will prove too quickly, when we come here to discuss the law - when - to buy wells or upgrade the MEOs. They're legally coming. Don't have any doubts. That's not gonna happen. So the real question is whether this piece of legislation solves the uncertainty of Law 3978, the misuse of the legal framework, which will now be scattered into four laws. So far we have had three laws on defence supplies, and now we will have four - they are mutual laws, but you understand how contradictory - and we wanted to make a bill that catches all the issues of procurement. More specifically now about the law two - three things: the Law on long-term planning, as laid down in Article 73 of Law 3883/2010 - another law - and as referred to in Article 144 of today's bill. Again, he's practically inapplicable. This provision is practically inapplicable. Why? Because there can be no accurate knowledge of the system and technology solutions that will meet specific operational requirements of the Armed Forces over a 12-year horizon, so that they can be included in the long-term programming of defence equipment. The equipment, especially the defensive ones, is changing and changing very easily both their economic data and their technological data. However, even if we had identified these solutions, if the time of implementation of the supply is not determined and no pre-contractual procedures have been carried out, the cost of procurement cannot be calculated or the total cost. Anyway - so as not to analyse - the logic is that within the twelve years we will identify about what we want to take - and not exactly - and about the price, namely the price and what we get in the three-year programming. Secondly, there are mistakes. In the medium term, and especially in the question of the structure of forces, infrastructures are not mentioned. If you read it, you will see that the infrastructure is not mentioned. Now, because they forgot it either at the IAE or at the Ministry, a god knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u117	Finish it, Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u118	So you do not adopt the fundamental logic of SYRIZA's intervention, which has reached a high degree of maturity, and here, in what I said, is the great fault of the bill, which will ultimately cancel any good intention. Let me have one last word. There is the issue of the Defence Industry. Look what I propose to you: in Article 149 there is a substantial addition that will help the Greek Defence Industry. What is this addition? I read it and conclude it: ‘In any event, if it is not possible to develop and maintain the areas of strategic importance for the protection of the country's essential security interests, which are included in the national defence industrial strategy approved by the CSCE with other means, the country, when it concludes defence procurement contracts, may claim industrial participation by the candidates in accordance with the provisions of Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union’. If this comes in, we are freed, especially in transnational contracts, but also in contracts under the law, to play an essential role for the National Defence Industry and to gain both Greece and the State industry and private industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u119	Next speaker, Mrs Sophia Sakova. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to speak only of Article 218 on the legalisation of Mall and I will not speak of the entire bill, of course, because our rapporteur has already been placed, but our parliamentary representative will also be placed in the next period. It seems paradoxical to speak only of an article in a bill establishing, among other things, the impunity of bankers and the self-assessment of contractors. The next step, ladies and gentlemen, will be to issue for themselves the payment orders. The article fully captures the Greek reality. It reveals who is finally ruling this place. Let us see how investments are made in modern Greece. In view of the 2004 Olympic Games, the then Mayor of Amarousiou, the long and well-known Panagiotis Janikos, "had made the rabbit", as we say on the track, launched a plan to build the Press Village for foreign journalists. The procedure is almost over and the contract with the Dutch company is imminent. The interest of the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ is then shown. From there everything is changed, contests are overthrown, construction conditions, land uses, coefficients, everything. For LAMDA to take over the project, she is given a forty-three acres of the Organization for the Working Housing, to build there - she says - a giant shopping center for the needs of the Olympic Games. This is 'Mall'. The then government of Simitis facilitates the investor in every way by a series of "photographic" provisions, until they have more than tripled the build-up factor. The first law circumvents town planning and increases building construction to twenty - three thousand square meters. However, these were not, of course, enough for the investor and they brought them up to the eighty-five thousand square meters. The then Chief of the New Democracy Mr. Kostas Karamanlis here in Parliament on 4 February 2003 denounces the change in the terms of the tender after the opening of tenders and adds, on the other hand, to you: "In the draft water bill with an amendment from the Minister..." - meant Vasso Papandreou - "...of the last hour, there was a gift for the value of 145 billion drachmas to the contractor for the work for the Press Village in Maroussi, which was not yet operational." It is the time when he had declared the war against corruption and pimps - if you remember - but even then he dared not name them. Previously, in the debate on that amendment in 2002, Honourable Mr Mitsotakis himself had intervened, who said to the government: "You create good value for billions and scandal, which at other times a government with sensitivity would have resigned." A group of active citizens from Maroussi, with Dorylaos Klapakis, therefore took on their own defence of legitimacy. And I'm telling you I'm very proud of being with them in this race. The S.T.E. In 2002 a decision was taken to suspend work and in 2003 its final unanimous decision, which annulled the law and imposed a stop to the work. These decisions have never been implemented by anyone. Work continued undisturbed and undisturbed. In their old shoes and laws and principles and judicial decisions! Meanwhile, the government assumes the great Evangelos Venizelos with a new law - a patent to relegate the arbitrary. The play will never stop. The ‘graphic’ citizens of Amarousios were fighting alone for legality against the indissociable investor and state alliance. They submitted an application for cancellation in February 2004. The S.H.E.'s decision. finally adopted after ten whole years, in 2014, ladies and gentlemen. Again, it annulled government patents as illegal and unconstitutional for the extradition of the scandalous building licence bypass of any institutionalised procedure. But let's go back. The New Democracy wins the elections in 2004, but in the meantime it has forgotten everything it had reported before and what it said and simply follows the besieged one. It is already legislation in 2005 on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Pavlopoulou in order to ex post legalise the scandalous concession of the OAS area to ‘LAMDA’. Mall, declared arbitrary, illegal and unlicensed, was officially inaugurated on 25-1-2005 by the then State Secretary for Development of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Soufas. It remains to date the greatest arbitrary of Europe. I wonder why they are saying only in Europe. There is nowhere in the world in the building with so many tens of thousands of square arbitrary and illegal structures. At least I, ladies and gentlemen, have found no one, no matter how much I have looked. In any case, Mall has been working all these years as if nothing had happened. He raped the urban urban fabric of the region, deprived free spaces, destroyed the commercial world and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship of the wider region, etc. In the face of all this, it is a detail that the OEK that was granted free of charge had been expropriated with the Greek people's money to become workers' dwellings. This 20-year-old and intergovernmental scandal is coming today, ladies and gentlemen, to legalise it. Decisive and bold, as always, when you are going to serve specific interests, something that you concede in the report on the impact of the regulation, which states that if this provision is not applied, it will be practically impossible to issue building permits on the basis of the provisions in force. What an amazing confession! If legality doesn't suit us, so much worse for her. In the same way, you are treating the legality in the case that we have been living in these days, in the Kouffontina case, where, in order to cover the reality, you are making it vindicating that, in a rule of law, the law applies to everyone, democracy is not blackmailed and that justice and the institutions will stand up to the situation. [[At this point, the ending bell of Mrs H' Vice-President of Parliament's speaking time is ringing.]] Gentlemen, obviously you're mocking us, which proves a great deal like this. In your own state, the law does not apply to everyone. Democracy is subjected to simple commands without even requiring extortion. When justice stands up to the circumstances, you are simply overthrowing its judgment with new legislation. The rest of the institutions and want to do their job, because the pressures of political leaders are not left to them. Indeed, all these twenty years, which institution or government imposed any of the legal sanctions for the arbitrary construction of 'Mall'? And not to be forgotten, I mention your predecessors: Constantine Simitis, Constantine Karamanlis, George Papandreou, Luke Papademos, Antonio Samaras, Panagiotis Pikrammenos, Vasiliki Thanos, Alexis Tsipras. Colleagues, it is like I already hear the voice of Mr Adonni Georgiades, the Minister of State, in my ears telling me in his familiar style: 'And what, Mrs Sacora, would you like to demolish 'Mall'?' Indeed, one of the legal sanctions for arbitrary is demolition. That's what the law says. What do we do? But, Minister, there was never even a fine, a fine, Prime Minister, for the price of arms just before you brought this complete final and retroactive legalization. A symbolic fine was not imposed at all, say 5 euros - and do not scare! - the total and not per square and you do after this arrangement of the investor. You didn't even dare to do that today. There is no government force there, which gives the measure of who is the real boss. It's not you, Prime Minister! And I'm not afraid to say names. For reasons of conscience, I have been confronted for years with all these methods. So, like any similar investor, they are superior to public services, authorities and institutions, they are even superior to laws, they are superior to both ministers and Prime Ministers, even to Parliament in which they simply dictate provisions, as is today. Eventually it is not so important if all these government services are provided to so-called investors free of charge or in exchange. And don't tell me that the company's shareholder composition has changed. You know that's not the point. And you know it, because you, like previous ones, behaved in the same way and willingly, for example, in the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u121	Mrs. Sacorafa, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u122	Follow the golden rule “For governance in modern Greece” faithfully. You are the reality of old good advertising "His Master's Voice" and no one can confuse the roles. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the time you have given me, and I would ask you to allow me to apologize for the English I have used previously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u123	Good, Mrs. Sacorafa. Ladies and gentlemen, the first circle of speakers has been completed here. Then we will continue with the second five speakers, namely Mr. Hatzigiannakis, Mrs. Alexopoulou, Mr. Goka and Mr. Chartoma. Here, Mr. Coché, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the heart and mind of all of us today is near my fellow Thessalos who have been tested by the entrepreneur. This is a strong seismic vibration in both intensity and duration. It is true, however, that the government mechanism reacted immediately. Already the Minister announced that a government step is heading towards Thessaly. I am sure that the restoration of the damages, but also the compensation, will move in the same fast and effective way, as was the case with the 'January' in Karditsa. Respecting, ladies and gentlemen, and defending our election commitments, we legislate crucial changes in public procurement, so that we create a flexible, efficient, less bureaucratic, transparent and friendly state, with the aim of always triggering the necessary changes in our economy, but also in our society. You are asking yourself, ladies and gentlemen, whether the existing framework for public procurement which we have in our country is in line with the modern international and highly competitive environment. Is there flexibility and speed in the implementation of both private investment and public works and procurement through the existing institutional framework? Is the production of quality public works in the existing way of tendering and supervision? Is the public interest in the endless delays in the preparation, but also in the implementation of both private and public works, due to the intense bureaucratic and inactive framework that exists? Is it worth our Greece, Greeks and Greeks, a more flexible, more attractive, more efficient regulatory framework for public procurement and procurement? Can the existing N.4412 support these challenges? Can he satisfy today's requirements? And only the fact that three hundred eighty-five times has been amended since his vote is a manifestation of his weakness and inadequacy. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we all understand that in this particular and critical period we are experiencing it is an undeniable need for our arsenal to be shielded with the necessary institutional framework to speed up developments and procedures for the rapid exit of the crisis suffered by our economy through the coronary pandemic. Our country has ensured the necessary financial resources of EUR 72 billion both from the Recovery Fund and from the new national reference framework, the ESRB. What is now needed is to develop the necessary speed, but also the transparent implementation of projects and actions that will transfer these resources to the real economy as soon as possible, but also with the greatest possible imprint on the economy and society. At the same time, it is a one-way road for Greece to become an attractive destination for attracting private investment that will feed the economy, trigger growth and, above all, create new, stable and well-paid jobs, in response to the enormous problem of unemployment, which is particularly agitating young generations. And here our Government, with this bill, gives an answer with the forecast of reducing the times for the judicial resolution of disputes. But for the first time, we have introduced the institution of arbitration and friendly settlement in order to achieve the quickest out-of-court resolution of disputes, which will surely lead to the quickest delivery of works for users and society. And that's because it's true that when a project, an investment, enters the corridors of judicial involvement, then the times are unpredictable when it's over. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have endless bureaucratic procedures and it takes almost a whole year from the day on which the project is auctioned until the day on which the contract is signed, imagine how much time it is for this project to be carried out. Aren't all these delays detrimental to the public economy and to the fiscal evolution of our country? Isn't the value of projects reduced, when a project is late to begin, late to be auctioned, late to sign the contract, is it late to be executed when it has additional contracts when it has prolonged? The fact is that projects due to the excessively large discounts often have malicious crafts, because when a contractor gives a huge discount and has an elastic oversight or problem with supervision, the first thing he will do is to look at working at the expense of the quality of the project, thus reducing the value of the project, but also at the same time at the same time, projects remain incomplete or perpetually executed over a long period of time. Should the Greeks and Greeks not enjoy quality projects carried out within the timescales and delivered in time for use by society? The main objective, therefore, of our bill is always in line with European legislation, to create a reform framework, where procedures for the implementation of public procurement can be shortened, but also for the construction of quality and substantial projects. Having served local government for twenty years and having even been president of the Regional Association of Municipalities of Thessaly, I can pass on my unpleasant experience from the implementation of Law 4412: endless bureaucratic procedures, difficult framework, protests from officials who could not lift all this bureaucratic burden, protests from contractors who were often in front of procedures endless and incomplete, but also unjustified many of the blockades for formal reasons. And you know, the small municipalities have an inherent weakness of the lack of human resources, of responsibilities that they cannot carry out, but also of supervising the works carried out in an area. That is why we are once again innovating as a government, enabling certified private operators to supervise the projects, since this is, of course, provided for in the declaration. And to prevent the digestible criticism of allegedly releasing private operators, I should like to point out that this will be done in PPP standards, but also under the supervision of the Director-General at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, even the issue of increasing the awards from 20 to 30 thousand, from 40 to 60 thousand or for small projects from 1,000 to 2 000 euros, in essence, strengthens the small contractors' services and businesses in each regional unit, to every municipality which is extremely useful for the local community, which is extremely useful for the local economy. And, of course, our Government has shown us that small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized contractors, are perceived as the backbone of our economy and that is why it always supports them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u126	I shall conclude, Mr President. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the reforms we are launching concern every citizen who is dealing with the Greek state, with the Greek State and doing so more effectively, but also at the same time more essential in its operation. Public procurement for us is a key aspect of public investment, strengthen the market, encourage private investment, contribute to growth and employment. Our government is moving rapidly to give our country the reform it needs to play a leading role in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Hatzigiannakis Miltiadis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm glad you're here now, because it's actually your dent, your ministry, and let it come as a coward of the Ministry of Development for other reasons. Four and a half years have passed since the resolution of No 4412 incorporating the status of public procurement and incorporating the European directive, which had not so far been the case for public procurement. As a opposition you blamed us for the constant changes of Law 4412, the institutional framework. I will not speak today so much as a Member of Parliament, but as a lawyer dealing with public procurement in principle and as mayor, as self-government who had to implement the institutional frameworks in order to be able to proceed with a multitude of compromises in the municipality that I had the honour of serving. The truth is, you had advertised your bill, we've been waiting for it for a long time. And while we were expecting that what you are evangelizing and what you are saying in his title will come, a bill that will facilitate and speed up the procedures of public procurement and public works, unfortunately anyone who has dealt a little with public procurement, especially at the Council of State, Administrative Court of Appeal and Court of Auditors, will find that there is a very large part of the provisions, which will not only achieve the desired result, but unfortunately will create enormous rigidities, huge delays. In fact, although in the particular committee of law making, I am very afraid that in some of these provisions the people were outside or did not listen to them. Their opinion cannot have been in conflict with EU law where we have given judgments of the European Court of Justice, but also of the supreme courts of the country, the Council of State, which say completely different things or have resolved issues that you are supposed to be bringing to a solution and they are not doing so at all. And I'll be much more specific, and I'll speak in particular. One of the first comments is that while the European average for the publication of studies is thirty days, you come and put it in your own sixty days. Evidently public suppliers and Greek contractors are slow. It cannot be explained otherwise because it takes two months to see a study and make comments on it. What acceleration will you achieve with the two months of the supposed consultation that this study will have? What exactly are you going to do? If observations are made on this study and if responses to the comments are required, it will be undetermined. In other words, it can only be six months for the study and for the comments of the studies. For a contract in Skyros that will be for a small bridge, it'll have to be two months. If comments are made on the study, and the Technical Service or the Adviser you are introducing, anyway, in too many of your legislations and not only in this regard, it will have to be four, five, six months! And that's what you call 'accelerating'! Do you not know that, according to the Court of Auditors' case-law, this is not an additional contract - because you say in your explanatory statement, that you do so that the additional contracts for the study do not take place for malicious purposes, for malicious studies - for such cases of misconception or wrong studies and that the tenderer accepts them as they are, if he has not offended them? You don't know that? So you do not know that there is no supplementary contract there? What, then, is the risk of modifying the study you are avoiding by this provision? I do not think there will be a man who deals with public works and public contracts who will support this provision. Let's go to another question of speeding up - I'm supposed to - the procedures that I've really wondered about. I am talking about Articles 23 and 24, which are monuments of delays and centralisation. It is the opinion of two technical councils and, above all, the Central Council of the Ministry of Infrastructure! It's terrible! It'll create incredible delays. And the assent will actually replace the central council of the Ministry. It will replace the project promoters. I would like to add a presidential decree to approve the proclamation or opinion of the Pope or Archbishop, that! I close this issue because I consider it at least challenging, and I am not only talking about entrusting individuals to whom you say that you will pay them through the project. So the work will come out, as is done with Archaeology, for example. So who's to be paid for? He'll be paid by the contractor. In other words, the auditor, who has to certify the work, is paid by the contractor! If this doesn't make a new system of official corruption, tell me exactly what it's made of. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. And you're not standing there, but you're reintroducing the declaratory system. It will declare the contractor, while the matter has been resolved definitively by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State by Resolution 2494/2013. It has solved the matter. Here we are going to be paradoxical: the bad contractor will make it 'plates' with the supervisor - who will pay as it seems - and will show completely different works that will be certified by the supervisor. The innocent contractor will be a felony of evil supervising. I'm talking about the declaratory system. It has therefore been solved by the Council of State and the self-just adoption of the accounts gives the management authority the right to return. And this issue has been dealt with successfully. I would like to make another comment on Rule 135. We do not understand why the withdrawal of GDP and the return of the paradox is only within a ten-day period. In a ten-day period, the administration will not even have sent a file. There will be no interventions at all. Why do you think that the applicant will change his mind in ten days on an appeal? Why, too, should GDP appeals be treated completely differently from all other actions in the Council of State, in the new ESDP? What exactly are we going to win with this? Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a reference to Rule 219. It is actually predicted that from now on the state's environmental policy in protected areas will be carried out by private investors. That is what you are voting on in Article 219, that is what you are establishing. In fact, not only do you put a parallel procedure from the official procedure provided for in Union law that we have incorporated, not only do you go to cancel the studies that have been commissioned and are being carried out at the moment - it is not in the air - for the protected areas, but you also have an obligation of the scholar - and therefore of the Presidential Decree - to incorporate the private investor's study! That's never heard of! In other words, we are going to protect Mavropetritis in Skyros - or Evia or in Crete or in the seal in Alonissos or in the carnet - and make the investment and the special environmental plan the private investor, who will obviously not care about the specific environmental study on how to protect this endangered species. He will build his hotel or wind park and will be required by the management body to integrate his own study. I invite you to get this back. You've been invited by all environmental organizations. It's environmentally friendly, much worse than the bill Mr. Hatzidakis had brought. It's the charismatic shot. Indeed, you will all be co-responsible for the destruction that will come, but also for the fine of hundreds of millions of euros, as Mr Famelos quite rightly said - which we will be called upon to pay very quickly after the recent condemnation of the non-protected areas. I'm telling you both about Evia and Skyros. If you have such studies to come and bypass legislation, as defined by the Council of State and European law, you will find us there and bring MATs and whoever you want to do your investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, could I, with your approval, say about one amendment and respond to a few comments which I have tried to group together and give some minor answers, in order to facilitate the dialogue that is taking place? I won't take more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u131	All right, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to speak for just one minute, in order to support the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 776 and a specialist of 45. Two provisions are essentially contained in this amendment. The proposed provision solves a problem with regard to the final receipt of judges. We are referring in particular to those courtesys which, despite surrendering and operating for many years, have not received a acceptance protocol. This was due either to the person of the contractors, or is made as a result of the merger of the company ‘COMMERCIAL’ with the company ‘SIDE CRITERIA’. The result is that they do not have a receipt protocol and thus make it impossible to join co-financing programmes for their upgrades. The second concerns the exclusion of the staff of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport from mobility. This is because both the Ministry and its institutions are currently carrying out very important projects, many of which are cofinanced. For example, I could mention restoration from the disasters of the 'January', but also many other cases. It is therefore understandable that our staff no longer exceeds their number to participate in the mobility provisions mentioned. Two words because almost all my fellow Members have spoken, they have referred to three main issues: firstly, the question of private supervision; secondly, the issue of declaratory and auditing; and the famous 219, for which the Minister for Development has spoken and given answers. However, since the previous colleague of the Communist Party of Greece, who unfortunately left, we have heard a few things that I would like to fix. So far we have been the only country to publish the studies and we have for the first time anticipated this, that is, everyone will know what the public is asking. The honourable Member has said about the supplementary contracts. Supplementary contracts become dozens and are signed too many times because of the study failure and the courts finally come and accept this. As far as the measurements are concerned, the provision of Article 151, which does not mention anything to overturn them at a later stage, is probably disproved by the provision of Article 151. These are the specific answers I would like to give. I also want to say that in the matter of private supervision I also submitted to the committee practical from the presidential decree issued by the previous government. In fact, we come and give the opportunity, and we go ahead with this. It was right that the previous government had downloaded this presidential decree - I will put it in the Minutes again in my speech - in which it created a register and created the possibility of having advisors to run the projects. Don't play with words. That's what we came to do. To say just one thing: an agency, a municipality, to say just to understand it, which has no technical competence, has no engineers, can - no one make it - use it from a specific approved register of engineers to make private supervision. We don't make him do private surveillance. Municipalities and contracting entities with technical competence will decide whether to go on the road to private supervision or whether to remain with classical supervision. And I close, Mr President, by saying this: who is helping not to oversee the projects? In particular, I respond to colleagues from the Left Party. The one who does not make serious supervision because we know that the small contracting entities have not been subject to serious supervision. So who's coming out on a win-win? Is the state, the public interest? Or is the contractor who knows that in essence no one oversees his work? It is therefore good to put all this on the table so that we do not hide behind our fingers and are not caught in ideas which I think should once end in a European Union country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u133	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Alexopoulou is called to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about the amendment tabled by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u135	Did you read it? Did you see her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u136	The one you developed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u137	We called Mrs Alexopoulou in Stepma. The Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u138	A call then. If the Minister can bring us the courtesy of this amendment, who are, in other words, who are the contractors, what services they were supervising, and whether he is also kind enough to bring us from the electronic system that you have in the Ministry, the direct assignments and the bodies that have been made through the electronic system that is abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u139	Good. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to make a small comment on the amendment which has been tabled, and indeed on Article 3, 'Suspension for the execution of demolition and elimination protocols', to stress how important it is for areas such as ours, such as the Arctic region, which serves both residents and visitors in the port of Kryoneri. Sylivina, Akra, Aiyra, the entire municipality of Aiyalea, had its stress on this little harbor. We can't start with bulldozers. Yeah, they're badly illegal, they're badly unregulated. But we are not the government of the Bulldozer to demolition, but to build, Minister, Mr Georgiadis. Thank you very much for this amendment. It is very important for our region. Today, then, we are discussing a bill, perhaps the most important bill, which will lead us to steady steps in the post-COVID era. This is because one is the word which should be in our vocabulary at this time, the word'recovery'. With this plan we are moving safely towards the future of projects, to the auction and to the implementation of them and therefore to the economic recovery that we all want. Today, from the Step of the House, I will not speak as a parliamentarian, but as a political engineer, as a man of the technical world and as a former public works contractor. The country needs investment. Achaea from which I come, she needs works, and she needs them immediately. We are at the end of a more than ten-year crisis, which has clearly left its mark in every sector of the economy and society. In the last year, the pandemic has come to worsen the situation, making business difficult and making it difficult for all the public. But the more the end of the pandemic comes closer, the more we need to step up our efforts and prepare for the next steps in the development of our country. A safe way to achieve this is with a multitude of large nationally important public and private investment, along with the implementation of all strategic objectives in the technical programmes and supplies of TA I and II grades. The awakening of the construction industry and public supply and service contracts, as well as their operation in an efficient, rapid and transparent way, will bring together dozens of other sectors, reducing unemployment, which is very important, offering immediate liquidity to the market and boosting the recovery of the Greek economy. That is why we are proposing as the main objective the immediate start of the tender of projects of special importance to the economy of Greece and, at the same time, attracting as many private investment and projects as possible. The golden opportunity of the Recovery Fund cannot be lost in the maze of bureaucracy. The conversion of the national economy to a development model of extroverts and innovation needs a modern institutional framework aimed at shortening the periods of awarding and implementing works, supplies and services, ensuring their quality and based on cooperation in the public and private sectors. All these three guidelines are included in the provisions of this draft law, which is indeed an integrated approach to modernising the regulatory framework and achieving the above objectives. The role and responsibility of the contractor are therefore strengthened. I mention, in particular, the displacement of part of the project control system by the contracting authority to the contractor of public works, the strengthening of the system of design constructions and the transfer of responsibility for studying to the contractor. Together with the possibility of private works and studies, as well as the setting-up of the Register of Mechanic Operators, the technical services of the public bodies are seriously dismantled and the procedures are accelerated, both in the tendering and award phases and in the monitoring and integration phases. To the same objective of avoiding delays, it is also necessary to provide incentives to contractors for large projects to complete them earlier than the contractual deadline. At the same time, the contractual completion time for study contracts is strictly limited to twenty-four months. In addition, active and successful action on the quality of projects, which is historically one of the major problems in Greece. In particular, it is laid down that discounts above 10% the average of the total bids will be considered unusually low and necessarily justified. At the same time, the justification of the tenderer becomes an integral part of the project and commits him during the performance. So we will effectively fight against the tactics of deliberately low tenders that often caused insurmountable obstacles to the completion of the works or led to a series of supplementary contracts, often in terms of opaqueness. And that's to know that it wasn't just technical services. He was very disturbing to contractors too. For project quality assurance, the time of compulsory guarantee shall be increased to five years. As far as the municipalities and regions are concerned, their fair and well-established requests are being met, concerning the laughter system for competition committees, as well as the annual drawing-up of a list of awards. Furthermore, streamlining the limits for direct awards for studies, commissions and projects, as well as for arrangements such as de minimis public contracts, resolve hands on local government, and help small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in public procurement by emphasizing local economies. Finally, as a political engineer, I would like to make a special reference to the provisions that strengthen the role of the Technical Chamber of Greece, finally showing him the confidence he deserves, as a body representing all the engineers, but also as the official technical consultant of the state. I will focus on the possibility of drawing up programming contracts for operators with the TEI, which provides them with specialized technical knowledge for the development of projects, whose delay in many cases is an inhibiting factor in their development. I will also welcome the provision for operating and maintenance development by the TEI of the accessibility data log and the Electronic Register of Accessibility Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we have lost a large part of the 2014-2020 programming period, then exploring experiments and acrobats. For a year and a half since the vote on No 4412 we have had a great deal of difficulty in the technical sector and we have delayed too much work. It was a law for which he eventually needed more ink for more than three hundred amendments than for his own writing. The result was to put all major works in place and create incredible sticks, even in smaller assignments. These delays cost the country cost the technical professions and the people of the real economy. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the relevant ministries have already dismantled many important projects. Between SYRIZA and New Democracy there is a fundamental difference of political thought: We see private initiative as a partner of the state and as an important lever of development, with responsibilities and rights for the country's progress. We consider businessmen, traders, investors, public works contractors, their partners as partners in the joint effort and do not treat them with hostility and class division. We do not see them as rich workers, we do not want to take their trouble with taxes and social security contributions that they cannot afford to pay. They are the households of Greece, who go to work early in the morning and go home late in the evening. They are the ones who kept and keep the Greek economy and the hard standing. With the vote on this bill, we are giving all of them and in the country a development tool to return a page quickly and effectively to the post pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u141	The next speaker is Mr Christos Gokas from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by expressing on behalf of the Movement of Change our support for our affected citizens in the regions of Thessaly. We're right next to them. In addition to your first announcements, Minister, all the available state mechanism must be triggered immediately at all levels, in cooperation with local government bodies, to record damages to housing, business and to restore damage and damage to different infrastructures. On the bill, ladies and gentlemen, as the government is used to, it has also given this bill on public procurement the nature of a major reform. But is it like this or is it another attempt to communicate and impress? These are extensive amendments, but will expect some eighty ministerial decisions to be implemented. So the new framework is not even complete, nor will it give the solutions and answers that the government expects. It attempts to accelerate the development and absorption of the resources of the new programming period and of the Recovery Fund. A legitimate objective, but at the same time, needs transparency, control and safeguarding the public interest, through the quality and use of the project, but also sound and not just rapid management of resources, healthy competition and supervision of contracts. Many provisions create problems, do not serve these objectives and in some cases add bureaucracy and administrative costs. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the presence of the private sector with this bill is not accompanied by the corresponding strengthening of the public sector in human resources, modernisation, technological support and training, and there is experience and know-how. In particular on the provisions, the technical adequacy of the contracting authorities shall be assessed by the authorities themselves, without establishing criteria or monitoring of that procedure in Article 9. The increase in the amount of data to be posted to the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts at EUR 2,500 and the increase in direct awards to EUR 30,000 increases the possibility of splitting, opacity and customer relations. Article 19 reinforces the design-building system, but where the submission of technical and economic tenders precedes the approval of the Environmental Impact Study, which can change the technical object and alter the project. So we'll have more involvement and delays. Experience of this system for public works in the past has been negative, except for PPP cases or concessions, with problems with assessments, subjectivity, appeals and delays. Moreover, many contractors cannot respond to the cost of study and participation in these tenders. For the provision of Article 19, a final solution should be provided and the publications of contracts in the regional press should continue for the sake of transparency and information for local communities. For guarantees, Article 21, increased amounts for guarantees or for the convenience of swallowing create additional problems, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, while guarantees of good execution, additional time, etc., should be calculated in the amount of the contract and not of the budget. With regard to the unusually low tenders under Article 32 there has been a lot of discussion. First of all, overcoming the deadline for submission of a statement of reasons, which is twenty days, leads to a reduction in the guarantee letter. It should be clarified whether the process of evaluation of the justification also leads to a collapse. The device is trying to deal with a real problem, but in the wrong way. The designation of tenders as unusually low with a 10-point deviation from the average of tenders, but also with no or no deviation from them, under which criteria and under which reasonable is it made? Many times the average can be artificially created. The system must therefore become more objective and be addressed mainly through the single tariff system. In order to be able to delegate the supervision of a project or study to a private accredited body, Article 57 and Article 89, the contractor shall be selected and paid by him. Its remuneration, of course, is from the project's credits, as is any other supplier of materials or services in the project. This is not a question of conflict between the private and public sectors. We want to serve society as a whole. There is a need for a framework with security rules and diagrams. What problem do private supervisory bodies come to solve? Indeed, public sector services are subordinated. Should they not, however, be strengthened and, above all, should they not be deceived by staying away from the technical object? However, to be honest, the private sector road was opened by the SYRIZA government, which is currently amazed at these developments, by Article 218 of Law 4518/2018 and the formation of the body of special public and private counters. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, there must be no direct dependence on a private body and contractor. If you insist on this institutionalisation it should be extremely limited. The private supervisory body should be designated and paid by the contracting authority and should also define the scope of its participation, as well as of its participation in any case and of the service in the work or study. We have a specific proposal for that too. More necessary, of course, is provision for the award of the project quality control to an accredited quality certification body of constructions. In Article 59, the dismantling of the contractor, in the event that the lead authority does not approve the proposed modifications of the study, easily leads to a farm with deliberate departures in this way. We have already said a lot in the reporting system. Sampling checks went to 30%, but this whole process was first in contradiction with the otherwise strengthening of supervision through private bodies. Combining these two forecasts is a serious problem in the whole process of project control and supervision and cost management. All technicians, public and private, are opposed. So your insistence on the declaratory system is not understood. It is, as I said, necessary to draw up a new, single system of invoicing for technical projects and studies. A special body, a legal person governed by private law, is set up and the final pension should be owned by a public body. The lack of consultation in the relevant articles concerning the Technical Chamber of Greece leads to reactions. The TEI has professional rights issues which are dealt with here and there at three-year college graduates, but there must be no reasonable compensation. We are engineers, members of the TEI, and we want this to be the decent body that represents us. Finally, by closing - and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - with the provisions of the bill, the necessary guarantees for the public interest are not finally established, through transparency and use of public resources for development and for the benefit of everyone. Instead of speeding up growth, there will be delays and, in fact, without ensuring transparency and healthy competition. That is why we are voting against at first reading by voting against the articles that include positive regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Goka. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Georgiadis has called for the floor to develop a ministerial amendment and some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, I put forward some legislative improvements. They'll follow, later today or tomorrow morning, a few more. They're completely typical, you'll see them, parties, "and" etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u145	We shall now proceed to the amendment. I had said he was going to testify. Another one, Mr Bukoro, will be tabled by Mr Livanios, who also has the issue of the provincial press I told you yesterday and two - three other arrangements. I say a little quick what our amendment contains: Article 1, has two regulations, it is on page 2 and page 4, and the rest is a repetition of an old article on additional sections of the Directorate for Social and Solidarity of GEMH, which make the registrations of the services concerned. It's typical. We were asked by GEMH's service to work better. Article 2 is what I have announced to you that we will have an extension of one year in which the chambers will be in the midst of our pandemic, quarantine and closed shops, because we believe that the elections to the Chambers cannot be carried out properly. I would remind you that they would normally be held in November and December 2021, but their pre-election period started traditionally since March, when the ballots began, etc. Now, as you can see, the circumstances do not allow such activities. So their term of office has been extended for a year. In Article 3, the addition that has been made is that while in the existing law, each president of the Chamber may once again apply, i.e. he has two terms of office, we change that as follows. In other words, what is added to the prefecture: it shall not be taken into account and shall not be counted for the re-election of the President of a term of office which is elected to replace for any reason of the President initially elected, irrespective of the duration of the term. There are some chamber presidents who either took up their first term, under political agreement with succeeding other presidents, when they took half of their term, or took their term after the constituencies, death, of their predecessor. So they have been elected once again, so they meet the conditions of the law and they cannot put back, but their first term was not all, was much less. We consider it unfair that these presidents should not be able to run again, since they did not have two full terms. And so we are actually doing so in two full terms, so the substance of the reform remains, but I say it is fairer in this case. Now, Article 4 concerns an extension of the possibility of lodging the chamber balance sheets and deducting the fine that we put on them, which was up to 1% of their annual income, which was a little heavy. Many chambers have not been able to deposit balance sheets in time. We give them a little more time and we remove the fine so they don't have a problem with their operation. So is Article 5 with the extension of things. One is the fine, the other is the extension. Article 6 again is a technical matter. I read it to you: Membership of the Governing Council which has remained vacant is complemented by the list of participants of the same combination. If there are no participants, the Minister for Development and Investment shall appoint the missing members of the Management Board by selecting between five and ten persons, but designated by the Management Board from a proposed list of the relevant combination. In the event of at least five persons not designated by the relevant combination within two months of being vacant, the Board of Directors shall be constituted and shall meet legally, provided that its members exceed half the number of its members designated in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 69. There are two cases in which chambers have a serious operational problem because of this fact and we regulate it. Articles 7 and 8 are OBI regulations, OBI technical regulations on how patents are given, i.e. deadlines. Article 9 is, in fact, a legislative improvement in paragraph 1A. The existing law states ‘from the issue of the award report and until 31/12-2025’. This changes to 'or until 31/12-2025'. The aim of the change is to make it possible, when you buy a real estate from forced auction, to have time to legalize the arbitrary ones it has in it. Because when you buy it from forced auctions and from a man who didn't use it and let foreclose it and hadn't settled it, this property was in a grey zone and it couldn't be adjusted, so it couldn't be done. This is regulated by this legislative improvement. Article 10 is the rules of the Competition Committee, which the Committee has asked us to work properly. Article 11 regulates how the shares of companies which conclude public contracts are to be denominated, whether or not they are members of the European Union. Article 12 is an extension. Due to the extension of COVID -19 and the pandemic we give more time until 31 May 2021 for meetings of boards, etc. From a distance. Article 13 concerns, again because of the pandemic, an extension of the time allowed by the various research centres dealing with COVID to buy materials, etc. This goes up to 30-6-2021, precisely because the initial deadline was overrun by the pandemic events. That is the amendment, Mr President. I would also like to make it clear to the House that I will accept Mr Kedicoglou's amendment, with a general number of 772 and a special number 41, the date of deposit of 1-32021, extending by three months the validity of the authorisations referred to in Article 6, etc. She's accepted. Amendment No 779 is also accepted and Amendment No 48, tabled by Mr Athanasios Athanasios Plenipotentis, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The first thing we have to do is to extend the validity of certain cases where they have not been able to regulate their permits. It's about service stations. The second concerns a request from the Chambers, and I would like to explain it to you. I believe that it will also receive wider support, because I consider it extremely reasonable. We have the cases of chambers that have money of their own, deposited with the bank and want to buy real estate, because the properties that either rent them or are too old, and they are forced and spent money on rents or on permanent repairs, but, like the law today, they cannot use their own money to buy real estate that will remain in their property. So what does this amendment from my colleague, who is being accepted, say? He says that if you have a chamber that has the necessary money and has the need to buy real estate and decide to buy a real estate and after removing the money of the value of the real estate the money that remains overcovering its operating costs - so there is no question of buying the property in the chamber’s operation - in this case he has the permission to do so and can move on with his own money to buy. It is not about the creation of debts by the Chamber, but only about the possibility of using their own money to buy real estate. I think that is a very reasonable request. I think he could also have wider support. Now, I would like to reply a little bit to Mr Haritsis's parliamentary amendments and to the other colleagues from the SYRIZA and Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Katarini and Mr Scandalides from the KINAL - I say them together, because they have some similarity as regards the incompatibility of the money from the NSRP and, above all, from the regions, now that these money is being deposited. The question concerns the Ministry of Finance and not the Ministry of Development. I mean the inconvenience. The decision to become irresponsible is the Ministry of Finance. I find her interesting the idea. In any case, we have put here in the law on our own proposal the incompatibility of the money of the e-commerce, i.e. the e-shop. However, we need further consultation with the Treasury so that we can legislate in the future. It's not urgent today. They're not going to get money today anyway from this program. So it's not urgent. It's a matter dealt with by the government. I've put it in the Treasury, too, and we'll come back. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Catarini, what do you want? Question about the ministerial amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u149	Yes, we can place and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u150	Place on the amendment you have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u151	No, the amendment that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Katrin, I think it was clear what I asked you to do. Do you want to ask the Minister anything about the Minister's amendment, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u154	Yeah. So you have the floor to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u155	In relation to your last abstention for the amendment we have tabled, I think it is relevant to what you have in Article 223. So by tomorrow, you'll have to review it with the Treasury. The provision for chambers and their capacity, since they have financial capacity to go ahead without having to obtain permission from you, I think it is reasonable and at least we are positively involved. Mr President, I would like your tolerance. I just want to remind you, Minister, that for Articles 4 and 5, which were articles of the draft law on investment in Greece and other provisions, which last year the Chambers and we and the other parties had expressed strong reservations, I would also expect you to say that after a year you recognize that it was the zeal to pass these, while everyone disagreed. And, finally, a request. Incorporate the account because in the explanatory statement of the extension to the Chambers, you tell us that, because the election period starts six months before, in May, health conditions will not be normalised. You just said yesterday that in April we were going to the clearing. So the government's account needs to be consolidated. Are we going out in May and April, as you said yesterday, or as the explanatory statement says in May, we will have difficulties and that is why the chambers are postponed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u156	That was not the amendment now. To give the floor to Mr. Himara, who waits very long. Come on, Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who come from self-government, and especially from the previous term of office, I think that we have experienced for the most part what laws 4412. When we were called unprecedentedly in August 2016 for a period of adaptation to the law on public procurement in all economic and technical services, it prevailed without excessive chaos, especially in small municipalities, where subsecution creates de facto malfunction. Questions about services in ministries. Thousands of euros in emergency staff training. Infinite case-law and an endless sequence of amendments - about the four hundred already mentioned - which was a brake on everything, from large projects such as the construction of a swimming pool to a simple supply of consumables for cleaning service. We are all aware that No 4412, as the previous legislation has done, has essentially incorporated the existing European directives on how to conduct public procurement. This is because a significant part of the financial resources used by the public comes from Europe. That's good, that's good. We have rules for every stage of a public contract. We have environmental and social criteria. We have a distinction between the parties, and, of course, the principle of examining preliminary actions. In theory, then, we are institutionally equipped with the European standards that have proved to work in other countries. But what, in practice? In practice, it seems that the law has not taken into account the Greek bureaucracy, nor the major shortcomings in qualified staff and, of course, the lack of the Greek public's organisation until recently. And, of course, there has not been any attempt to parallel the long-term problems. The result? First, you're late. Large and significant delays in procurement, services, and most importantly in projects and studies. Incomplete studies, which in turn led to incorrect integrated projects in financial instruments. How many projects were included in the "PHILOS" programme with or without pre-selects. How many municipalities have had an alchemy, in order to achieve what they have achieved, even by extensions, to submit a proposal to join the "Open Trade Centres" of the PAENEC, because they were unable to carry out architectural studies. Infinite examples. Secondly, unreasonable discounts on tenders, which were necessarily accepted, but also often over-compensation effects. Because it's not reasonable contractor to give 65% discount for insurance. It doesn't even cover the materials. No numbers, no matter how we do it. As it does not make sense to make fragmented assignments for building materials at EUR 24,800. It doesn't make sense. But it's the only way, so that the technical service can put up, so that we can close lacquers after the ices. I do not think you believe that all the self-government is trying to get rich or to outlaw. Unfortunately, they are trying to exhaust every legal way possible to ensure the basic functions of their municipalities. Thirdly, demonic procedures, procedural conflicts, tied hands to self-evident ones. And, unfortunately, two speed municipalities. But to whose weight? At the expense of provincial, small, island and mountainous municipalities. It is no accident, after all, that the CEDEFOP with old and new leadership has been calling for a change in the institutional framework, for which we have made an election commitment, and we are now implementing it. Members who say that the increase in the limit of direct entrustment means a lack of transparency I have to tell dozens of cases of procedural deadlock, for example, broken water pipes which would be replaced by EUR 40,000 and the municipality had to make a brief tender for the project. And I wonder what kind of water the public would drink until the competition was completed. Another example. Invitations are made to fund projects and the preparation of the study is urgent. The services are unable and disqualified and forced to compress costs to EUR 24,800 with what this entails. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to question the intentions of the previous government in terms of self-government. But the truth is that Law 4412 really cut off the hands of self-government and a tool became a captive. From an instrument of more efficient operation it has become a means of strict but inefficient on the principle of the supervision of mayors. Today we are discussing a bill that removes the obstacles of Law 4412: the expanded compulsory use of EADESY, private supervision, friendly settlement, arbitration, the declaratory system, an increase in the limit of awards to promote day-to-day projects and an extremely useful increase in contract award limits for technical assistance in the context of projects co-financed. We all know that European funds are enough and we want speed in the preparation of studies. I am focusing on self-government, because it should not be forgotten that selfgovernment is the one that maintains the cohesion of local societies. Each development perspective begins and ends in it. That is why I can certainly say, after my previous experience as a member of the former regional authority of the Region of Central Greece, that self-government does not need to take the role it deserves. He has already been won by the public themselves. Self-government at last needs the right tools to work unintentionally, to create the foundations that people need to build their lives. The normalisation and improvement of functions in relation to public procurement is another stage that the New Democracy Government has successfully completed in this direction. The next step must follow and concern the expansion of self-government powers, the strengthening of its financial autonomy by transferring funds from the central state to it. Mr Ministers, I sincerely congratulate you on another final and extremely necessary legislative reform. We can no longer be a forerunner of developments. We have to get out front and we have to do it fast. Let us finish once and for all with the state that is blocking, move on to the state that is encouraging, helping, strengthening, which is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Himara. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis will now be given the floor by SYRIZA. After Mr Sarakiotis, two other speakers are left behind and the circle of speakers is closed with a natural presence. Then we will enter the first circle of speakers through Webex, with Mr. Liuta, Mrs. Perka, Mr. Gikas etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, after the two next colleagues to speak to me? I had asked to speak around 16:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u160	Yes, once this circle of speakers is completed, you will be given the floor. Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. We are now coming to place ourselves on a draft law which amends a legislative framework, whose central philosophy was to digitize, rationalise and enhance transparency in the field of procurement and public procurement. For this reason, I imagine, L.4412 was voted for in 2016 and by New Democracy and proved to contribute to the consolidation of transparency in this critical area, despite the fact that all issues were not eliminated from its implementation. An additional assumption is that after the law - parody 4281/2014, which was never implemented, the resolution of No 4412 became more necessary and imperative. In order to make it clear that the country has shown its willingness to comply with its obligation to participate in the European Union by incorporating into Greek law Directive 2014/24 on public procurement in general and Directive 2014/25. In contrast, therefore, to the axes of how to legislate the SYRIZA period of governance that had to do with extending and generalising electronic media as a way of interoperability in public procurement, the drastic cut in administrative burdens due to the economic operators required, the modernisation of procedures, the facilitation of access for small and medium-sized enterprises to public procurement, today come amendments which, without ignoring certain positive aspects of the draft law, are using as a pretext for the rapid use of money that will come from the European Union in the next period of time and are taking advantage of the application of the current framework. In addition, the fact that the large and well-advertised innovation of the draft law is itself criticised by the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts, EFSA. Of course, I am referring to the infamous delegation to private individuals of study supervision, as provided for in Article 90 of the bill. However, let us see what EFSA says about this article, namely what the competent independent authority says about the key element - the flag of your legislation: 'It is established that this article needs to be reassessed primarily to be a coherent and clear framework with the 4412 regulations for the effective supervision of the preparation of the study, without prejudice to the principles of equal treatment, transparency and the protection of competition in relation to the award of these services'. The reason for the principle is clear and its crisis has authority and is clear: this article and the innovation it introduces is not right. They're not well burned. They need to be reassessed so that supervision of the study is effective. And we're wondering, is that why you don't legislate today? To make the existing law of 2016 more effective, better and not to tell you by the competent body, the competent independent authority, that the things that you enter to vote today require reassessment? And if anyone doubts the scale of the problem, let us hear what the Independent Public Procurement Authority adds, which - not least - is there primarily for this reason, that is to say, to give a scientific opinion on the issue of public procurement. First of all, the ambiguity of the Article concerning the nature and the subject-matter of the services in question, as well as the role and responsibilities of the parties involved, is highlighted. In particular, it is not apparent whether it is partly or entirely a matter of awarding the task of supervising the study to a private, outsourcing. In any case, it is not clear whether the person in question is a third party to the employer. It is therefore typical of the message which the independent authority sends: it is a bad piece of legislation, since nothing is clear, nothing is clear. This is a dangerous piece of legislation, since this ambiguity does not guarantee legal certainty, even where it should be fully clear, that is where the supervision of the study leaves the services of the State and is assigned to individuals. And for the truth, the independent authority continues: “It is found that the possibility of entrusting the authority to oversee the study to a private engineer is not expressly conditional. Paragraph 8 of Article 189, to which the provision refers, is incorrect. It shall not be clarified whether the reference in the Article is made to the statement that the award of a supervision contract to a private engineer under 183A may be binding or expressly referred to in contrast to the rules laid down in Article 183, where, where appropriate, the private engineer acting as a designer's body may not, due to its incompatibility with the status as a designer, also carry out the final audit of the study delivered’. So, is that a good legalization? Is this a draft law that we are discussing today on an extremely critical technical field? Is this a good application of European law? Does this ensure equal treatment, transparency and protection of competition? Is the involvement of individuals in the supervision of the study of the necessary guarantees of impartiality? Unfortunately for all of us, the answer is no. It's not for the rule of law, not for the candidates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Before closing, Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on the amendment to the ELIGHTEC, which came just this morning. As you should know, Minister, in 2016, at the Government of SYRIZA, the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation was established by co-financing from the Greek Government and the European Investment Bank. An autonomous institution was therefore created, the success of which is recognized by all. And you are coming today, all of a sudden, without any consultation, and you are undermining the independence of this body, you are undermining the independence of a body whose value is being spoken by the young scientists, the young researchers, who have either lived in our country, who have returned from abroad or have not gone abroad thanks to the creation of the EMI. And now you come to abolish the body autonomous, to abolish the positions of the two deputy directors. You've exceeded every record to the posters, and you're tempted by the two seats of the deputy directors of the ELIDEK. With regard to the importance of this Foundation, I will invoke the special report of February 2020 on Brain Drain, where it states that both for the recovery of scientific resources and for the return of foreign scientists contributes to the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, the ELIDEC. So you come to put your hand in this successful body too, abolishing its autonomous. And that is what you want to baptize and streamlined! I would like to ask you one question: As you should know, the contract between the Greek State and the European Investment Bank states that any institutional change in ELIDEC requires the agreement of the European Investment Bank. Is this assent, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u162	The next speaker is Mr Avgypi Dionysius from the New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Akuppi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has a clear development orientation, and it implements one of the top election commitments of the New Democracy, by simplifying, rationalising and modernising the demonstrable public procurement regulatory framework, which the SYRIZA government has inherited us. It is not by chance - and I think no one in this Chamber will disagree - that the current legal framework for public procurement has resulted in us becoming one of the very few countries in Europe where there are so many delays and delays in the implementation of public works. These very undeniable diseases of Law 4412, which was passed a few years ago by the SYRIZA government, come to heal this bill. Is the question asked: '4412 solved the problems? Oh, no. After all, neither do you today defend him so much. It is no secret, ladies and gentlemen, of the Anti-Population Officer, that the relevant n.4412, which you brought in 2016, was so sluggish and problematic, introduced so many deadlocks that you brought him - we have told him many times today - that you have had to amend him not once, not twice, but at least three hundred and eighty five times. In other words, you have reached the point every day to make an amendment. You were given the opportunity to bring in a legislative framework, which would be right, and you brought in a law problematic. So you must understand at some point that you have ruled and had the opportunity to bring right laws, but that is not what you are doing. In this draft law, therefore, the constant problems of public procurement are finally resolved. It puts an end to the endless bureaucratic procedures that were delaying a multitude of public works. The public procurement system is becoming more flexible and modern, with the main aim of speeding up the opening of major projects for our country's economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of the coronary pandemic has significant economic consequences. In order to address these consequences, a clear and comprehensive draft is implemented by this government, which also covers the provisions of this draft law. More specifically, as we all know, important European resources have been created, which are to be made available through the Recovery Fund to the countries of the European Union over the next six years. Our country has been able to obtain not only a significant amount of money from this fund, but also important funds through the next ESRB programming period. In the next few years we are therefore called upon to absorb an approximate EUR 72 billion directly and without impediments. That is precisely why this bill is now coming in order to simplify the procedures for the award of public contracts, to strengthen transparency, to facilitate the procedures for the inflow of funds and, ultimately, to speed up the implementation of important infrastructure projects, which our country so much needs. Let me refer more specifically to some of the important innovations introduced by this draft law. Through these provisions, we are facilitating the execution of public contracts by subordinated contracting authorities, such as those of island municipalities, which are unable to complete them. Thus, this draft law introduces the institution of private supervision of projects and studies. It is therefore foreseen that the project should be supervised, in addition to the technical service responsible, by a certified private supervisory body. It is also true that, in many cases, the technical services of some OTAs - such as the Municipality of Zakynthos for example - do not yet have the necessary staffing and the necessary technical experience to carry out public procurement, so that a project is not mature and cannot be carried out, which, otherwise, was vital to local communities. The Government of New Democracy has resolved this problem so that the infrastructure projects - particularly in the region - are rapidly completed and attributed to the Greek citizens, who pay for these projects, their added value. In addition, this draft law provides for additional incentives for the rapid implementation of public works. Thus, through the provisions of the bill we are discussing, the clause on additional remuneration for large public works is introduced and the institution of arbitration and friendly settlement is introduced which will lead to a reduction in the years for the judicial resolution of disputes and ultimately to the faster delivery of projects. An advance payment system is set up for public works, and the method of checking the measurements submitted by the contractor is changed, with the aim of protecting the public interest as fully as possible. At the same time, through the provisions of the present legislation, the study-building system is also reinforced. In simple terms, the unmoved process that requires all studies and permits for the maturation of the work concerned is changing. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that at the moment there is a need to increase the operational and deterrent power of the Armed Forces through the purchase and upgrading of armaments. It is for this reason that the Government has formulated a coherent and integrated regulatory framework, which will help speed up the procedures for the award of public procurement in terms of transparency and efficiency. On the part of the Ministry of National Defence, therefore, the draft law includes more specific arrangements for public procurement in the field of defence services and works. The main aim of these arrangements is to improve the administrative process in all phases of military equipment contracts to effectively serve the needs of the Armed Forces. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law, which we are discussing today, is clearly moving in the right direction, simplifying procedures, reducing bureaucracy and strengthening defence planning, as well as our armament planning. I would like to stress that we are also taking a step through the provisions of this regulation so that we can get out more quickly and with more weapons than the difficult economic situation created by the health crisis. The aim of all of us, after all, is to ensure that our country moves smoothly towards development through important and necessary infrastructure projects, which will be implemented directly and in a transparent and flexible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u164	Thank you too, Mr. Cape. Next speaker, Mr Filippos Loading from New Democracy. Mr Loverdos Andreas, who will be the last speaker in the second circle of speakers with a natural presence, will be followed, as we have said and immediately thereafter, by Mr Tsakalotos, a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic which has plagued our country, especially in the past year, is testing the strengths of Greek society as far as possible. The Greek Government has already demonstrated to the fullest extent and directly reflexively defending social cohesion, supporting, in practice, the economy. With a package of measures, which touched 27 billion euros and a new series of measures and initiatives, it shields both the country's sustainability and ensures the transition to post pandemic, a time when Greece will be a fountain of growth and an example of innovation. I am making interventions to tackle the economic consequences of the pandemic on the part of the government, as well as measures supporting Greek society. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But there are also people who live in a suspension regime, people who observe the measures, people who live away from their families, but see all these illegal marches in the center of Athens. The fact that they do not react does not mean they accept them. I therefore call on those responsible for ensuring that the measures are properly implemented and that this whole day's festival ends, respecting both equality and iso-state. Now, this bill we are debating comes to solve problems with regard to public procurement and contribute to speeding up procedures, but also to improving quality and services and works, without discounts on transparency and integrity. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy once again comes forward with reforms, such as the one which reformes the existing regulatory framework. This is, therefore, a bill that moves in the right direction, solving problems, which mainly existed from the existing law, Law No 4412/2016 on public procurement and public works. This law posed too many problems and so far fragmented efforts have been made to deal with them, thereby perpetuating issues that could have been resolved, and moving forward with processes and projects. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to make the necessary changes, but also the necessary changes, so that procedures for the preparation, award and execution of public contracts are governed by transparency, simplification, speed and efficiency, without delays and without hooks. What innovations does this bill bring? I am mainly focusing on Parts I and III of the existing draft law, which deal with public procurement issues - of course, but also procurement and works - and also with general provisions of competence mainly of the Ministry of Development and of the Ministry of Transport. With the current bill, therefore, the design and construction system is being strengthened, the process of the tendering of projects of special importance to the economy of the country is being accelerated. The unusually low tenders in the projects are being dealt with, which is very important. Private project and study supervision is established by a certified private body with expertise. Furthermore, the possibility of arbitrary resolution of disputes arising in connection with projects of more than EUR 10 million is being introduced and the possibility of a friendly settlement is being introduced. They are also modernised, digitised and the procedures are simplified, the delay in the delivery of projects is being fought, and, of course, the draws for the promotion of committees are being abolished. Finally, a single system of technical specifications and invoicing of technical projects and studies is being established. It simplifys and clarifys the framework for public procurement, reduces bureaucracy and increases the participation of small, medium-sized enterprises in public procurement procedures and ensures cooperation between the contractor and the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis dares to design and implement all its election commitments, focusing on the development of more quality projects and on the treatment of chronic pathogens in the field of public procurement. This draft law alters the way in which tenders and public procurement will be conducted in future. These are provisions relating to projects which will employ the Public Investment Programme, the Recovery Fund, development law and the NSRF. In particular, as regards the Recovery Fund, which was created in the midst of the pandemic’s financial difficulties, it has resources relating to infrastructure, green development, digital convergence and strengthening entrepreneurship. One of the important works of this fund is the electrical interconnection of islands with the main electricity grid of mainland Greece, which mainly concerns Cyclades and Crete. This is a mature ESDP project, which will be clearly transferred to the Recovery Fund with a year of start-up of the project in 2021. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Provisions are also introduced for the Greek Development Bank, which contribute to its more efficient operation, to the fulfilment of its objectives and to its adaptation to modern requirements. Finally, we could not refer to the provisions of Chapter IV in Part III of the bill, which relate to the accessibility of disabled people to public infrastructures, which deal with key issues to improve their everyday life, but also their service, something which is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns us all and the economic operators as well as the contracting authorities, but also the whole of society, with transparent criteria and strict sanctions with fair market rules. We have a bet to win, ladies and gentlemen. Greece's exit from this economic crisis, and the consequences of the entire pandemic. Our position as representatives of the Greek society is to help strengthen the development of both the public and the private sectors. The demands are great and the need for reform is more urgent than ever. We still have a long way to go and the New Democracy Government will not stop until it does all its election commitments to modernise and rationalise the public and private sectors for the country's healthy economic development. With faith, therefore, in our powers, vision, morality, but also very hard work, we will be able to put Greece, but also in the Cyclades Prefecture - I would say personally - in a high, sustainable, intelligent and socially fair development orbit. Be well, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u166	And be well, Mr. Loading! Good evening, you and me. The circle of speakers with a natural presence will be closed by Andreas Loverdos from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start my speech by expressing as a university professor, Professor of Public Law, my wholehearted and wholehearted support to the dean of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Mr. Nikos Papaioannou, for the really brave act of asking for legality and thus showing that if in the field of university teachers were to perform their duties under the law - at this point and obviously not in the contents of their teaching - the universities would be much better. It needs courage and courage, and this problem will be solved. Apart from the laws passed by the House, I consider this action to be a very good start. And I come to the point of the draft law. Madam and honourable Members, since the summer of 2020 I have argued that the problem after the pandemic will be the economy and the recession. So I said and slowly - I formulated my thinking better, more authentic in relation to reality, saying that since the end of the pandemic or its interruption, Greece will face the problem of unemployment and poverty. So, as far as the economy is concerned, as I know very well from politics, but also from my legal experience, the most serious means of dealing with poverty and unemployment is growth. The money, therefore, of the support framework, of the support plan which will come from the European Union in their various forms to the countries of the European Union is much. If you do not want me to say'many', I will say enough. But the question for each country is how it can absorb them in the best and most developmental way. This is where the issue begins, ladies and gentlemen, and not from the transfer of funds, but from the absorption and use of funds, from the cross-cutting to every financial framework, for each financial support framework. Here we have the need to finance the economy, here we have the need to support people and entrepreneurship. In order to be able to complete my thoughts, of the many issues which the draft law has, I will concentrate on public procurement matters, the main theme of the draft law with an emphasis on public works. In Greece, ladies and gentlemen, we have experience of decades, good and bad. We have excellent engineers, we have an experienced public administration, and at the same time we have corruption. But we also have a demonic legal framework and terrible delays. We have no reason to spoil, Mr Karamanlis, the good texts. The delays must be eliminated without compromising transparency. Obviously! This is where you fail. You make two basic changes, the supervision of the works entrusted to individuals who are chosen by the contractor, and the way of the measurements, not every measure and payment of money, but one at the end. That is why I do not have enough knowledge to speak positively or negatively and I hold back. But I've got the first one. The delegation of supervision to a private investor who is the choice of a contractor is, Madam President, a practice that really exists - I accept it - but which relates mainly or exclusively to self-financed projects and not to projects relating to public works, public contracts with the payment of funds from the public and from the various programmes. It's not about it. Here is an innovatory, modernism number one. For the innovatory number "2", which is the measurements, I will not speak. So, what adds here where it didn't exist? This point is added, i.e. the private control of the selection of the contraaor. Does this speed up, improve or accelerate? No, because the government, in turn, to the highest grade and you want, you do not want, it will remain supervising. Yeah? Good! But here, as we are lawyers and lawyers of the profession, we are diluting ourselves, because until the experience is acquired, we will have a new involvement. We'll have the same, there won't be any change. Instead of a private and a control command, in the end, we'll have two individuals and a control command. So the forecast is that there will be no progress in terms of time. The House won't tell you about corruption, etc. And it won't be wrong. All the legislative initiatives that I remember wanted governments to say 'accelerating' and oppositions to say 'corruption'. We had no acceleration, but we had corruption. The other thing you should touch and touch - but I will tell you how you regulate it - is the invoices, that is, the over-pricing they even make, and the reduction of discounts. I don't have time to explain it. But here, we have two years of inertia in making speeches and a process that has been going through from now on until the new regulations are implemented by means of regulations. I could say that the invoicing case is mentioned in the future, since there is no direct provision, and there are many mediation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What would the solution be? Because you're going to hear criticism of this style. I've heard that for years. But I can't stand it anymore than anyone else they say. I can't stand it anymore, ladies and gentlemen! I can't stand it anymore! So what's it called? That there must be a solution to speed up procedures. In the House there is not one who opposes this! Not one, not one! We need to speed up the procedures! But can it, according to our proposals or proposals, be complete, quickly, institutional guarantees, which the more you put, the more corruption you have in order to circumvent these? So what can be done? I've realised one thing, which I'll say, I'll call it, and whoever wants it, let's hear it. Delays produce social costs. They will now produce social costs to tackle unemployment and poverty and not to complete a project that we need. This is poverty and unemployment! You go speed up and don't speed up, so there's a huge social cost. So let's load it on the back of the one who produces it. Why all on the civilian's back? So let us see how this can be done, what I would do and what I propose to you as a Member. Complex administrative actions consist of several enforced administrative acts, which are self-sufficiently offended. The delay here is endless. Of course, the independence of justice, which also has its time, its institutions and its opinions, good or bad, is also involved. After all, justice is independent, and we will not tell her what it will do. We take care to make it easier for her, not to consult her on her decisions. So many acts in complex administrative energy. Why don't you stipulate that one will be the defendant, the last one, the shooter? But the last one. How long are you going to get off that course? You don't. Fear! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers are probably better aware of this than other colleagues - perhaps engineers can help us - that in a public contract in the steps ahead and in the end interested parties are intervening with administrative and judicial actions of all kinds, intangible and inexpensive. Two meters we need here, not one but two. The first is an exclusive deadline, the law says it, but the administration and justice do not listen to it, but they must have read it, a short deadline for administrative appeals to decide the Proceedings Review Authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u168	And hang up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u169	You'll give me a minute. I have no room for it. I'll be back in a minute. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, a triple of expenditure. You won't be producing costs for society. If what you're saying doesn't stand, you'll pay for it. Now heavier the measure I'm going to say. Are you doing insurance measures for everything? Yes, sir. What are you paying? The cost of insurance. What are you doing late? That's it. Rejected? You will be charged with 1% of the project's budget. To see now, will these practices of each other's sabotage continue? Where you're losing, you're making a sabotage so you don't get the project done and you're costing society? You're gonna pay for it, man. It won't be intact. And yet another initiative, a productivity premium in the administration that quickly does would not be bad. I will, if necessary, leave it in the judgement of each Member or every Member of Parliament and the Minister, of course, who has the legislative initiative. I shall close, Mr President, in my last sentence. Mr. Spirtzis, engineer, President of the TEI and friend, made an arrangement in 2016 with Law 4412. Do you know how many modifications Spirji made? Three hundred sixty in his law! How many changes did Mr Karamanlis make over the two years that he has been in the Ministry's leadership? Eighteen, nineteen, somewhere there. I promise you, I tell you seriously and very friendlyly I tell you to avoid it - but you will not be able to do so, because you will do so much because you have a draft law with the same weaknesses, you will intervene in words, in dictionaries, in strawberries, in dozens, in articles of the current legislation, which do not bring about the speeding up you are seeking. Corruption, because more guarantees, 100%, burdens, blocks with new procedures that do not offer and avoid those regulations that will really be innovation and give impetus to public procurement. We've also made public procurement authority. The Court of Auditors shall intervene. We have done everything we could for so many decades - I am not thinking of one thing - but of neglecting what is the problem, of overlooking the fact that we give material and money to societies, of course, who benefit from the delays, but do not break, I think that it is also a co-responsibility for those who propose a law and who oppose it in terms of the air of the perpetrator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u170	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has asked for the floor, Mr Karamanlis. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to what Mr Loverdos said, a very experienced politician and I have always listened to his speech and speech. Let me begin, Mr. Loverdo, with something I think you'll agree with. We are living in a state which at last has to deal with the huge issue caused by the hysterical opposition against everything, and which, as you are doing in Greece, depresses, if you want, the limits between efficiency and transparency. This is the main issue today that we are discussing, if you want to go a deeper level, how can public procurement and public works have a speed - that is what we are asking - be effective and transparent. For the sake of transparency, supposed transparency, we have often put efficiency on a second fate. So the balance that should exist between these two very basic concepts does not exist and such balances take years to create them. They want stability policy, they want institutional adequacy, to work. And that's what we're trying to do now. I now come to the substance and I am surprised that KINAL makes criticism or has some objections to the subject of private supervision. First of all, we as opposition - because we said this as an opposition, it is a pre-election commitment - took as an example what you introduced in 2011, Mr Loverdos, the building auditors. The building auditors were a pioneering legislative initiative taken by your government at that time, and in fact they managed to deal with the problem of huge corruption and the huge delays in the towns. This was then done in private projects and to a very large extent as the supervisory role of the state was working. So, with regard to the matter of private supervision, I would like to tell you that control - and I say it once again - will be exercised by the management. Her assistant to date has the employee and he will have a private employee from tomorrow. In the PPP projects, you mentioned quite rightly, the supervisor has a binding force on his actions. In public works, supervision is an introductory character and not a decisive one, i.e. a contracting entity that does not have the technical competence and does not have engineers to oversee the project will, if it wishes, be able to get an engineer from a specific register, as is done by the building auditors and do the supervision of the project. Now, in substance and practically everyone will agree - even those who are not engineers, nor I am engineer - that when the quality of public work is not taken seriously, it is problematic. So, ultimately, who opposes private supervision? He opposes the person who knows that he will have a very strict control framework. Now I'm gonna fix you, and I'm gonna say charming that SYRIZA didn't change the law three hundred and sixty times, it changed him three hundred and eighty-five. In every law that is so complex there will also be some of its articles that may require some modifications or improvements. You're a senior lawman and you know that's what's going on. But what did we do? And I think that is unprecedented in legislation or not often done. We didn't come to amend the law for the last two years every five days every three days. We did a very serious job with specific committees, have worked out many ministries, and in total we are coming and we are doing an institutional intervention. Certainly this institutional intervention is not written on the plates of Moses. There may be flaws, there may be problems. In committee, we have heard and taken into consideration both Mr Georgiadis and speakers, many comments by the institutions and we have corrected several imperfections. So here we are listening to your remarks, but I think that there is a misunderstanding in the matter of private supervision. The main point, Mr Loverdos, is that this supervision is an introductory one. We don't force anyone to take private supervision. I also think, and I think that the common sense dictates this, that when there is serious supervision in a project - and this is in PPPs and concession contracts - then the final product, that is, the work delivered for the benefit of the public, is much better than what is delivered today, which is often - especially in small projects, in the municipalities or in smaller contracting entities - no supervision is actually carried out. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u173	No, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u174	Wait a minute, 'cause he made a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u175	Your parliamentary representative is Mr Scandalidis. Put things in place. Because at 6 p.m. there'll be marches, we have to close. You will be afflicted. Please be typical in time, to finish, because you will be afflicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u176	I've done a replacement. It's unfair for parliamentarians to ask for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u177	But, parliamentarian is Mr. Scandalidis, Mr. Kegeroglou. It's my fault? I have two Members of Parliament and Mr Georgiadis to speak. We'll have time problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u178	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Kegeroglu, answer Mr. Loverdo. Why are you embarrassing me? Let Mr. Scandalides be here to answer. He's a parliamentarian. The speakers will be asked to speak on the other side.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u180	He has a right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u181	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. The misunderstanding has been resolved, obviously. Minister, as you quite rightly said PASOK, in the context of modernising the system of production and implementation of public works, control and transparency and in general the administration system, it has made innovative decisions and reforms since 2010, in the difficult period when some were in the square and were shouting certain slogans along with the anti-immemorandums. In 2010 and 2011, it was a period that was crucial for the country, where the reform that you referred to was actually carried out. But are you paranoid, Minister? In this case, when we debated the bill, which was clearly in favour of the integration of the private sector into the control system, we talked about the need for rules, and we said about the distortion you are doing, of choosing the auditor in charge. We have a public project, we don't have a private home or a private construction. So in public work, the one who is the accelerating for control and supervision is the public. So it is our proposal that there should be a record of auditors, with specific rules, as analysed by Mr Katrinis. Through this process and not with the choice of "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks", we have this system. We are therefore not opposed to entry into the private sector. We disagree with the way in which he enters, and above all with the choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Bukkoro, the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u185	As rapporteur, do I not have the right to add to the dialogue that is taking place, to matters of a purely legislative nature?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u186	No, only the parliamentary representative if he is present. If everyone does the same, Mr. Buckoo, when will we be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Kegeroglu is a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u188	I've done a replacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u189	Please! There's a rule. Do we keep him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u191	Let go of the process. Then you'll tell me you want the floor on staff. You've done this to me before. Mr Chakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. I want to begin with one, two issues of topicality and the issue of rights. We had a well here, with the President of Parliament, who said that Mr Mamoulakis should look at the seven things Mahatma Gandhi says he should not. The last thing is to make politics without principles. What are you doing these days, saying that whoever supports prisoners' rights is 17 November? Is that what you're saying? That Mr. Sophie, your man, is he with 17 November? Mrs. Bakoyannis, Mr. Javaras, the JRC, the Mera25, the SYRIZA? Your parliamentary representative this morning raised this issue and did not have the honesty to say that Mr Dritsa said what he said and then corrected it immediately. He forgot to say that. That means politics without principles, and that is the whole story of the New Democracy. You've always done this. I will testify to the Practical News from the murder of Bakoyannis: "Everyone shows PASOK", "The Pasokian "17 November", for another murder, "Friends of Laliotis the terrorists". Is that politics on the authorities? And now the same? Haven't you learned anything from this story of yours? Were you saddled by an entire fact that he was supposed to be with 17 November, and now those supporting rights are with 17 November? This is a way of politically discussing the issue of rights, what is one's right, when and why is he entitled to it? Is that how we're going to keep going? Ladies and gentlemen, the Left in all its versions has always clarified its position on terrorism. From the beginning. Always! Much older than '74, when there were terrorist acts. And really, what upsets me and lowers the level of politics is that you don't believe it either. You don't believe it. Do you really think Theodore Dritsas is petting her ears "17 November"? Does your other representative, Mr. Ploris, today say that SYRIZA is a political arm of 17 November? Are these serious things about a modern, conservative party? We all know Thunder Dragon. And I know that from all sides of the House you privately say the best, about how honest he is, about how prepared he is always in Parliament that he is a man who comes with arguments and not lines. The left owes a great deal to Thodoris Dritsa and to his action in Parliament, but also to the movements, to Piraeus. You don't believe it, but everything is allowed in such a controversy. Because the issues are serious and Greece should not be like Erdogan and we have death from a hunger strike, I advise you to discuss this, you should press too, because it will be a signal to your party and government. Some of you may invest that in the short term you will win, that we will have far-right, authoritarian reflexes, but you know that in the end you will be left with this. It will be the only European country after Thatcher and IRA who left a hunger strike to die. And that has nothing to do with support or no support from '17 November'. As Mrs Bakoyannis said, rights are for everyone, and when we tell everyone, we mean everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u193	Please, he didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u194	I have no idea what your opinion is about democracy. And to go back to Gandhi, I have no idea what principle you have when you're legislating. Is the minimalist principle of democracy that we can do what we want because the people voted for us and after four years only had the right to drive us out? We do not need democracy in matters that are not about pandemic, objections, demonstrations, while you legislate what you want, as you want? I do not understand, for example, why in the pandemic you may today vote that there are no demolitions. We have also heard a member of the New Democracy who said that 'I speak as a political engineer and not as a politician' and said that there is no problem with them. Of course, Mr Karamanlis said that this should not be done. Is that the signal we give? Why can you vote for demolitions, but can't you quickly solve the problem with school meals? Why can you give the supervision of public works - I will return to this - but you cannot find new executives - and I will return - with training for the public sector? And why you can legislate for the police in the universities, but you cannot bring a law on the public health system to give a signal that you understood something from this pandemic and the role of the public sector in defending public health. We proposed the new ESS yesterday at the excellent event with Alexis Tsipras and university high prestige. That's where excellence and dignity seem to be, not other matters. You cannot understand what has changed in this society for the public health sector. I think that after 2009 you did not understand any of the ongoing crises, economic, financial, climate and democracy crisis. I understand from Mr Karamanlis, who spoke just now, that the big problem in Greece - and that is obviously why we went bankrupt - is that we had too much transparency. In other words, this was what characterized Greece and what everyone said: "Okay, children, transparency, transparency, but mercy now. There is no need for such transparency!' Is that your opinion? Have you realised that, within the end of neoliberalism in 2009, too many scandals have erupted precisely because of what you are doing now? Does anything remind you, Mr Karamanlis, Minister, of the 'Enron' scandal? What was that scandal? There were more of them. It was that the sworn accountants did not take a serious look at why they wanted jobs from 'Enron'. And now you're bringing us something that has just this conflict of interests to enter private surveillance. You said to us: 'You made the Engineering Register.' Really? The same thing is a record of engineers, so is it that we give them supervision, and those who oversee will be paid by those who oversee it? And you see no conflict of interest, why would these private people not want to break it up with a company in which they have to do supervision and supervision, and on a second and third, and on a second and third projects? Why are you doing this? Because you don't want to invest in public. You don't want this public control to exist. You do not want to understand that neoliberalism has indicated that it is not all corruption from the state and from the public, but it also comes from the private sector. This was shown by ENRON and so many other cases. The only counterweight to this private corruption is the state that you want to degrade it, not have the power to be able to deal with it. What did you understand from the economic crisis? That medium-sized strata and medium-sized enterprises are going well in America, Britain, France, Germany? Why do you think there's Trump, Johnson, Salvini, the AfD in Germany? It is precisely because the policies of neoliberalism have not given, they cannot give space to small and medium-sized enterprises. And for what your own policies exist, there is what we say the 'push' of medium-sized and medium-sized enterprises. And you bring something that all of our speakers have analysed, which is once again about 'big fish', for large-scale investors. And, finally, do you realize that we have a climate problem, that the whole world is talking about climate change, that it is a dominant issue that concerns all our young people, all our new children? Your answer is Article 219 which Mr Hatzigiannakis and Mr Santorinios and our rapporteur have analysed. So do you really think there will be a public project within the NATURA region and then a study will be retrospectively brought to an end? That's what you think. All the reading of history, how does the Greek state work, push you to this conclusion, that the environment has more security after 219 than before? Is that what you understand? First of all, you do not even bother to align this bill with what your Prime Minister says and what Mr Skakakis will announce about the Recovery Fund. Where does it appear to be a need for greater emphasis on the environment, for all together to face this crisis that is so much of a concern to young people? Nowhere. It's like it's another thing. We don't need to talk about the environment here. We are not concerned about the demolitions that will not happen. We are not concerned that even in an NATURA area there will be disasters, both ecologically and for our cultural heritage, a cultural heritage that you have shown on the metro of Thessaloniki how much it burns you, that you have the whole society and all the scientists against you. Why did I raise these major issues of transparency in the era of neoliberalism, the problem of middle classes, the environment? Because I really think that only the progressive forces, if they take the ecological movements seriously, the movements in favour of democracy, if they unite their powers first in the social field, can bring an answer. You don't have it. You do not understand what this triple crisis has brought to the surface. It's like you're in 2009, there's been some crickets and jobs are going on like before. This needs to be stopped, we need to overthrow it and all the progressive forces need to discuss very seriously and strategically how we take into account all the things we have learned since 2009, because you through all the bills you bring, seem to have learned absolutely nothing. I am tabling your history on 17 November. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chakalote. Be well! Because I know you are being drowned right here, I will give the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport the floor again. But please, through my heart, keep the second. Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I did not want to intervene, but I really do wonder how the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative is reopening the debate on terrorism. You have to decide on what boat you're on once. Do you step on the boat of radical and extreme left, activism and intolerance, or step on the boat that some in your party - and obviously your Chief wants to take you - which is the boat of'social democracy' - into introductorys, so as not to offend the KINAL - and the Central left? With the words you are saying here, you are reopening this issue, which I think we all have to close. What did the former Minister Dritsa, whom you came here to defend? Understanding what he said in a country of liberal democracy, Parliamentarianism of the 21st century, a member of the European Union. He said, and he actually revealed his ideological kinship...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u197	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u198	I didn't interrupt you. I didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u199	Let him say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u200	I didn't make any personal references.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u201	You're right. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u202	He told us that terrorism is not a threat to democratic institutions. You picked him up. He was gathered, made a statement "yes, but" and now the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative comes and opens this matter. But, well, is it ever possible to open this matter? What are you doing? You're doing terminology to your Chief? Yesterday he presented a whole programme, which I read very carefully, on health issues, and now we are opening up terrorism issues? These issues should have been closed and closed. Read - and I close with it - the statement by Mr Momferato's victim's son, who is shocking. He said that "we want Koufantinas to live", but, Mr Chakalote, who is a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, you will not decide neither you nor I nor any politician in which prison he will serve his sentence. That must be decided by others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u204	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u205	Please speak to the Minister. Do you want to talk now? You'll say the same thing. They'll have to answer you later, Mr. Chakatte. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u207	You're a parliamentarian, you have the right. Take the two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u208	The Minister did not have the kindness and courtesy to deal with either of my arguments, nor with the correction of Thodoris Dricas, but also - because he says that we are bringing the matter back again - to speak about the other parliamentary representative. Is it the government's position that SYRIZA officials are "17 November" political arm? This is how you think we're going to go further? This is what your parliamentary representative wrote. That is what I wanted to clarify. Is that a way of dealing with politics? And finally, I realized that the government does not want to do anything to keep it from saying that a hunger strikeer died in its day. This, Mr. Karamanlis, I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u209	It seems from what you say that you wish that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u210	You seek it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u211	We support rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u212	Please, both of them. Mr. Chakatte, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u213	I don't think I'm interrupting myself. So, I say you think about it, because that's the main issue, not what Mr. Plearis says, and not what you said now, for throwing the ball in the platform. Things are serious and he wants a serious thing your side has not shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u215	Mr Brutsi, you have the floor, but I would ask you very much for the second, because the Minister has come, too, to speak with Mrs Bakadima, the Minister, and then to go to the speakers via Webex. Please. Don't respect me, but respect your colleagues, please. And you will be afflicted by leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I am consistent, but the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has taken the floor twice. Given the time I have, I would like to make two or three points, in response to Mr Tsakalotos. I consider it provocative, Mr President, that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsakalotos, can shake his finger on this side by taking lessons of democracy. Remind the story of Mr. Tsakalotos, who may not know it or perhaps wants to eliminate it, that this fact called "New Democracy" restored both the Republic and the Constitution in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u217	The University did it, not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u218	It's us, Mr. Chakalote. That's the party!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Chakatte, you didn't like to be interrupted before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u220	It is the party that restored the parliamentary institutions with Constantine Karamanlis and is the party that brought democracy to the country. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Does it bother you? Why is it bothering you? That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u221	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u222	I have not interrupted the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u223	Slapping and on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u224	What poaching, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u225	Please! Finish it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u226	Lie and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u227	The Republic and the Constitution were restored by New Democracy and Constantine Karamanlis, by this party. This is indelibly written in stone, in the stone of Greek history. The second is that we saw Mr. Tsakalotos invoking what? Newspaper, press. We have never invoked either what 'AUGSH' says or what 'DOCUMENTO' says. But what do we say? We have called for statements by your Members and your officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you remember your Member, Mr Balaura, who was talking about the ideal of "17 November" or yesterday, Mr. Dritsa? You are saying today that he has recovered and made a corrigendum. The morning we were talking, SYRIZA didn't make a statement either. He was forced to do it. I spoke of the deafening silence of SYRIZA, who was forced to come after and make a statement, sliding through the social outcry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u228	Please finish, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u229	I'm closing, Mr. President. In any case, let's get serious there at SYRIZA. Their choice is to choose the part of society that they want to go, to identify with a small minority that dreams of revolutions and names in the square of the Constitution in the name of Koufontina! But it's their youth who had the banner that wrote the name of the architro-terrorist killer Koufundina for Syntagma Square. It wasn't EMU and the SGP. It was SYRIZA's youth! This is the truth, we condemn, this is what we are saying, but this line to all sides of the House is the fact that we want national reconciliation, because we believe in our country, we believe in the unity of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Mamulaki, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u231	We do not believe, Mr Tsakalote, that SYRIZA staff are armies of 17 November.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Brutsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u233	I never said that, nor do we believe you are, but your behavior and your statements turn lights upwards. It's your responsibility. You're on your own. You're on your own. Evaluate yourself from the Greek people. We're here to criticize you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Georgiadis, in ten minutes you will speak. You need to talk now? Let's give the floor first to a lady, who I think you're going to give her, Mrs. Bakadima, who from 16: 30 is waiting to speak, and then you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u237	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u238	I know you're very kind. So the parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Fotini Bakada has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I shall use the time of my speech, as a Parliamentary representative, to defend one of the two amendments we tabled as a PART25. I think it is conscientious, and it is something that we have heard and heard not only from each of us, but also from collectively, the fact that the pandemic has really been on our knees for almost a year. It is a pandemic that came to bring too many economic problems and intensify the entire ten-year monumental crisis, with everything that it had in our already burdened economy. Of course, with the opening and closure of business, we see every day and the cry of despair of the country's trade clubs, but also of entrepreneurs and workers in businesses, which are really shocking and we should, we really think, be able to do so in order to create a framework of holistic and real, practical support for businesses. So we are tabling this amendment, which, as a matter of urgency, has the support of the pandemic-sponsored enterprises. You will allow me to comment briefly on her articles. First of all, we are proposing to extend the support already given to the EUR 5 000 that companies can receive to create an e-shop. What we are proposing is a corresponding subsidy for all companies that have proved to have been hit by the pandemic so that they can, if they do not want to create e-shop themselves, repay debts that have been collected all the time to their suppliers or be able to buy new goods. Because it is true that when we lead to the opening of the market, whether it is 16 March or whatever day the green light is given by infectious agents, the question will be to open the shops safely for workers and consumers, but also to open them with goods that they will be available to them. The second article of the amendment we are proposing is the conversion of the repayable advance into a non-refundable and, of course, with additional labelling, that this be irreversible, tax-free and that it is not offset by any other debt. In addition, we propose public aid, with the contribution for about one year to the instalments for the repayment of all kinds of loans to the enterprises that have proved to have been hit by the economic pandemic, which goes hand in hand with health. In addition, we propose that tax and insurance obligations be discharged. Initially, the proposal for a law was in our proposal for the period from 1 March 2020 to the end of 2020. We now come to add that it will be possible for this period to be extended in order to cover the entire period of crisis for companies because of the coronary pandemic. Continuing, we propose extending the deadline for payment and suspending the collection of certified debts to the DUs or to audit centres, again for the period from 1 March last year and for as long as the pandemic continues to bear on the companies. Next article and our main proposal are the abolition of the tax advance. For one reason, it is not possible to ask for the tax obligation to be imposed yet, especially in the period that we are living with and with companies when they are operating normally not to know how many they are coming back into operation. The next is the reduction in the tax rate to 15% for small businesses, i.e. for enterprises of up to 30 employees, 20% for medium-sized enterprises, between thirty and two hundred ninety-nine employees, and 29% for very large companies of over 300 employees. Of course we could not propose what we are saying - and it is one of our constant proposals - the rationalisation of HISPI to benefit those who have no property. For example, we suggest that HNPH is zero when the value of the property is up to 70,000. These are our proposals very briefly. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, to ask you to accept the amendment and to be supported by all of us, as the need to support small, medium-sized and medium-sized enterprises is truly vital. You know, we all say it's the backbone of our economy, small businesses. That's what it is. So this backbone has to be supported to keep it from breaking. It has to be supported so that we don't see one lock after the other, when the stores will be reopened. I think we should show the political will, by legislating for the citizens, for the people who have small businesses and for the workers, show that we are legislating alongside them and not against them. That is why I would like to ask you to accept the amendment, Mr Minister, and to be voted in favour of it by colleagues, because it is not a micropolitical issue, it does not have a micro-policy on these issues, and it should also be understood that we are not standing in our ideological differences when it comes to the good of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u241	Before I first place myself on the bill, I would like to say a few things about what has been heard, which are quite outrageous. That's not what I expected from Mr. Tsakaloto. I'm coming to the most serious one first. Mr. Chakatte, I'm talking to you. You mentioned three times in your speech a so-called statement by Mrs Bakoyannis. You said, "The rights apply to all, and when we say "for all" we mean for everyone", implying that Ms. Bakoyannis belongs to those who have asked for some kind of retreat of the Government for the Hunger Strike of Dimitris Koufontina. I read Mrs Dora Bakoyannis' exact statement. Perhaps she has dispersed the whole of her statement. I'll submit it to the Minutes in a little while. "Democracy is neither blackmailed nor avenged. The laws must apply to all and apply to everyone in this particular case.’ I mean, Mrs. Bakoyannis has said exactly the opposite of what you implied. I put the statement from Mrs Bakoyannis in Minutes to see with your eyes that you have misunderstood it and wronged it. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not only has there been no violation of certain laws from the point of view of the rule of law for Dimitris Koufantina, but there should not be any violation of the rules of law, as Mr Koufantina is asking for. Especially for Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, for reasons that I believe you are very well aware of, we cannot play and make a mistake as to what she has said about this. That's her statement. What Mrs Bakoyannis says is what the government is saying together, the New Democracy, and I believe the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. What do you mean? Let's get this straight. Does any of us want Dimitris Koufantinas to die? I assure you, no. None of us want it, just as none of our fellow citizens want to die for any reason. After all, this is our warning from Dimitris Koufantina himself, who wanted his fellow citizens to die and some killed them. Today I heard the ambiguity of his plea of defence, Mrs Kurtovik, which said that the relatives of the victims exalt him when they call him "killer". Dimitris Koufantinas has been convicted of eleven murders. He's a murderer! He's a criminal with a court boulder. He's a killer because he has confessed to the murders. It is not a question of telling Dimitris Koufontina "killer". It's an objective reality. So what has been heard in the Greek public sphere over the past few days is beyond fantasy. So I'm rejoining. The exact statement by Mrs Dora Bakoyannis - and then I would like you to see it on your own, with a simple "gull" you will find it, if you want to make it up to you - is: "Democracy is not blackmailed or avenged. The laws must apply to all and apply to everyone in this particular case.’ What's our argument with you? You faced a 2015 hunger strike by Dimitris Koufantina. Then he had a hunger strike because he didn't want to be transferred to the Korydalu prisons. After a few days the government of Alexis Tsipras retreated to Dimitris Koufantina's request, did not take him to Korydalou Prison, as he did not want to go. They then changed the laws for the benefit of Dimitris Koufantinas, went to the rural prisons and spent a few years'sugar', because you did all the favors to him. We, unlike how you did it, do not legislate about Dimitris Koufantina. We are legislating for all those who have been convicted of offences such as those for which Dimitris Koufantinas has been convicted. And he comes today and makes a hunger strike with the exactly backward demand of 2015 - in 2015 he made a hunger strike not to be transferred to Korydalus, today he is doing a hunger strike to transfer to Korydalos - and he is acting toward Greek society as a spoiled child, who thinks he has some divine right to treat him in a special and special way all others. We do not recognize Dimitris Koufantinas any divine right to treat him in any special way, and that is what Mrs Bakoyannis said: "The laws apply to all, they are the same for all. Democracy is not avenged." That's right. However, democracy does not do justice and is not blackmailed by anyone who wants to blackmail it. It's over. All I told you to do is fill it out. None of us want Dimitris Koufantinas to die and my personal appreciation is that he won't die already. Because the doctors are there and they have the responsibility to do what they have to do so that they don't die. It's been issued, as you know, by the prosecutors' order. They are obliged by law to save their lives and the European Court of Human Rights has ruled on what doctors should do in such a case. It is not, as you know, torture the compulsory feeding, if a person's life is threatened, but according to the European Court of Human Rights it is necessary to do so. So there the doctors will do what they have to do and I really believe, because I don't want it at all, that Dimitris Koufantinas won't die. All the other things you said leave me outraged. As regards Mr Dritsa, Mr Chakalote, in order to make this clear, our criticism of Mr Dritsa is not even made of his nature, whether he is noble or not - I say to you that he is noble - nor on personal grounds. It is made on a very specific statement he made just after, but this does not deny his original statement, which was appalling. And it's not just scary the point he's raised, it's something that's dissipated your attention and lured you. You said, Mr Tsakalote, that the Left in all its appearances and all its historic path has clarified its relationship with terrorism. Apparently, you're kidding. I'm sure the story of the Left knows it better than I do. Many left-wings have historically had extremely close relations with terrorism. You know, don't go now, and I'm doing a historical analysis of the Left. She's not here. But what you are paying attention to is that in his interview yesterday, Mr. Dritsas admits it - he himself admits it - what he said, except what he said in relation to the fact that 17 November did not terrorize any Greeks, etc.Huh? Then, of course, he said an interpretation. Let us give it to him in the spirit of humanism. He said "17 November" killed only representatives of the right-wing party. Mr. Chakatou, since you believe Mr. Dritsa and you trust him, please give us an interpretation why 17 November only killed people on the right? Why didn't he kill the left-wing party, according to Mr. Dragon? 'Cause obviously '17 November' felt part of the Left', namely the armed extremist left. So everything you've said about the cleared left-wing role and terrorism in time, forgive me, but they don't even go to history 1 in elementary school. It's good now that SYRIZA clears it up. I am pleased about Mr Dritsa's 'authorization' today by SYRIZA. I have to tell you that I consider it very much progress and I am pleased that I, in part, contributed to my speech yesterday in committee. For this is the first time I remember all the time that Mr. Tsipras is President of SYRIZA, where a SYRIZA official is "empty" in this way publicly. It is a step forward for SYRIZA and it is a step forward for our democracy that is welcome. As far as all those who are protesting and whether we should talk about youth and whether we should make suggestions to youth, as the SYRIZA rapporteur said before, if I have listened well, no one is above criticism in a democracy and, of course, not even youth. When some decide to protest in Athens holding banners that says "We were born 17 November", that is, "we are with a terrorist organization and we are proud of it" and when the slogan of the rally in which SYRIZA youth participates is "When the rebels enter Athens, the Syntagma square will be called "Dimitris Koufantina"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u242	It's not true. Not SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u243	I didn't say SYRIZA's youth was saying it. I said that this wider gathering also involved SYRIZA's youth. Evidently, SYRIZA's youth didn't say it. It was called by SYRIZA's youth and SYRIZA's youth heard it! Perhaps the most beautiful answer given is that of Petrolakis: "When the scarf is not free, the Constitution will be called the Axarlian Square." That's what they should have told those guys that were saying these slogans. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, Mr Tsakalote, because we on our side have been victims since 17 November, as your colleague Mr Drikalotis admitted, a little respect for New Democracy and its history on these issues would not be harmed. And I expect your correction for what you have gone to load on Dora Bakoyannis, I sincerely believe in error and not intentionally. Because if it were intentionally, it would really be tragic in this case. That's all on the subject. And I hope that the lawyers of Dimitris Koufantina - because I refuse to call him a'master' - will advise him properly. I don't know why you made a special reference to Mr. Theme Sophie and said he was ours. I don't know why Mr. Theme Sophie is ours. Mr Sophos came down an independent president of the Athens Bar Association and not with the support of the New Democracy. Mr. Sophie has decided to support Mr. Koufantina's request. It's his right. He's an attorney. I don't know that's a political matter. What is a political issue is SYRIZA's unambiguous support for Kufontina's request to violate the laws for his sake. And, unfortunately, it is also - partly - the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides, not with the same intensity, I must confess.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u244	Take no responsibility for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u245	I believe that Mr Tsakalotos will raise the subject of Mrs Bakoyannis. The lawyers of Dimitris Koufantinas always have the opportunity to appeal to Greek justice, for any right of their client they consider to have been violated and their request to be judged by independent Greek justice, as they would have done for our fellow citizen. But there can be no special treatment in Dimitris Koufantinas from democracy and stop saying it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let's go to the bill. Two words I want to say quickly. We have said so in committee too very much. Because we've come to this piece of legislation. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues. The debate in the committee was constructive. Many of the objections which have been raised in committee have been accepted. We withdrew Rule 192, precisely to respond to some of the concerns and opposition, as set out in committee. In the new legislative improvements, which we will be tabling tomorrow, there will be an adjustment of Articles 189 and 190. We heard the objections of the President of Chambers, Mr.Michalou, to the article on GEM for construction companies and the Technical Chamber of Greece. There was a good understanding today between the Technical Chamber and the Central Chamber Union. There will be a legislative improvement, recasting these two articles, so that there are no concerns raised during the hearing. We have talked about the amendments we have tabled. On the issues of private individuals' involvement in public works and their implementation, Mr Karamanlis has responded and he will reply tomorrow to his main speech. So that too - I think - it's okay. I would like to say a few words about how we got to the bill and then I will close with Article 219, which has also come back to criticism today. As far as the bill is concerned, I mean, to hear the Greek people, how we arrived here: When we took over the governance of the country, we saw very quickly that the public procurement procedure was developing everywhere too late. There were so many possibilities of litigation, so slow the procedures, where, in fact, competitions ended when the materials, which were bought were of old technology and were no longer of use. We understood in the case of the Greek, which has been so critical of the Opposition, that only the conflict of two companies, HARD ROCK and MOHEGAN, led to a process based on Law 4412 that we lost over a year between the Independent Board of Appeal and the Council of State until we reached the final result, which was what the committee said at the outset. In the meantime, however, more than twelve months were lost with this delay. This experience motivated us and then made us run faster because of the events of the pandemic and the need to absorb a great deal of resources in the next few years in public works and we decided in March 2020 with Deputy Minister Papathanase and we set up the Prefecture Committee headed by Professor George Dellis. I would like, in particular, from the Step of the House to thank the Professor of the EMCDDA, Mr Dellis, for his extremely important contribution personally and all the members of his committee, to get to this excellent piece of legislation, which now as a parliamentary expert after 14 years, I can tell you that serious reactions to the size of the bill did not meet, neither in committee nor in plenary, which shows that it is well-written and answers real demands. The Inter-Governmental Committee, which I had the honour of chairing with all the co-operating ministers involved, met many times during the months. We arrived at the public consultation at the beginning of the year. We have included and read comments that have reached the five hundred pages of public consultation and which, as far as possible, we have incorporated into the final drafting of the bill. We have arrived at the committee during the planned parliamentary term and we are here today, to become a state law from tomorrow, following Parliament's vote. That is to say, this bill is the product of a painful, lengthy and busy work of many different ministries and many different people. What's the target? The aim is, without any discounts on transparency, to have a very high speed. Our rapporteur, Mr Bukouros, has explained them, and I would particularly like to congratulate him on the thorough analysis he has made in his report and today in plenary and the previous days in the committee meeting. Indeed, I believe that we have reached the best possible result of the links imposed by the European directive. I have already heard Mr Andreas Loverdos' suggestion. It was important. But much of what Mr Loverdos said is bound by the European directive and cannot be overcome. I say it, because many people may have the question, why don't we go to faster and faster procedures. This bill, which we have brought, in the opinion of the special legal systems that have drawn up it, moves right to the limits of the speed allowed by the European directive. And that's what we'll go for. The possibility of posting on the Internet from a lower level of public procurement, the definition of contracts of minor importance, the increase in the amount of direct awards, the reduction of the duty on legal proceedings and the time limits between each step of legal action, the merger of the relevant procedures, the registers, which are created and so on, all of them converging to one thing: creating greater speed at greater transparency. But the bill doesn't have that. It also has regulations, which concern the Technical Chamber of Greece and which, in fact, has dealt with us quite a lot during the committee. We trust the Technical Chamber of Greece. We give the Technical Chamber of Greece a greater role to help the state mechanism. We believe that this will speed up and help the procedures. In the bill, there are provisions for the Development Bank, for which I would like to make a special reference. The Development Bank in these months, which I have the responsibility of the Prime Minister to have the political leadership of the Ministry of Development and Investment, has presented a very large task. We had the excellent honour of DG ECFIN the day before, to have for the first time the very positive impact on the Greek economy of actions by the Greek Development Bank. Of course, the arrangements we bring will give the Greek Development Bank the opportunity under private economic criteria and at the speed of the private sector to become involved in human resources and to be able to develop its products in order to cover a wider range of the market. And, of course, there are other provisions that regulate a number of issues. In order to avoid abuse of time, I shall stand in Article 219. And from the point of view of SYRIZA - Mr Famelos repeated about today what he said to the committee - and from the point of view of Mera25 - Mr Arsenis literally said what he said in committee - are standing in the reaction of environmental organisations. First of all, my reference to Mr Arsenis, to the committee, when you are found by environmental organisations, means that you are doing something good, it was obviously ironic - I wonder he did not understand - as to what Mr Famelos said. And I explained why and I tabled them to the committee yesterday, let us not say the same again. Because Mr Famelos as Deputy Minister for the Environment of the Government of Alexis Tsipras was found having environmental organisations make public appeals and condolences for his decision on Volos and the cement industries to back off. He did not retreat and did good to the Greek economy and the Greek cement industry. My reference - Mr Arsenis is not here, but I am explaining it to him because it was not very ironic - it was ironic to Mr Famelos rather than literally. As to the concerns of environmental organisations now, which I do not want to pass on, I would like to explain them in order to reassure them if that is possible. What's Article 219 doing? Article 219 did not come in to stop drawing up the global plans. The exact opposite is true. If the global plans are to be issued at the planned time, Article 219 shall have no useful effect and shall not apply. Why does Article 219 say? It says that where there are no studies, where it provides that if, during its extradition or after the adoption of this Presidential Decree, these studies are completed, they automatically prevail and therefore do not harm them at all. There will also be an ad hoc procedure which will have all the environmental protection safeguards. In other words, depositing a specific environmental study, drafting a TBR, approval of the relevant committee of the Directorate of the Ministry of the Environment and preventive control of the Council of State for the adoption of the Presidential Decree. There's no other insurance policy to put on. We could also use Critona Arsenis' approval, but that would mean that he would never get any presidential decree since it is known that Mr Arsenis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u246	All right, all right, now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u247	But I have to answer. She tells me every time. What can I do, dear fellow? I've heard it four hundred times from Mr. Arseni. I'm tired! I repeat, as many insurance environmental protection barriers as exist in Greek and Greek legislation, they have all been included in this article. So a good guy has no reason to worry. Some bad guy's gonna worry about whatever we're gonna write, whatever we do. I'm addressing the good guys now. You'll tell me, but don't you trust that they'll be the plans ready on the planned dates? I'm letting people hear us answer for themselves. Do you trust the one who hears us that they will be able to make the studies on the planned dates? I want to be honest. I sincerely hope they will succeed and I will celebrate if they succeed. However, I must say that the process has started since the previous government and has lasted for five years and has not finished. If they're done, it's fine. If they do not end, however, we must also be able to make a decision, make a job which respects the environment and the insurance regulations I have just said. That is what Article 219 says. Anyone who is trustworthy understands that we have no intention of harming the environment. I repeat that whoever is ill-faithful, no matter what we say to him, is absolutely irrelevant. So the article won't be withdrawn. And if you want - speaking politically, and I am referring to Mr Tsakalotos who has commanded the Greek state - there is also a lever of pressure for everyone to know that they have to keep the dates and do their jobs and not waste any time, as is usually the case in Greece. So I see no cause for concern, and there's no reason to make this whole fuss. I respect the concerns of environmental organisations, but they may be a little too little. The rest of the debate will take place tomorrow in my written speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u249	The debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u250	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u251	Mr Scandalides has the floor first to ask for it. Only I would ask that this matter be closed as soon as possible. I don't think that's the number one for this country, Koufantinas. I don't think Koufantinas is involved first. But we've consumed an hour for Koufundina.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u252	They have done so, Mr President, at the same time as the parties. They made it "1".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u253	You haven't spoken so far and you have a right. Of course Mr. Kegeroglu spoke, who did me a trick!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u254	I want a second, Mr President, on this matter. I'll speak tomorrow properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u255	I'll give it to you. You're the only one who didn't talk from the Change Movement. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u256	Here we are constantly living a theatre unbelievably around an issue that concerns Greek society and employs blackmail within the days of its crisis, with all its consequences. It's the well-known theatre that's played every time. It is a peculiar political investment in a convicted by almost all of the democratic world, despised and perpetuated crime, in which no democratic arc would have another view. And I imagine that no party has any other view, regardless of what is happening at this time. Secondly, political exploitation is unacceptable. You have delayed, Minister, to the legitimate rights of the convicted criminal to give answers and delayed unauthorizedly so as to legalise his ability to do the hunger strike. It was an act of government failure. You were able to rectify it either by institutional intervention or by anything else. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, found the opportunity on the right to wake up a story that has nothing to do with Greek society and its needs today. It says very well - Mr Minister, you read the newspapers and, in particular, "Kathimerini" a serious newspaper - in a very nice cartoon of Hatzopoulos. It's Themish who keeps the scale without scales. Mitsotakis and Tsipras have taken one and then left Themida! This is the biggest political article written for this story we've been living in these days. This procedure must be stopped here. It can't go anymore and the Greek people can't hear it. It is now enough with the rightfulness and exploitation of the public feeling. Yeah, a lot of people say he's going to die. You may not say it yourself and your executives. Your fans say so in many parts of the country and everywhere. Because that's the public feeling. Apart from a small piece that tries to express it today, the other party that claims this thing. Here too, there are no historical counterfeitings. Karamanlis did not bring democracy to Greece. It was brought by the struggle of the Greek people. Karamanlis basically led the effort with all the political world then to restore it and succeeded. We recognized it historically. Because if we get into this story, the question is, which part is, the junta stumbled, and if we go back, we'll get to the civil war. Is that what we're talking about? Are we going to talk about this again when we have a mountain of trouble in front of us? That is my opinion, and that is the opinion of my resignation. And the Change Movement was totally different from the way you regularly handled the issue - and I think you did it deliberately - and the way SYRIZA picks up every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u257	I am pleased to have you sign - and I too sign - that it is no longer enough. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, I would just say to Mr Scandalides that rightfulness is not an expression of social democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u259	It's in quotes, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u260	The history of social democracy is just beginning with the labour rights that he wanted to increase in civil rights and then to social rights. The Minister, Mr President, was more careful than the Minister for Transport and the Parliamentary Representative. He did not say that SYRIZA had these slogans or that he had this banner, as Mr Brutsis said. The Minister asked me to withdraw for Mrs Bakoyannis. I don't know what Mrs Bakoyannis meant and she has to interpret it herself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u261	You've been interpreting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u262	Wait, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Buquarre, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u264	When a man says that the state is not avenged and the laws apply, and the law tells you that someone who is leaving is no longer entitled to agricultural prisons - says your law - is relocated to the detention store from which it was originally relocated, what do you understand what your law says? That he leaves the rural prisons and goes where he left, where he was Korydalus. Don't underestimate, Mr. Scandalides, the rights. It's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u265	You didn't understand the term.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u266	All right, then I withdraw it, Mr. Scandalidis. I don't want to insist on that. But, Minister, you too must respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u267	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Buquoor, can I speak without interrupting or is that not there? Mr President, this is your job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u269	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u270	Mr Minister, you have been gone for a while and I do not know how much you have heard either my speech or the debate. I put on a topic. The parliamentary representative told you - not Mr Brutsis but Mr Ploris - that SYRIZA is a political arm of 17 November. This can't pass like this. It poisons the climate. Others, the conversation we can have, 'I'm interpreting your own law, do you interpret it better? Do you interpret the Court of Justice correctly?' You know there's a lot of case law about this and the World Medical Association has one view, the United Nations has another view. This is another debate and another one. So, do you really think Thodoris Dritsas is a political arm of 17 November?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u271	And that's what you're gonna do, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u272	No, he only spoke 11 minutes for me. I need a minute. I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u273	Ten spoke, but we'll get it over with sometime. There's a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u274	Do you really think the Tedore? Why do you pick it up? And finally - and I really need twenty seconds - we know that Adonis Georgiadis is not a president of Turkey's fan club. It will be a great challenge to become 'Turkey' and to die a hunger strikeer in our country, in a European country. I tell you not about political controversy. I tell you precisely why there are gray zones in the law, precisely because there is the question of interpretation of what I have said. You have a chance not to die a man. It's not good for you. It's not good for democracy. It's not good for anyone. That's what I'm asking for in a quiet way. The only thing that upsets me is the attack on the 'political arm'. The other is a matter of discussion and you have the opportunity to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u275	The Minister has the floor. Mr. Bukowos has to send me a little paper, I'm waiting for the paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u276	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Scandalidis very much about this. I do not accept in any way that our followers want Dimitris Koufantinas to die. And please very much what you said to ask to be deleted from the Minutes. No New Democracy fan wants any man to die. It's over and out. I don't accept it. I said it in my speech, we do not want, to God, Dimitris Koufantinas or anyone else to die. I also told you my wish and prediction - and I hope more so because provision on such matters belongs to our superior powers - that, if doctors observe what the European Court of Justice says, they will not die, so don't worry so much. Mr Tsakalotou, first of all, if you read what you said in your prototype about Mrs Bakoyannis, that Mrs Bakoyannis said that rights are valid for everyone, and what you have now read applies to everyone, you will immediately understand that you have made a mistake. Whether the law now says and is interpreted in the way you say, and we say something else, in the civilised countries when people disagree whether or not they have been violated by any of their rights under any law, what are they doing? They're going to court. Neither will you judge the law nor I judge the law. Neither will you convince me nor will I convince you. So what do civilised societies do when we have such a disagreement? Let's go to court with our attorney. The court meets, interprets the law and says whether we are right or wrong, and we go accordingly. As we learned from Mrs Kurtovik's official press release three days ago - and I have you to know it, I will find it now because it is of some interest to read exactly how she said it - Mrs Kurtovik explained why she has not resorted to Greek justice all this time. So listen, because it has not been requested - one minute to find it, although it doesn't matter, I remember it from memory - and perhaps this will shake you a little in terms of its size because you're wrong. He said: “I haven’t taken refuge, where should I go? In Volos courts, which had overturned the judgment of the Ice Arrow and had accepted the Mitsotakis’ admonition to be a heroic court?’ That's the first reason, that is, he didn't trust Volos' courts! Kurtovik: ‘Where should I go? In the administrative courts which are irrelevant and do not know how to interpret a simple provision?’ He didn't trust the administrative courts! And third reason: “And where should I go? In the court in Lamia, which has no competence and has had the son of one of the victims as former regional manager?'! In other words, Mrs Kurtovik told us publicly that 'I, gentlemen, am a lawyer, I do not trust Greek justice - and my client - and I do not go to Greek justice, because the court is 'pressed'. Does SYRIZA accept that all courts are “pressed” and irrelevant?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u277	You should testify what Mrs. Kurtovic said. But he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u278	Of course, I'll testify now. As soon as I'm done, I'll print it and testify. That's exactly what I'm saying. I have a very good memory, so I was a very good student with very high grades. So, be careful now, SYRIZA comes and insists on what? That for a fellow citizen in Greece, Dimitris Koufantinas, who considers that he is wronged by an administrative decision depriving him of any right - what you mentioned - an exception should be made. And this one citizen, Dimitris Koufantinas, should not go, like all our other fellow citizens, to court, but the government should intervene and change its law or decision because he considers that it is wrong. You're not telling me, Mr. Chakalote, how many decisions have you made that some of our fellow citizens thought were wronged by your decisions, you know? How many of our fellow citizens took us to the courts against the decisions made by you, as Chakalotos - or I as Georgiadis, do I not call it disgraceful? We've ever said to anyone: "Oh, no, don't go to court. Come on, let me untie you. I'm going to change my decision, why do I like you?" Are you suggesting that the government should do Koufontina or for some reason that Koufontina should receive any privileged treatment, other than all other Greeks? I see Mr. Kamine who's also made an interpretation. I respect him as a former Citizen's Counselor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u279	And please close, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u280	I read Kurtovik so it doesn't seem like I didn't say it. Kurtovik: "No, when the competent court is the court of Volos, which had the courage to publicly urge the current Prime Minister to stand up and overthrow a decision of the Ice Bay, the one that justified the request for permission from Dimitris Koufantina. No, when administrative court judges are completely ignorant of a penitentiary code and do not even have the body of the contested judgments. No, when the Lamia Court of First Instance, unreserved anyway by the law, if it does not feel that it has to stand up to it, will awkwardly stand before the austerity of a political decision that touches not only its former republic, but also the country's own central authority, the Prime Minister." So Mrs. Kurtovik in her announcement tells us why she hasn't applied to justice. And I honestly ask you with great respect, because you know that I consider you a serious person, I do not say it ironically, I believe: is it possible that SYRIZA will say - for KINAL I have not understood yet if you say so, I want to understand - that especially for Dimitris Koufantina, something other than for all other Greeks? He's Dimitris Koufantinas superior to all the other Greeks, and he has to be something different for him? I can't help but wonder what you're saying. Finally, I should like to refer to the statement made by Death Ploir, so that it does not appear that I am going to pass it. I know that some things sometimes hurt, but you know when you have a missionary to Mr Balaura who had said the famous: "November 17 was killing for humanitarian ideals, for man's ideals," that's what he said. Do you remember that at all, Mr. Chakatte? A bad faith, I say, when he hears that a member of a democratic party is saying that a terrorist organisation has killed, but has had humanitarian ideals and that party takes no action on this executive and holds it, what signal does this party give to the Greek society in its relations with terrorism? Yesterday's statement from Mr. Dritsa was repacked and SYRIZA cleared him today, no objections, but you said something that bothers me personally. You said: "Is it reason for this statement to rise so much, especially after it has been repacked?" SYRIZA tells me that if I go out on a TV show and get away from a party, you put me in the first moment on all your party site and newspapers and you play me for thirty days. And if I go out and explain it another thirty times, there's no explanation of me ex post, only the original statement remains. That's what you do to me. And you come to me every day to do this to me and say, "But why do you do it to poor Dragon who, after all, got away from him and did it overshadow him?" It's not like that, Mr. Chakalote. Mr. Dritsa made a very big mistake. The statement he made is creepy. Her recuperation doesn't launder him, because that's where it seemed what she really believes. And I heard the sound a lot of times, to believe that he did. And, unfortunately, he did, and this is a serious political problem for SYRIZA, who is not so easily overtaken by a simple repair, Mr Chakalote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I have asked you to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Bouquet, would you say something different? Oh, no. We're talking about an hour and a quarter of Mr. Koufantina!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u284	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u285	Just a minute, because you'll tell me what Mr. Kegeroglu did. That's what you're going to tell me, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u286	No, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, if we start talking to the rapporteur, then it makes no sense. I'll start after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u288	That's right. It started by Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u289	We either respect the procedures or we stop. There's no other way! The Minister spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u290	Because Mr. Brutsi is missing... Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Bouquet, look at me. Let the gentleman... Just a minute, please, very much. I'll turn you down your microphone and you know it. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u292	Because Mr. Brutsi spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure must be observed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u294	You didn't give me the floor before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u295	Oh, you, too, a minute! We'll go to Webex then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u296	I'm explaining...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u297	No, Mr. Bukkaro, you're going to open a subject. Please. I ask you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u298	I would explain that I have asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative because Mr Brutsi is absent. What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Catherine's gonna tell me to talk. Please don't open this up, Mr. Bukkoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, can you give me the floor and then remove it from me? To figure out what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u301	I beg you. If you have a little friendly, you'll understand me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u302	Leave it now. Do not make designations and do not make judgments that touch each other’s personality and behavior, whether there is a friendly or not. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u303	You should not normally ask for the floor if we do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u304	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u305	You can explain to SYRIZA's chosen colleagues that in time and while the Minister was speaking, I informed the Chair that because Mr Brutsis, our Parliamentary Representative, is missing, and because I have the post of Deputy Parliamentary Representative, I asked as Parliamentary Representative the floor for a minute, the very same thing that happened with KINAL before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u306	Is there a replacement paper coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u307	Of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u308	I informed the Chair orally. I made it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u309	There aren't those mouths, they're as unborn!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u310	If you want to talk, it makes no sense, I give you one minute, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u311	Let's go to Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. Bukoro. Mr Athanasios Ljutas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u313	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, public procurement is a key and crucial part of public investment and, therefore, as a whole, of the development of our economy. Their importance is particularly high, as the objectives set by effective, useful and publicly beneficial public procurement are the economic development and diffusion of economic benefits across society without unduly wasted and uncovered public money. Public works bring jobs, increase income... [[It didn't sound because of a bad connection]] ...the target is moving our Government with this bill of the Ministry of Development and Investment. This draft law is of great importance and particular importance. Ladies and gentlemen, with the arrangements that are being introduced we are coming and we are still implementing a pre-election commitment, a commitment that was summarised and summarised in the need to implement projects for citizens, projects that will provide real benefit, projects that will be implemented on the basis of transparency, efficiency and the great economic and development benefits. This draft sets out the necessary foundations for the implementation of this objective, which come and strengthen the contract of confidence signed by our Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis as a whole with the Greek society and in particular with each professional and social group. The fact that this large section is coming today highlights two things. Firstly, that our reform work does not stop in the pandemic. On the contrary, reforms continue... [[It didn't sound because of a bad connection]] The second one, which highlights the fact that the changes introduced will strengthen our institutional framework, so that we are ready and efficiently responding to the historic moment that comes through the funds of the Recovery Fund, so that we can transform our productive model. I should like to point out, in particular, that regulations are being introduced which really solve problems. It was a real need over time. The image of ponds, timeless diagnostic procedures, great bureaucracy and great time delay is not an image that can characterize a modern country that really wants to lead its society to a time of prosperity. We are changing this picture with a view to progress and the future of society. In particular, under this draft law between the other very important and essentially entering and the following: The tender procedures are now being replaced by electronic award procedures, the system of electronic lists is being tightened up and any tender that deviates more than 10% from the average of the total bids will now be checked, progress towards the shortening of the time of judicial dispute resolution, the system of electronic lists is being introduced, compulsory compliance with the contractor of the electronic log of the project, an incentive is being introduced to deliver important infrastructure and is being introduced and the establishment of the register of supervisors. In addition, this draft law sets out extremely important arrangements regarding the framework of our procurement and procurement in the field of our national defence. Recently we have all seen the great need to strengthen the operational and deterrent strength of our Armed Forces, the need which is satisfied through our firm and decisive steps, which promote the benefit and great operational and strategic reflection. With regard to the new provisions now, there are arrangements which will, in substance, optimise our strategy based on the axis of greater speed, efficiency and undeclared transparency. In particular, I would like to focus on the fact that programming is being strengthened in defence equipment supplies, both in relation to the long-term and the traveller. The incoming provisions make it more effective to draw up the programming timely. Everything will be done on the basis of a specific design. Long-term programming shall be made 12 years and the corresponding rolling year for more than four years. At the same time, new regulations simplify procedures and reduce bureaucracy. There is no doubt that the new framework is coming to strengthen the very important strategy that we are working on in the area of national defence. It is a strategy that has already brought about and will lead to extremely important and great national benefits in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of this draft law, which we are coming and discussing today, gives a decisive response to how to achieve sustainable development. It's actually turning the road. It is our great goal, and on it, from the very beginning, we have planned and implemented a substantial and decisive strategy, the strategy of substantial reforms, the strategy of modernisation, the reduction of bureaucracy, the safeguarding of the public - economic and social interest. The pandemic of the coronary put a new reality both in terms of health and economics. In response to the new challenges, the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis gave substantial answers, answers by means of decisions, acts and even works of substance. That is what we are continuing to do today and therefore also putting light on the structural distortions that exist in the state and resolving them one by one. Each provision of this draft is given solutions, change things, facilitate situations, promote works and work. They are the objectives set and the objectives to be achieved, as this government has the will, the aim and the ability. He has proved it, proved it, and will continue to prove it in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u314	Thank you too, Mr Liuta, for keeping time. Mrs. Perka has the floor from SYRIZA. I would also ask Mrs Perka to be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try. I'd like to make a little mention of what Mr. Georgiadis said. I can't avoid it. In relation to the respect he has requested for his prolongation, I have one thing to say: respect for the New Democracy must win him as a modern European liberal party that respects the rule of law. If the country records the first dead hunger strike, it is officially degraded to a problematic part-democratic regime. The rules of the rule of law apply to everyone. The exception from the law is an end to democracy. I'm on my way to the bill. Minister, I will begin, avoiding everything, with the major issue of private supervision in public works. Without many words, you do not want there to be public control over the production of public works. And no, Mr Georgiadis, we have no ideological issue in the possibility of assisting the public administration from the private sector. You said something like that. The ideological issue is yours, it is the government, which is willing to do everything in order to serve specific private interests. And, Mr Karamanlis, as far as your statement is concerned, private supervision is concerned, you have even upgraded it today and said neither too much nor too much: "Serious supervision equals private supervision. And who does not want serious surveillance?" But do you not understand that with what you are proposing under this bill, the control will be determined by individuals who will be selected by the contractor? They will go package and change roles depending on the project. One will be the contractor and the supervisor over the other project. There's a clear collision of control and control roles. The issues of transparency are particularly important and the public will be unable to exercise any control. How, then, do you think we will have a better product? Of course, you have already referred to the remarkable staff of the General Secretariat of Infrastructure, which is helping today in the earthquake in Thessaly. So trust them, Minister, in their top responsibility for supervising public works. Of course this is always the response of the New Democracy, the subsidization of the public, to bring the most competent individual - so they see - to save the situation. Not even a reason to strengthen services! It does not concern the long-term loss of the know-how of civil servants, the institutional memory of the administration in the end. I really don't understand, Minister, why you still hold the engineers in public, if you don't need them. But I guess I'm wrong. You need them, because the management department loses its essential role, but it holds a full responsibility. Regarding the possibility now provided by the draft law for a project notice without environmental approval, what can I add here? The National Council for Infrastructure and Construction said it all. This provision is extremely problematic and should be amended. Because it has been correctly said by many colleagues that we are interested in the speed of the implementation of projects, you will allow me to speak as a political engineer with more than twenty-five years of experience in public works. So I would like to inform you that the basic parameter for the speedier implementation of projects is the maturation, maturation of the dossier, the study. This article not only does it not achieve the maturation of the dossier, but it obviously goes far back. As far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, and in this bill - we have seen it in others - you are making friendly efforts to disappear from projects and studies. A number of interventions create large financial requirements, and with the banks in fact closed up for small and medium-sized enterprises, or restructuring, we would say, of course, for the benefit of large companies. What if the rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke of 'airplanes', the Minister for Infrastructure described them as more elegantly 'detectors', that is to say, that they are supposedly only being blocked. The reality of all small and medium-sized enterprises is different. Your real policy on small and medium-sized enterprises is described in detail and emphatically in the Pissaridis report. "There are a lot of them and they hurt competition." It is also problematic that the provisions relating to increasing the limit of direct awards from twenty thousand to thirty thousand, without any margins of security, as well as an increase in the limit of EUR 1 000 to EUR 2,500 for contracts exempted from the obligation to make public are, I think, one of the characteristic examples of the draft law, where with the new flexible regulations, opacity has to be seen as being a given one. So far, you have done so against the pretext of pandemic. Now with the legislator's booze. Is there really nothing you would like to do with transparency? And, of course, for the system of auditing in a declaratory, although you increased the rate, there is a lack of control over the quality of projects. You don't even care about the quality of your projects. As far as the arrangements for the Chamber of Technical Chambers are concerned, I can only welcome the fact that they have been withdrawn. Of course it was the result of great reactions from the technical world as a whole and institutions. We look forward to the proposal which will result from the necessary work done in the Chamber of Technical Chambers. But since, Mr Georgiadis, as you have just said to us, you so much trust the TEI, that you play its part by supporting the amendment we have tabled, so that the technical consultant of the state does not have to register and therefore equate graduates of doubtful-quality colleges with polytechnic graduates. I hope, however, that after the outcry of withdrawing and the infamous article 219, for which no too much has become a mess. The Minister for Development, however, has no reason to worry, since, as he has said, the article is very reasonable and perfectly legitimate and, of course, characterised the number of reactions as exaggerated. Since the beginning of the meetings we have been talking about provisions that are contrary to the European framework and Union legislation. We are talking about the country's first conviction - it is Decision 849/2019 - and the most visible risk of our country's second conviction with a fine that can exceed EUR 400 million. Will you take that responsibility? The cynical response of the Minister of Development is, of course, that Greece has further convictions. Yes, sir. More than twenty major environmental organisations have therefore expressed their opposition. There are also the Commission's 'Nature 2000', the central advisory body of the State. Over twenty-seven thousand signatures have been gathered. Yet the government ignores all the above for the sake of investment. Let us be honest, you have very specific investments in your mind. And you know why I'm saying that? For it is a question of large investment, since specific environmental studies and strategic environmental impact studies will be needed. These are not 'poops', they are big investments! So we continue to call for the immediate withdrawal of this shameful article, of course, as far as the amendment on the non-repealing of arbitrary beaches on a sanctuary and beach is concerned. Which villas, which businesses are you photographing? You are otherwise pro-environmental, as long as certain interests are not affected. And one last thing, Mr. Development Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u316	And finish, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u317	I'll finish this. This does not mean investment that is sustainable and efficient, with eye closure and graceful arrangements. We're in another era. Design tools, operating framework, legal certainty are required. The Greek is a characteristic example. Didn't you learn the lesson? You concluded a letonium contract on a plot without topography, without planning, and after we finished it as far as we could, you electionfully told us that there would be an investment in a week. Of course you didn't. I would remind you, therefore, only that we are a European country and I will bring a random example. Does the Minister for Culture of a country have to protect the cultural heritage and culture rather than make it easier - by how many discounts? - investments. Let her retire along with her shames. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much. Minister Papathanasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor, because Mrs Perka as an engineer she referred to the subject of private supervision. I must tell you that Mrs Perka as an engineer and member of the National Chamber of Commerce surely in all four and a half years of governance of SYRIZA she knew and knows that the private supervision of building works is carried out by independent engineers, building auditors. We should therefore ask here whether this measure really has succeeded, because throughout the governance of SYRIZA, it was the measure of monitoring building infrastructure with building auditors. I would therefore like to tell you that the state will not lose its right to control. On the contrary, the state holds the ultimate role. The agency has the right to check and clearly private supervision. It preserves, if you like, the good quality of works. And then, the service, the state, has the right to control this service provided by the free engineer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u320	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Consolas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to Mr Boukoro, our rapporteur, and to the committees and to the plenary, who have made an improvement on the part of the law, but also an approach to both Mr Brutsis and Mr Brutsis, but also to the ministers, who see that transparency, speed of implementation, flexibility and efficiency have remained the same for many years as regards public works and contracts. The previous government also brought a draft law aimed at improving the framework for public procurement and works. It was, however, an inadequate bill. It has not solved any of the major questions, something that has emerged from the debate in the committees, but today in the debate on the House. This is demonstrated, in addition, by the fact that in August 2016, the law was passed until July 2019, when the elections took place and the government changed, over three hundred amendments of this law were made. In fact, just before the elections, the previous government brought in a new law, Law 4605/2019, which changed eighty of the articles of the original law. Mr President, each of us understands that this alone shows the scale of the problem and there is no point in criticising it. We have made a critical approach here today all of our colleagues from all the wings. In practical terms, however, we all live every day. We see no significant progress being made. All citizens see it when, in fact, the projects do not go any further in all the counties of the country. There are no projects of over-peripheral importance. The people of self-government live in particular in their everyday lives. The red tape and bureaucratic obstacles do not in any way constitute a guarantee of transparency. On the other hand, it often acts as a lever to circumvent the rules of transparency. And that's the truth. It's a reality. In many cases the existing framework for public procurement and projects has not just proved to be inadequate. He is also responsible for the extreme cases of irrationality. It is only enough to mention the example of the tender for the supply of ambulances, which has dealt with the wholehearted, the citizens, the health workers, but also all the people who are involved in the social offer in whatever structures they serve. This competition began in 2007 and with the money for the commission to have been committed since then, since the government. Five governments have since been unable to complete it and for ten years this competition has been a request for all of us. What was the evolution? The development was that the "Niarchos Foundation" donated forty-three ambulances to the Greek state and one would expect that after this donation it would have ended the matter. It was not so, however, since the Greek State took almost a year to receive the ambulances because of the bureaucratic procedures that existed in the institutional framework of contracts and donations. Ladies and gentlemen, these pathogens come to the face in a direct, simplified and effective way the bill we are debating today. The institutional framework relating to the procurement procedures of public procurement, services and works contracts shall be reformed and simplified. And let me also point out in my turn the main changes that are coming. The first change is that the bureaucratic claws are handled. Those who have served in self-government are well aware of the bureaucratic strangles, which add to the first degree but also the second degree of local selfgovernment. For example, the time of posting the study from two months to fifteen days is reduced, which was a time-lag request from self-government. In small contracts amounting to EUR 1 000 to EUR 2 000-2500, the contract award procedure, which was relatively time-consuming, will not be followed, but the procedure is simplified. Secondly, it is the project monitoring system that is changing and rigorous at the same time in the direction of defending the public interest. To date, the contractor of each project had submitted inaccurate data on a project and had no impact and could additionally, at the same time, raise and demand claims subsequently vis-à-vis the State, followed the iron of the time. From now on, the measurements and elements of a project will be compiled and submitted by the contractor, who will have full responsibility for their accuracy and conformity, and will not be deemed to have been subjected to self-justification and approval. What does that mean? It means that it will also have consequences if it submits inaccurate data, but neither will it have rights to the public. Third pillar, very important within the framework of the bill, is the establishment and supervision of projects and studies by private engineers. There are remarkable scientists around us in local communities, in the regions of the country, private engineers, who will be accredited and registered in a special register with transparent selection criteria, specific deadlines and strict sanctions in the event of violation of their laws and breach of their legal obligations. This is a provision which solves the problems, particularly the small island municipalities - and here I would like to stress, Mr President - which do not have technical competence and technical services. In these municipalities until now, there was no possibility of supervising projects. Fourth point is to address the problem of judicial involvement, which is usually associated with a corresponding involvement and a delay in the implementation of projects, since for the first time the arbitration and an out-of-court mechanism is established in dispute resolution, and finally, the procedures and documents relating to procedures for the award of a public contract of more than EUR 30 000, which will be handled electronically, are simplified. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that the bill is of key importance, especially at the current juncture, because the absorption of the resources from the Recovery Fund and the ESDP must be speeded up rapidly, to open a new page in our country, to implement projects, to create new jobs and to strengthen the country's infrastructure and the development process. In conclusion, I would just like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Government, Mr President, to suspending the protocols on demolition and expulsion for works of all kinds built on the saint, on the beach, on the bank, in the coastal zone without a decision to grant them. I had asked the Minister of Finance, and I am pleased that the government has shown that it is aware of this important problem. It's not a charismatic arrangement. There are problems and diseases in the institutional framework, for which there must be time and the possibility of being resolved and restored, especially when there have been restrictions for a year as a result of pandemic. I am very pleased to mention the dimension that exists between the regulatory framework of the Dodecanese Stock Exchange and Law 2971/2001 on the Agialos and the beach. Secondly, the fact that certain constructions have been included in the demolition protocols that have been incorporated into the law on legalisation of arbitrary structures. Finally, Mr President, I mention the fact that there has not been a direct and clear demarcation of hayalous and beaches, with the result that they are arbitrary constructions that are even 100 metres away from the coastline. Thank you, Mr President. I very much suggest to my fellow Members that we join together and that there should be a consensus in this bill during the vote. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Consola. Mr Baraliakos, the Kateriniotis from New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a common assumption of all the factors involved in public procurement procedures that, despite the codification of the diffuse national legislation and the transposition of the Union directives, Law 4412/2016 presents considerable difficulties due to its chaos. The vote of this bill is therefore at a critical point in time, the ray of hope for exiting the pandemic to be transformed into an explosion of relaunching and developing economic activity. Reforming and simplifying the regulatory framework of public procurement and L.4412 is an integral and necessary tool for achieving this effort at a time when the government has prepared a grand, clear and visionary plan for exploiting the resources of the Recovery Fund to overcome not only the crisis but also the deep reconstruction of our productive model. Modernisation, flexibility and velocity in the award and execution procedures are an irreparable reality. In this context, we have maintained the positively captured innovations introduced by Law 4412 into the national public procurement system and during an exhaustive but fruitful and constructive dialogue with the relevant bodies, we are moving forward in the radical restructuring of the legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, our country's economy no longer has the luxury of following up competitive procedures that are slow-moving when the work itself and its implementation are completed in a much shorter period of time, and the other is normally the case. For us, public works are an extremely serious case that goes hand in hand with the attraction of large investments and the influx of capital. That is why this draft law is the fruit and end of the scientific findings of two legislative committees from people who have spent several years in the field of public procurement. At a time when the state is called upon to play an effective role, fighting for economic activity in order for the steam engine to enter the rails of development, public infrastructure and public works can give the necessary impetus, but also ultimately be in the interests of society which is its final recipient. It is a timeless frugality of the state machine with great public works to be announced and after many years to remain stuck in the scratches of bureaucracy of endless procedural acts and legislative inflation. Nowadays these change, they turn into a weapon of the government's development patronage. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to Article 19 because of my long and constant involvement with the press and, in particular, with the regional community. I have listened with caution to the points made and the comments made by our rapporteur, Mr Christos Boukokouros, on the principle of publicity and transparency of competitive procedures. Public works are delivered and owned by the citizens, while the relevant register helps to protect free and fair competition, to inform the contractor and the technical world more fully, but deprives the most profound substance of publicity, which is the cornerstone of transparency. We all know that in local communities citizens are very interested in the public works that are being announced and currently under way, because their use is immediate and more frequent and, in the end, they feel better when they realize that their money is responding. Under article 379 of Law 4412, the SYRIZA Government has made public and publicity and transparency principles for large public works, since it has abolished the publication of press statements. It was the Government of the New Democracy, which, with L.4764 in December 2020, boasted this anxiety and extended the publications until 31-12-2021. Today, as with great satisfaction we have heard, we are considering and expect to submit a further extension of the publication of declarations in the regional and local press by the end of 2023. I would like to thank all the relevant ministers, who, in light of the criticality of this regulation, enhance transparency and breathe to the publishers and entrepreneurs of the local and regional press. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has not blocked the tensions in the reform work of the New Democracy Government. With bold and determined determination, we progress dynamically on all fronts despite the difficult circumstances. The reform of the institutional framework for public procurement is a treaty for the development vision of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u324	We are also grateful, Mr Colleague, for the time being. From the north to the south and the Arcadia. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill, which is in the House's crisis, appears by the government as a step towards speeding up development by simplifying procedures for public procurement. Although the draft law attempts to revise the existing institutional framework towards simplifying procedures for the award and implementation of public works, at the same time, the centralisation of the activities and actions concerned is also enhanced, so that small and medium-sized enterprises and local entrepreneurship are at risk of being made redundant. In fact, this is done by reductions in the scope of transparency, the protection of public money, the guarantee of the proper implementation of projects and the equivalence between the technical companies. I will focus on a few points that I consider to be important to the current draft law. First of all, it is discussed at a time when the juncture is characterised by the fact that the public sector operates under a derogating system of continuous procurement with direct commissions due to actual or non-precautionary pandemics and that in the next period the notices for new tenders for public works under the Recovery Fund will need to be accelerated. A second point is the lack of maturity of the provisions, including in the draft law, in the number of authorizing provisions for the adoption of heterogeneous legislation in order to solve genuine or non-interpretational problems and speed up procedures, as well as in the partial start of the implementation of the legislation, which extends from its publication in the Official Journal of the Government until 2021. The implementation of the bill will therefore lead to delays and as a result the wider public sector will be even more malfunctioning, precisely at the time that there should be speed and efficiency. Third point. Simplification of the competitive procedures of the system of public procurement, works, services and supplies should be assessed positively, not only on the basis of speed but also on the basis of the criteria for increasing transparency and participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy, but also of local entrepreneurship, which for the Greek region is the donor of any development. The bill includes, for the most part, common provisions for the participation of companies in public tenders, irrespective of their scope, which objectively favours large companies. A project to simplify the system of public procurement and public works should provide for a differentiation of the bureaucratic obligations of contractors depending on the size of the contract. Reinforcement of major and strong actions and the concentration of the actions concerned takes place and burdened with additional bureaucratic obligations and financial obligations and requirements in respect of the contraaor's guarantees, disproportionately burdening small and medium-sized study and contractors and contributing to market-concentration trends in those companies' branches. Fourth point. The bill privatises part of the area of public works management by transferring public works supervision to the private sector, in particular by transferring public works supervision to private individuals who will certify the costs that the public should pay to the project contractor. This concession to private interests involves a serious conflict of interest, since the controller will choose and pay his auditor. In other words, supervision is carried out on behalf of the contractor rather than the public. Contractors, in other words contractors self-assess themselves. Thus, opaque procedures, harmful to the public interest, are being established. Fifthly, the introduction of a lower threshold to the level of discounts, which is, of course, a positive principle, but the measure in question does not strengthen legal certainty and will lead to a number of legal disputes and non-transparency. The provision for increasing the limits for direct awards to EUR 30,000 and for supplies and services to EUR 60,000 for projects is within the margin allowed by the European directive. However, there is a need for a safety net in order to avoid abuse of this measure. The same applies to increasing the threshold for contracts, from EUR 1,000 to EUR 2,500, which will cause problems, to corruption and to the destruction of public resources. Finally, I would like to highlight this, as many colleagues have pointed out. Transparent and harmful to the public interest are the processes introduced by Article 219, the withdrawal of which is not only SYRIZA but also all the environmental organisations in the country. Moreover, strong and very valid objections, fully documented, are also presented by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, as well as by the competent independent authority. This article, in 219, stipulates that until the completion and approval of specific environmental studies and protected areas, there is an opportunity to be determined by a presidential decree of protection in cases - in a vague sense - of mild development projects, without specifying what these mild development projects are. This regulation, in addition to clearly contrary to European environmental legislation, leads to the destruction of NATURA areas, since the fragmentation of those areas, NATURA areas, with the isolation of parts with vague criteria, obviously not in the interest of protecting the environment. It is clear that this fragmentation leads or rather, I would say, to the benefit of the - within the import - 'investors'. This is an anti-environmental direction in which you are used to us, as well as in the same anti-environmental direction, the arrangement for a tender notice is also in place before the relevant environmental studies are completed. In this context, it is demonstrated that the priority of the Government of New Democracy is the degradation and circumvention rather than the protection and management of the NATURA regions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, unfortunately this bill is also a link to a chain of bills that you are facing public and political as a market and a market servant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u326	Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy and we will be closing with Mrs Kafantaris. Mr. Gika, you have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much, Mr President. The draft law under discussion is indeed a systematic and effective ministerial effort to modernise, simplify and reform the regulatory framework for public procurement. Allow me, in the few minutes that the Rules of Procedure give me, to focus on the defence sector, which I have served for many decades. The need for the immediate intensification of the deterrent power of our Armed Forces was immediately understood by this government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who approved the brave increase in Armed Forces' armaments expenditure for the years to come. We are talking about a quadruple of armaments expenditure! Naturally, it follows a long set of necessary equipment, which requires a flexible, coherent and transparent new procurement regulatory framework, which will contribute to optimising and speeding up procedures. In my view, however, defence procurement should not continue. In other words, there had to be a law that unites all laws related to defence procurement and I am referring, of course, to Law 3433/06, Law 3883/10 and Law 3978/11. This would facilitate both the relevant military personnel and stakeholders and stakeholders with the supplies of the Armed Forces, i.e. a law, flexible and transparent. Of course, this draft law also achieves a targeted amendment of the provisions of the existing institutional framework, which I believe will significantly facilitate the defence procurement process. The main aim of these arrangements is to improve the administrative process in all phases of defence equipment contracts, in order to provide more efficient service to the needs of the Armed Forces. Of course, we cannot follow the general framework of Directive 81/2009 of the European Union. In fact, within Law 3978/2011, which incorporated this European directive, certain excessive requirements and actions were envisaged by economic operators, with the result that there was a reduced attraction of economic operators in the competitive procedures. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, I had the honour, ten years ago, to be the Deputy Chief of Defence of the New Democracy, and then in the public speech, we stressed this as a party and stressed this issue. So it took ten years to bring this government back, a New Democracy government, to significantly improve the existing legal framework. Let me say a few words about the articles of the second part of the draft law concerning precisely procurement in the field of defence. We're talking about thirty-seven articles, four chapters. In the first chapter, there are articles on the planning of public procurement. The second chapter deals with matters relating to the award of public contracts, and the third chapter deals with matters relating to the implementation of public procurement. The fourth chapter has final and transitional provisions. We are going to make some important points on the above. The provision for a reassessment of the Armed Forces' Structure by the CSCE every three instead of five years is a very good prediction. This shall be in line with the periodic review of the update of the BIP's Long-term Programme of Defense Equipment. Let us stress here that, on the basis of the Armed Forces Forces Forces' structure, the long-term Defence Equipment Programming, which has a 12-year duration instead of the fifteen foreseen in the previous law, is being drawn up and updated every three years. Long-term programming consists essentially of programmes for the acquisition of new instruments and programmes to support existing instruments with absolute priority and estimated costs. Furthermore, the terms and conditions of participation of economic operators in the tendering procedures for the supply of defence material are simplified, leading to the widening of competition for the benefit of the Armed Forces and the country. It is also identified as a minimum value of a programme to obtain initial approval by the CSCE of EUR 30 million instead of the EUR 50 million that has been in place so far. It is also identified as a minimum value of a defensive programme, in order to introduce the Parliament's Committee on Equipment, the value of 10 million, so that programmes are not considered even below the Minister's jurisdiction. This improves the bureaucratic process. It simplifies the contact procedure of the service organs... [[It doesn't sound because of a bad connection]] ...their representatives. It's also important. Furthermore, the provisions relating to excessive control imposed by the service on economic operators in relation to contracts signed by the contractor with its subcontractors are repealed, as is the extension of control over everything literally. This fact, as we said, prevented a large number of economic operators from participating in the call for expressions of interest and led to barren competitions. There is also a legal provision for the activation of programmes for the first time with the provisions of Article 346 of the Treaty of Lisbon, according to which the rules of the European Union's internal market may be exempted for the protection of the country's essential security interests. Finally, Article 150 provides for the framework agreements and implementing conventions which include the subsequent support of the armed systems. A contract to be complete must include follow all support. We have recently seen in the Rafale Convention that there was the Rafale Convention, the Rafale Convention on their weapons systems, and the Convention on the subsequent support for both these programmes. In conclusion, I believe that the interventions introduced will enhance the effectiveness of the planning, conclusion, implementation and transparency of procurement contracts in the area of defence and will serve the national interest much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Gika. We will close with Mrs. Hara Kafantaris of SYRIZA, who is elected to the 2nd Department of Athens. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I shall begin with my wish and support for our citizens affected in Thessaly from today's earthquake. I hope - and I would like to believe - that the final state of Mr Mitsotakis and, more generally, the state mechanism will respond to the needs with short-term rehabilitation policies for the affected and in the long term not to live through disaster response phenomena that we have experienced in the last six months. The draft 'ENELADOS' of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection should not only remain a paper project. That's the first. Otherwise, I would like to begin today, but I will put as a priority, and following on from what I said before - it relates to the civil protection of our country - two articles, the last two articles, the last two of which we are debating. We are talking about Articles 226 and 227. Article 226 contains arrangements and refers to Law 4662/2020, which the Government of New Democracy voted on the restructuring of civil protection and the establishment of the National Risk Management and Management Mechanism. We did not vote for this bill. However, we have focused on Article 53 and there is also Article 226 of the draft we are debating, which deals with the management of the secret funds for Civil Protection. The article in the Multi-Project relates to projects which will also be carried out for the management of secret funds. As we understand contracts will be signed. We believe, however, that everything must be done with the greatest possible transparency. On the other hand, the recent funds - 595 million - financing from the European Investment Bank, signed at the end of January by Mr Hardalias and Mr Stagiras with a representative of the bank for the strengthening of the crisis management mechanism, namely civil protection - in addition to the COVID -19 which, unfortunately, has focused unilaterally, without meaning that it should not focus, because it is the major issue, the Protection Policy, leaving the others concerned with natural disasters - concern these funds and the financing and logistical infrastructure to ensure the logistical infrastructure in order to cope with natural disasters. Article 227, and the last one, has to do with derogations to documents required for the issue of building permits in public property of the structures of civil protection that the Civil Protection wants to build throughout Greece. Excluded from notarial declarations of parking spaces, as indicated, registration certificates, mortgages, etc. What does that mean? Some questions are being raised and we would like some answers as to whether or not it relates to a photographic device. I now come to the major issue. Of course, the whole multi-project is important. It is a multi-brand plan with which the Ministry of Development takes responsibility from the Ministry of the Environment and, as you can see, I am referring to Article 219. First of all, I will say that investments are not contrary to the environment. This concept continues to be cultivated, that investment and growth are contrary to the environment. This is a false dilemma because the environment is an important resource for development. Let us think about the UN's objectives for sustainable development. Let us also think about what the European Union is saying today on the protection of biodiversity in the context of the New Green Agreement, 'New Green Deal'. And let us not forget that we are going through the decade of protection of biodiversity, as the European Union has declared, and a 'green' recovery is required from the crisis, even the crisis of the coronary that humanity faces, according to what Mr Gutiéres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, has said. You have come out, ladies and gentlemen, under the slogan 'Investment', 'development', 'investment comes'. Of course, some major investment we haven't seen. The Greek always exists and we will always say it, because the announcements others, the course of almost two years with a New Democracy, brings these results. The investor, however, whoever in our country wants to invest in a country with rules, in a country that already had to have forest maps. With your policies you have undominated the policies of the SYRIZA Government, where they had been posted and ratified around 50% of forest maps - something less than 50% - and we start from the beginning. The register has not been completed and now we see that it is being transferred to another ministry, another serious issue. There is also a need for demarcated nature protection areas, with specific environmental studies. I am now referring to the NATURA regions. Members of the Government, with the draft law, and in particular Article 219 on public procurement, may derogate from the design of sub-regions - here we also have new scientific conditions in the science of town planning - protection within protected areas for the service of individual mild development projects in the public interest. There is a question about the term 'poor'. Therefore, instead of there being a comprehensive planning that determines the sustainable development of a region, possible projects will be the ones defining how to protect parts of the region. It appears that you do not, gentlemen of the Government, have a recent condemnation of the EU849 of 17 December 2020 for insufficient protection of the NATURA 2000 areas, but you have not calculated the objectives of the European Green Agreement for the conservation of biodiversity at the heart of the European Union's development strategy. We are asking for the withdrawal of Article 219, as the Commission is calling for 'Nature 2000', which is not SYRIZA - it is well known - and representatives from many ministries. I'll close by saying there's a symbolism today. March 3 is the World Wildlife Day, established in 1978 by the UN. Indeed, according to the UN, this year's celebration is “Forest and biopoliticism, supporting people and the planet”. This year's World Wildlife Day fully aligns with the UN's objectives for sustainable development by 2030. So you come here today and with Article 219 really is as if you do not care about anything, as if you were taking into account anything, either from the European Union and the European Green Agreement, or from the UN objectives for sustainable development, since we are now known to be in the climate crisis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-03-S1-commons.u331	With the consent of the House at 18.45 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, March 4, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, is to continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment "In order to modernise, simplify and reform the regulatory framework of public procurement, more specific procurement arrangements in the fields of defence and security and other provisions on development and infrastructure". Thank you all in and out of the Chamber. Courage to those affected by the entrepreneur. Good night!
