ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to wish all and all Christ Anestis many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the Members of his party tabled on 12 May 2021 a proposal for a law on working conditions for workers in the distribution of ready-to-eat food and drink. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015, and other emergency provisions.’ The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 May 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving a speaker from each Parliamentary Group and a 12-mile circle of speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. With Webex teleconferencing service, a 12-mile circle of speakers is proposed with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, has been speaking for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with a broad consensus of the parties in the House, reflected in the debates held in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draft law, which in its first part incorporates Directive 2019/778 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2013/36 of the European Union as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, measures and supervision measures and capital conservation measures by amending Law 4261/2014, is currently introduced. Fifty-one is the articles which form the first part of the bill. Substantially, L.4261/2014 incorporated into our legislation of the European Union Directive 2013/36 on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and investment firms, supervisory powers and tools for the prudential supervision of institutions by the competent authorities and disclosure requirements for the prudential regulation and supervision of credit institutions are amended. Directive 2013/36 of the European Union had several ambiguities and became the subject of many different interpretations, and was particularly burdensome for several of the credit institutions. The implementation of the revised rules is intended to further shield the banking systems of the Member States against existing or future risks in order to ensure that the real economy is consistently supported and that banking institutions are the lever of development at local, regional, national and Union level. The new provisions strengthen the institutional supervisory framework, firstly, the specific procedure for approval and direct supervisory powers over certain participation companies, secondly, the establishment of an intermediate parent company established in the European Union specifically for groups of third countries with a view to better monitoring of the activities of each group in the European Union by the consolidating supervisor, thirdly, the obligation of branches of third country credit institutions to submit additional data and reports on their activity and cooperation with competent authorities, fourthly, the assessment and control of the eligibility of a proposed acquirer and the correctness of acquisition from a financial point of view on the basis of stable criteria, fifthly, the authorisation of a credit institution established in Greece for the establishment of branches in third countries, sixthly, improvements and clarifications in the policy arrangements for remuneration and implementation of the principle of proportionality for small and less complex institutions, seventhly detailed rules for the imposition of additional capital requirements, eighth, strengthening of competent authorities in third countries, and clarifications in the policy of remuneration and implementation of the principle of prudential governance, and risk-s of government-stracking, and risk-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-stat-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s And of course - the Bank of Greece - also provides for the Securities and Exchange Committee to examine the arrangements, strategies, procedures and mechanisms applied by institutions for their compliance with the Regulation of the European Union 575/2013, supervise and assess the risks by applying specific technical criteria for supervisory review and assessment on the basis of specific supervisory powers, provisions for the jurisdiction of the consolidating supervisor and prudential supervision authority, establishment of a college of supervisors, provision of a transitional provision whereby parent holding companies and parent mixed financial holding companies that are already in existence on 27 June 2019 apply for approval, in accordance with Article 22a’ by 28 June 2021, otherwise measures will be taken. Finally, Article 51 abolishes a number of provisions of Law 4261/2014. The second part of the draft is contained in Articles 52 to 104 and concerns the incorporation of another Directive into the Greek legal order, Directive 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59 of the European Union on the absorption capacity of losses and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 98/26 of the European Parliament by amending Article 2 of the Law. Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015 on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. This Directive is intended by means of targeted amendments to Directive 2014/59 of the European Union to the implementation of the overall loss absorption capacity standard of the TLAC standard developed by reference to global systemically important institutions and the revision of the minimum requirement of own funds and eligible liabilities, MREL, and in this context - by complying with this requirement, which is now more detailed - minimises the impact of the crisis on financial stability and taxpayers. By incorporating the directive and through these targeted legislative amendments that we are voting on in the context of resolution, it is intended to ensure that the entities and institutions established in the Union have sufficient damage-absorbing capacity and recapitalisation, two requirements that are complementary to each other, so that in crisis situations financial stability and public funds are not jeopardised, but that institutions themselves are able to carry out their critical functions immediately after the resolution. It is also clear that promoting harmonised rules at European Union level adds legal certainty, equal conditions of competition within the internal market and makes it easier to restructure cross-border institutions. In this context, resolution authorities shall set the appropriate amount of the minimum requirement of own funds and of eligible liabilities per institution or entity, draw up resolution plans and may prohibit certain distributions when they consider that they do not meet the relevant conditions. In addition, with a view to the smooth and effective application of the resolution rules, cooperation between the competent authorities for the prudential supervision of institutions and the resolution authorities is provided for by law. Finally, the power of resolution authorities to suspend for a limited period certain contractual obligations of institutions and entities is specifically regulated. The other provisions in Part C of the draft law are as follows: Firstly, a more precise illustration of the classification of claims in the specific liquidation of credit institutions. Second, the proper incorporation of the amending Directive 2017/2399 in respect of investment firms and the establishment of a national insolvency framework for them. Third, the inclusion of loan management companies and credits by L.4354/2015 in the group of persons that can be appointed bonds representatives. Fourthly, the abolition of provisions that are now obsolete or unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation under discussion, the Government confirms the development and Union agenda of its policy, as the proposed provisions aim to update the framework within which the banking and financial system operates, to introduce new modern investment tools and thus speed up recovery in the post-COVID era. Of course, we must stress that these directives are implemented by our country more quickly than other Member States. Finally, on the occasion of this bill I wish to wish our country - Minister, I had formulated it as my own position in committee too - to have the institution of banking intermediation before any forced action by the banks against borrowers. Of course, with regard to my own country - and I would like to make a few references to my region - the Dodecanese - following the assurances made to the House both by the governor of the Bank of Greece and by you to apply criteria of compromise with the clearing bank, by the former Dodecanese Bank, depending on the systemic banks and in practice. It is a big issue in general terms of the approach, which is why my proposal by the bank ombudsman. It is a question of how, in the end, each borrower can go and consult in order to proceed from now on with his obligations and be satisfied by the borrowers. I believe that a cleaner framework would help the Greek society and all these people who are today in the need of the banks. Furthermore, I would like to add that the Government submits to the vote significant amendments concerning tax measures due to COVID -19, with a reduction in the rate of advance payment of tax, income of legal persons and entities, a contribution of solidarity and other provisions, the modernisation of the procedure for examining applications for the correction of Article 6a and the submission of contrary views in the process of reallocating, by amending paragraphs 8 and 9 of Article 6a of Law 2308/1995, the renewing of the Benghazi Consulate General in Libya. And of course there is also something about the Dodecanese, the Dodecanese fishermen - after a great deal of cooperation with the relevant, Minister Lebanese and Mrs Arabatzi - and it is the possibility of fishing for the species symbolic shrimp for four months from the adoption of this law, in order to ensure that there is sufficient time to complete the procedures and regulate the fishing of the species with a presidential decree. For this reason, for the great cooperation I have had in this period with the Minister and with the State Secretary, I would like to thank them for their interest and for the wish that the same should take place immediately in the fisheries sector. Finally, a solution must be found for this problem, a long-standing problem for the Greek seas, as has been requested. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the poor economic situation in which another island in my region has arrived, Kalymnos, because of the eruption of the coronary, where entrepreneurs and workers are still in a difficult situation. I believe, Minister, that this island should receive special support with appropriate measures in the fiscal, labour and development sectors. Finally, I would like to express the wish - and in line with what I said before - that the Dodecanese should return to the reduced rates of VAT. I think, Mr Chakaloto, that it is now a one-way road and we should see all sides of Parliament how this measure on the prospects and development of the islands will return to our country. The islands need it, the Dodecanese needs it, our country needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u4	And we thank Mr. Ypsilanti.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u5	I think, Mr President, that you did not have the joy and happiness today to observe me that I was not in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u6	I would say 'thank you for consistency in time', but if the point is happy, it is a contradiction. Please prepare the Step sanitary for SYRIZA's rapporteur - Progressive Alliance Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 years ago the Chief Prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Office, Dimitris Papaggiopoulou, ordered that the SIEMENS case be opened and investigated. Fourteen to fifteen years after the court held that the Black Funds of the "SIEMENS" are applicable, it is a reality. He proceeded with the sentence of twenty-two indictees and considered that there were illegally stable, systematic and time-consuming funding for political power parties, PASOK and New Democracy. And while this decision was published yesterday, it became known yesterday because it was cleaned up, the systemic media ignored it completely, as if nothing had happened. And for you it's like nothing happened. I would expect at least the rapporteur of the New Democracy today at the beginning of his speech to apologise on behalf of Mr Mitsotakis from the Greek people. I will expect the rapporteur of the Change Movement - former PASOK - to apologize to the Greek people. Of course, I'm sure no one will apologize. One will not apologise for the pitfall of the public that has taken place for two decades to the detriment of the citizens. No one will apologise for the political fraud committed against the citizens. You won't apologise to the Greek people because you don't think you're wrong. You think this will pass like this. You think, like all the other scandals, systemic media will hide that too. Perhaps you will say that it is a service and that, like the 'NOVARTIS' scandal and blame Mr. Papagelopoulos. Your arrogance and arrogance are above law, above dignity, and above all they are above respect for the citizens and the political life itself. They should normally be returned, as was written yesterday in some non-systemic media - forms - all state subsidies. There should normally be investigations into a series of felony acts of political people, who, when, because they took this money, how they were used. Have they been used for the needs of specific political parties or for the needs of political parties? Because the consequences should also be the case. So an apology from the Greek people would probably be appropriate, but unfortunately you do not think about it. You continue to play the naives in front of great scandals. Of course, I will speak again about the Laurentis Laurentiadis scandal. I am pleased that the former Minister of Labour is here to inform him that Mr Hatzidakis has dared what he has not dared. Previously, Minister, Mr. Brutsi, we received an extrajudicial court, received the Workers' Association in Kavala Fertilizers for the start of consultations on collective redundancies under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour. Is the Ministry of Labour calling tomorrow at 11:30 under his supervision - unless you rented space to Laurentis Laurentiadis, I don't know, renting the Ministry now and space to businessmen? - to discuss group redundancies. I'm glad you didn't do it. But Mr. Hatzidakis did it. In fact, Ms. Tsrlinakis and Mr. Hatzidakis accept that Mr. Laurentiadis does not exist, he has disappeared from the "Cala Fertilizers". As regards what you said in 2018 here and ye were shouting, about the Petsiti scandal and that we will go to the Special Court, that "we will take SYRIZA to the Special Court for the Petsiti-Laurentiadis scandal", I inform you that Mr Hadjidakis and Mrs.Harinakis do not know Mr. Laurentiadis. They consider that Mr Laurentiadis has nothing to do with 'Kavala Fertilizers', nothing to do with the ELPH and therefore nothing to do with the PPC. The debt to the DEPA is not Mr Laurentiadis - I inform you - he has disappeared. Come to the Ministry tomorrow to tell them that the Kavala Fertilizer factory belongs to Mr. Laurentiadis. Come to the Ministry tomorrow to tell them what you were saying in 2018, that the new adventurous Cypriot companies that were created with a share capital of EUR 24,000, without any previous activity, without any employee, without any asset, currently exploiting the factory, the country's unique compost industry and have hundreds of millions of euros, without paying their debts and the oldest debts of ELPH and Mr Laurentiadis, but also the current ones. Mr Brutsis, Minister, debts are created every day to EFKA, the Greek State, the PPC, PPC and the banks from the new companies, which have been operating for one year and are disappearing. Who's gonna pay for that money? Who will pay this money if not the Greek people? And the debts to the banks are with the Greek State's guarantee. Who's gonna pay for this money? And finally, is there a Petsite scandal or isn't there? Tell us what you said in 2018 is true or did a festivities, a caragiolic, to hurt SYRIZA? Is the Petsite gone missing? Has Laurentiadis disappeared? And I've been calling it for two years now when I'm a MP and you don't dare, no one has said: "What are you talking about, girl? Are you talking?’ Why don't you dare? Why don't you want to mention the name Laurentiadis in this Chamber? What relationship connects you to Laurentiadis? Is he linking you, connecting the party's leadership? Why are you afraid of this man? You brought laws and acquitted him for Proton Bank. You brought law and you're releasing his property. You give him space tomorrow at the Ministry of Labour to fire his employees. What's going on? Be sure that because I'm from Kavala and I'm very well aware of all aspects of the case, everything, up to the slightest detail, this case won't end like that. As long as I am a Member of Parliament, that name will be mentioned in the Greek Parliament and I will expose you and go all the evidence to the prosecutor. And come tomorrow, Mr. Brutsi and Mr. Hatzidakis to the Ministry of Labour and tell the workers how you protect them, how you protect them, and now with the bill you're bringing. First time the Ministry of Labour participates in team redundancies! It is the first time that it gives the employer room to consult the worker! And what employer? Laurentiadis! So we'll see what happens tomorrow and this case will keep going, you can be absolutely sure. With the bill we are debating today, we integrate the changes made to the capital adequacy regulation and other supervisory procedures into credit institutions. We have told you from the outset that we are in favour in principle, because we are also interested in the financial stability of the banks, which is our goal. But, above all, our aim is to have stability, to have liquidity in the Greek banks, so that they can support the real economy. For let us not forget that the structure of the Greek economy is very specific and with great differences from other European countries, that is, it has very small and very many small and medium-sized enterprises. 95% of Greek enterprises are small and are the vertebral column of the economy and if the spine collapses, that is, what keeps you standing, the whole economy collapses. Minister, in the last speech to the committees you said that banks should only support sustainable businesses, namely those companies that give tangible samples - I read it out of the Minutes - of their will and their actions to really want to be part of the great effort that the country is doing. So, in your view, you have spoken of companies that are not viable, regardless of why. We forget, in other words, that we have had ten years of economic crisis, we forget that, within the pandemic, debts have been created not by fault of businesses, but by your own command, we forget that these companies are family decades and that their owners are trying to keep them in their lives and we believe that all those who not because of their own fault, but because of the economic crisis, have come out of programme and should not give examples of willingness to participate in the great effort that the country is making and that is why we must give them the final blow and collapse. But you have said many times that you consider these businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, 'zombies' and their owners 'fucking shits'. Of course, all your policy has so far led us to the same conclusion that you want to liquidate small and medium-sized enterprises in the interests of the great interests. You also said that at the moment there is unique liquidity in the banking system - to agree on it, because if you say so, you obviously have elements - and you have unique liquidity in the households.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u8	At the testimonials.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u9	Good, in the household deposits. How many households? It would be advisable to give us information, namely how many household deposits have been increased, because you spoke only of a sum, you said about 20 billion. How many families do these 20 billion belong to? Because everyone I know doesn't have a thousand euros in the bank. How many families do these 20 billion belong to? I would therefore inform you that you have nothing to do with the real situation in the country. You do not know or deliberately ignore that public debts have increased over last year by 25%, that red loans have increased, that real unemployment has increased, and that even more will be done because there will be an end to the job suspensions, but also because of the bill you will bring to the vote and free redundancies, and after the start of the new Banking Code, there will be tragic images and situations in our country. We'll see people on the road, we'll see people throwing them out of their homes, we'll see small and medium-sized businesses and households go bankrupt. And you're telling me the liquidity has increased? You have nothing to do with it, no picture of reality, unless you live in another reality, unless in your mind you only have the ruling class, the rich class, the big businessmen and the big investors that they owed the banks. There have been occasional scandals for loans from shipowners and big businessmen, which have been erased by banks, while you consider it to be "job" and "fucking" the small, middle class, low income and you will take their homes. We have officially announced SYRIZA's proposals for the economy. We have said and said again that only with a fixed framework without an expiration date that covers all categories of debtors and debtors, which will take into account the needs of each debtor and will adapt to them, which will prevent abuse and reward the consistency, which will enable the citizens to get decapitated once and for all from their debts, with a real second chance, and not with the Banking Code that you have brought and with which they will lose everything, will lose their entire property and their first residence, will enable people to design their lives again. We must legislate in this direction. We, with this aim, are voting for the transposition of the European Union directives. Of course, you should see what you are going to do and what you are going to do with the first residence. Protect the first residence again, so we don't have the images I described before. We are also not all the same! It's not what you're trying to get through to society. SYRIZA did not participate in the "SIEMENS" scandal, nor will it participate in the Laurentiadis scandal, nor did it remove the debts of businessmen from the banks, nor will it participate in this liquidation of the small and medium-sized order you are trying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u10	We too thank Mrs Eleftheriadou and the consistency of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u12	No, Mr. Brutsi, please! You'll be able to answer later when you get the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u13	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u14	Here, you have the floor if you think you want to say something for a minute. Don't start the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u15	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u16	It is good to let the rapporteurs and special speakers conclude. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I will tell you within the framework allowed by the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Eleftheriadou, rapporteur of the SYRIZA, mentioned many times in my name, I believe that I was well placed because I was responsible for the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u18	You said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u19	Mrs Eleftheriadou, you referred to a very critical word about the release of team redundancies. Do you know L.4472 of 2017? Do you know who that law is? Mr President, Mr No 4472/2017 has the signature of Mrs Ahtsoglu and all of SYRIZA. It's the country's first law on labour law that liberated collective redundancies. What else can I tell you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou? Today you resign, renounce New Democracy for the release of group redundancies, when the stamp and signature, with which the redundancies were released in the country for the first time in labour law, are yours and SYRIZA. I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u21	No, Mrs. Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would ask you not to hear any inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u23	You can't, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. You said your opinion and got an answer. Then your parliamentary representative will explain. You cannot, under the Rules of Procedure. And now I invite the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Georgios Arvanitides. Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would expect my dear colleague, SYRIZA's rapporteur, with the same sensitivity as he had to give up the political parties, to abdicate the party itself and ask for an apology, following yesterday's decision condemning the co-pilot and years of attendance, Mr Kammenos, in compensation of EUR 50 000 for the known case - which was created here by careers and mobilized parties and people - the case of Andrikos Papandreou's CDS. Of course, this case had no publicity in the systemic media. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my introduction with a revulsion of the Deputy Minister at the second reading of the bill the other day, which also concerned his fair position that was caused by the absence of the Association of Greek Banks, at the time he was called in the room and did not attend to tell her opinion on issues relating to the adequacy of the Greek banks today. I also pointed to the inadmissible behaviour of the Greek Banks Association in the hearing. I think that it should - and this is my proposal and I call on the Government and Minister to accept it - the House should also send a letter to the Association of Greek Banks, which will call it off for this behaviour, so that it does not open up this bad behaviour before and so that everyone does not choose when a bill is technical, as they described it, and when it is essential and then, at his choice, it will come to the House to enlighten us. I wonder, however, why should Mr Hatzinikolaou, who is also President of Piraeus Bank, come to the debate on the institutional shielding of the banking system, when what they most care about, Mr Secretary, is the physical shield of the system? Once they secured this, the rest are technical details, where they do not have to come to Parliament and enlighten us. And, unfortunately, the right to this derogatory behaviour towards the Greek Parliament has been given to them by the New Democracy Government itself. The government was not just a galantoma, but I would say it was wasted and without a historical precedent to Piraeus Bank. You gave the bank a debt of EUR 2.36 billion, and then you contributed around EUR 345 million to an increase in equity, but, unfortunately, public participation from 61.34% to about 27%. So now that material has been shielded and indirectly recapitulated, institutional and technical issues are a waste of time and fine letters for them. In fact, not only do they not come, but they also send you a written memorandum asking for an extension of the deadlines, because they do not have time to adapt, as if they did not participate in the two legislative committees that you, Mr Secretary, have set up, with our own decisions, which I shall table in the Minutes, which have set a time horizon - it is exactly set out in your decisions - to complete their work on 28 June 2020. In other words, about a year ago, they know that the work of the legislators has been completed. And we are now coming to legislate on the outcome of the committees and are calling for an extension. It's impressive! I shall therefore turn to the Minutes, so that you can get to know them about the date on which they were fixed. And, of course, we have no delay in a few weeks, as you mentioned in committee. [[At this point Mr Georgios Arvanitidis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition to this, Mr. Hadjikolaou did not come to our committee because he might have wanted to avoid answering our questions, such as because the "Greek Stock Exchanges S.A.", which he is also President, sold on March 18, 2021 sixty-sixty-sixty-eight thousand sixty-sixty-five shares worth 500,136 euros when he welcomed the huge public cut and tolerated the bank's small shares. I would remind you that on 1 April the government advertised the increase in Piraeus's share capital, inviting and stating that the bank had to pay the coupon on the coupons, i.e. the convertible bonds on which Piraeus Bank was based in 2015. But you know what else this inconsistency shows? That the institutional interventions which we are discussing in Parliament are of no value. In fact, it is a confession that if something goes very wrong in the banking system at national, European and global level, regardless of the legislation we are discussing today, the state will again be the taxpayer. If, of course, something goes wrong with the citizen, and he's unworthy, then we're taking him home. The taxpayer of chaos, therefore, and the cornerstone Investors, the profits. And they're not only told by the bankers cornerstone Investors. The government tells them. The Greek taxpayer put 9.5 billion in liquid and unsettled at Piraeus Bank, recognises deferred taxation and guarantees through the “HRAKLI”. But the cornerstone Investors are the funds that have become dominant in Piraeus. Thus, the public and the Greek taxpayer hair ends in the dough of increasing the share capital. They are not even allowed to pursue a better cost of obtaining the shares they have received. So don't revolt, Mr. Undersecretary, for their behavior. The courage to ignore the House was given by your government, the Government of New Democracy. In order not to continue, however, this will change tactics and policies. So agree with us to send this letter and, of course, give us answers to the question and application for documents that we have submitted to you. We have asked you for specific information and we expect them with interest to be lit each side of this case. We cannot continue to see the elephant in the room he hears in the name of Piraeus Bank - and, of course, the next one, the Attica Bank - and we simply incorporate European directives lately. What you are going to do exactly at Attica Bank, which has damaged EUR 306 million, needs to be cleared up. The European Union is trying to make the necessary corrections and adjustments to the regulatory framework for the operation and prudential supervision of banking institutions and financial corporations. The revised rules introduced by the two Directives aim to further shield the banking systems of the Member States against existing and new crises and risks. The question, however, is the effective and timely application of these rules both by the Bank of Greece and by the Securities and Market Commission, in order to ensure that the real economy is consistently supported, so that banking institutions perform their role properly and are essential levers of growth. This is a role that will be crucial for the progress of the recovery fund projects, because, as I have said, what has been known so far is the recovery fund will operate in a financial scheme which, in each project, will be able to go ahead with and receive the 50% grant, and the remaining 30% of the funds required will have to be involved from bank borrowing. Who's going to do this with? The government must answer. What are the banks that will make available billions for these loans? Do we have these banks in Greece? Can our banking system? And if he gives it to them, what will remain for the real economy and the small and medium-sized ones to deal with the problems ahead of them? With what evaluation mechanisms will they do in time to ensure that resources are not lost when delays are observed in very simple lending procedures? With what corporate governance system these banks and other financial corporations and S.A. will operate.Huh? What will the government tell them every time to apply as corporate governance rules, as is convenient? And I am referring to the choice made by the government for the administration of ELPE, where the Government repeals the 2003 shareholder agreement on the ELPEs that ensured the public interest and delivers the company to the full control of the private shareholder and, indeed, without any consideration. If the private investor wanted to get an absolute majority of the company, he had the option to buy the missing shares in order to exercise any right he would acquire with that option. At the same time, it abolishes the employees' representatives on the management board of the company. The Change Movement had warned in time that such a blockage of the rights of the public and the workers would not be tolerated. We have denounced these scandalous manipulations and we are asking for this procedure immediately to be stopped in the name of adapting the company to the new legislation, but possibly to the control limits of legality. Because, therefore, at the forthcoming ELPE General Meeting on 20 May, the Government promotes changes to the company's statutes, of course using the TIADE as a donor horse, with the complete assignment of the company's management to the private and the elimination of public rights for the appointment of the administration of ELPE SA. and because these latest developments will lead to a certain course of ELPE with only certain gains from the large private shareholder, we want a clear answer, Minister, from the Government, from now on: What are the reasons behind HICPD for the assignment, without any consideration, of the public's right to determine the majority of the Board of Directors of ELPE SA.Huh? And don't tell me about the necessary changes in the corporate governance of the U.S... to promote gender equality in their administration, as is apparent from L.4706/2020, because we consider this to be a pretext and a window for more overall changes in the way the ELPE Board is set up. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement estimates that the government is taking advantage of the current situation to pass, with the cloak of reforms and legislative adjustments, its own, purely subjective, planning across the country's range of economic activities for the benefit of the few private interests and to the detriment of the interests of the public and the Greek people. That is why we are saying that the provisions of this draft law expire in a spirit of strict supervision of the financial sector, but they are in a huge contradiction with what is currently happening in Greek reality. What can we do to make them the rules if they are applied according to the beam and as it suits them? As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall refer to those which, in the end, and this time with the same tactic, have brought them as they are late. I should like to comment on Amendment No 874, which provides for five announcements by the Prime Minister on 22 April. The Change Movement pointed out that tax interventions in the mid-term financial crisis should be aimed at supporting affected households, linked to new investments, providing incentives for new jobs. It cannot be a priority to reduce the corporate profits tax, especially today for large and not small and medium-sized enterprises. Who, after all, is making profits at this time of the day? Only the large companies that managed to stand up and concern key sectors of the Greek economy. Even in the United States of America, the new fiscal policies promoted by the introduction of a high minimum tax rate for large companies are in the opposite direction. Such discussions are also taking place throughout Europe for the immediate future in order to raise new funds for public investment, strengthen national health systems and all those affected by the crisis. With the debt of the country, Minister, to touch 210% of GDP and the deficits at the height, the government must choose who they are and who they will support. Your Government has a permanent choice to support the great and powerful. Even what is necessary - and the Change Movement has long been proposing, such as the abolition of the solidarity levy - relates only to the period 2021-2022 and the pensioners and civil servants, who will of course be called again, as always, to the government to cover the loss of revenue created by its policies. However, further reductions in income tax on legal persons with no employment and investment clauses are certain to have no added value for the Greek economy and will create gaps in the revenues of the public and insurance funds. Who will, then, cover these gaps? As always, wage earners and pensioners who are taxed at rates higher than dividends and who pay the highest indirect taxes in Europe. Amendment No 871 provides for reasonable provisions, but it is worth noting the following. Article 5 of the amendment makes it easier to transfer real estate from the subsequent transformations and from the break-ups of banking institutions by way of derogation. At the time when the micro-owner of any act relating to his or her real estate has to provide tax information, a certificate of non-existence, an attestation of settlement declarations, topographical statements, certificates of non-debt of a CITP and other documents, the banks’ legal services will simply issue ENVY certificates. And all this to have this attitude from the Association of Greek Banks, as noted in the previous committee meetings. A second issue that needs clarification relates to Article 9 of the amendment combined with Article 3 on the abolition of inactive tax in the explanatory statement on sales of listed shares or foreign exchanges established by Article 21 of the Act. 3697 in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State and provides for an increase in revenue by the abolition. You must explain to us how a abolition, as mentioned, of an inactive provision will result in an increase in revenue. I should like to close by making a brief reference to the amendment on the register which is positive if it is implemented correctly. I do not know if anyone needs a doctorate, ladies and gentlemen, to try to understand what the Ministry is responsible for the Land register, and I say this because until recently it has been the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. In the last remodeling, you have introduced a position of a competent State Secretary at the digital governance office that also tables this amendment, except that, at the end - Mr Skeylakis - he signes not as a Minister of Digital Governance, but signes as a Minister of State. I do not know whether these ways of legislating eventually need doctorates, which, according to Mr Patellis, they also create loose behaviors for the people who acquire them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u25	And we thank Mr Arvanitidis. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Syntakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President, for many years. Mr President, let me refer to the tragic moments which the Palestinian people are experiencing these days. These hours they murder the people of Palestine. Seventy dead, thirty-five wounded. This is a new crime by the State - a murderer of Israel, with the backs of the United States of America, the European Union and the Greek Government. The JRC always stands in solidarity with the heroic people of Palestine. We denounce the Government's attitude that continues this dangerous policy followed by all the governments successively, with the latest of SYRIZA to step up cooperation with Israel in the context of US planning in the region with continuous exercises and training with the Greek Armed Forces. In a shameful announcement issued by the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on developments, which the State Department would be jealous of, not only did it find a word about Israel's murderous airstrikes that have caused these tens of dead Palestinians, but on the contrary it speaks openly and shamefully about Israel's right to self-defense. And SYRIZA is not talking about the role of NATO, the United States, the European Union, as if they were innocent pigeons. But what's he doing? He refers this new crime simply to a policy of some far-right, Netanyahu, with which SYRIZA himself did business when he was in the government a few years ago. So both New Democracy and SYRIZA before, are they pursuing a policy of upgrading relations with the state - murderer for whom? For the interests of the Americans, NATO, the bourgeoisie. Full indifference to the request for immediate recognition of the Palestinian State. So we call on the Government now to stop this dangerous policy of upgrading military cooperation with Israel, which gives an alibi to the crimes of an entire people claiming the fundamental right to the dangerous policy of Israel to annex the Palestinian territories to the West Bank and to continue occupation in the Palestinian territories. The Greek people have always nourished and have long-term feelings of friendship and solidarity with the Palestinian people, so the recognition of this state from our country must immediately proceed by making use of the unanimous decision of the Parliament in 2015 and we call on the people, youth, to take a massive part in the imperialistic rally held in Athens, throughout the country, in order to end these murderous attacks and support provided by the government and the other parties to the international imperialist organisations. They do so within the country, not only do they do so outside, that is to say they support the domestic bourgeoisie for the interests of capital at the expense of the vast majority of our people. On the one hand, the armoring of the banking system, financial capital from shocks in crisis, but also new recapitalisations as a follow-up to the three previous recapitalisations, totalling 44 billion, taken by all governments from sweat, wages, pensions and rights of the peoples of Europe, workers and handsomely gave them to bankers. This draft law sets out to regulate such issues on the pretext of safeguarding deposits. Did the pain catch you to ensure the workers' deposits? And what's your statement? The ones who made wings abroad in legal or illegal ways? The people who do not exist today, the people's savings? Of course not. The aim of the European Union directive we are debating today is not to protect people's households, but to impose uniform rules at European Union level on the competition of banks and, in particular, the smooth functioning of the European Union's single capitalist market. The objective is therefore the interests of bank capital and not the protection of public savings. The main points of the draft law on the operation of various financial sector companies and the recapitalisation of banks provide for a complex set of technical provisions, for which I do not think at least we should enter this discussion process. We highlight the political substance of the main objectives of these provisions and the incorporation of the relevant European directives into Greek legislation. On the one hand, we have support for the banks, new powerful weapons at the employer's house to smash workers in the name of the competitiveness of the economy and the profitability of business groups, and even by invoking good European practices on behalf of the energy colleges, the transport sector, the big business managers and, on the other, a ten-hour work with the gun to the head of the workers with individual contracts, increasing overtime, extending and permanentising telework, abolishing even more branches of the Sunday holidays and abolishing the Labour Inspectorate, hitting further than the strike, persecuting trade union activity. These stubborn provisions of the bill of shame presented yesterday by the Minister of Labour are even worse than the government had leaked over the previous period. The government has literally declared war on the working class. This challenge will not remain unanswered. The first answer is today at 19.00 hours in Propylaea and throughout the country. A historical conquest of the working class for eight hours work, eight hours rest, eight hours free time is abolished. You return us a hundred and a half years back, in 1920, when it was first established in the eighth hour in our country and a hundred thirty - five years back, when the Chicago workers rose up in May 1, 1886, claiming eight - hour work and better working conditions. In the face of this war, therefore, there must be no second thought for the workers. This monstrosity must be overthrown. To abolish all anti-government laws and actually claim modern rights, stable daily working time, seven hours, five days, thirty-five hours. The whole development is taken over by all urban parties - everyone assumes their share of responsibility - the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change-PASOK movement, which has been extinguing the sweater of labour conquests since the early 1990s. The invocation on the part of the Minister for the Directives of the European Union and those signed by the Governments of New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA in previous years does not acquit or alter the deeply anti-competitive nature of the measures taken. Proof of this common strategy for the integration of your parties is the support of this draft law, which concerns the new bailout weapons of banks by digging the workers' pit, which will again be called upon to pay the capitalists' crisis through new recapitalisations, new privileges, new incentives, with a fatal billion. SYRIZA, like the Change Movement, the Mer25, the Greek Solution make the callive opposition and the more they fight, the greater convergence they have. They do not question the class - anti-grassroots direction of capital support measures. Besides, it is no coincidence that SYRIZA asks the people for a lasting moratorium and an acceptance of policy that endangers their own life. Suffice it to see that these parties are voting for a very large part of the government bills. In fact, SYRIZA is trying, on the basis of billions of the Recovery Fund, to cultivate polls, false expectations that the funds paid by the people and going systemically to business groups could, he says, be used for the benefit of the people. There's no bigger lie and more fraud. In short, you all go hand in hand with the Banking Union, which welcomes the draft law, because it even more shields the banking system aimed at strengthening credit institutions to absorb damage, as well as the needs of recapitalisation in times of crisis. That is what the Banking Union says in its memorandum. In the same spirit, the Bank of Greece, the Capital Market Commission, the Financial Stability Fund. They are the ones that serve primarily. It's a bridge to the facilities provided by the urban state to the capital. So the truth is that the JV is saying that banks exist to serve the capitalist economy on behalf of capital, and that is the whole concept of the European banking union and the union of European capital markets, but it is true that capitalist growth requires a strong banking system, without which there is no big investment. That is why both the previous governments and the current one have taken all the measures to bring the banking groups up either with the so-called recapitalisation programmes or with the laws on auctions, the confiscations that all of them together tighten up in conditions of anaemic growth that has passed, but also under conditions such as the ones we live today. Irrespective of whether the chicken has made the egg or vice versa, it is the workers and the people who continue to pay with sacrifices without end strengthening the banks, capitalist growth, as they have paid during the crisis. The JRC has opposed these robbery reliefs, and we repeat that what is important is first of all the micro-depositors, then the public and then all the others. The Piraeus Bank is the most characteristic example of these restructurings. Developments in this period are a typical example of the so-called remodelling of the banking system. Already there is a programme for the closure of dozens of stores all over the country, with everything that that means to serve the world, with hundreds of bankers either on holiday or for blackmailing to sign voluntary departures. In other words, you give it all for all: recapitalisations, an increase in equity by private investors and the Financial Stability Fund, the "HRAKLIS", "GEYRA 1", "GEYRA 2", the bankruptcy code. All this together supports banks with state money, with public money. In this respect, we are putting ourselves in a negative position in the Ministerial Amendment to Article 6 on the GFCF 2 programme for business loans. It serves banks and their liquidity so that they do not have new red loans and at the same time the borrowers are converted into bank hostages. Real breath for debited self-employed and small professionals could give the JRC's proposal, if you accepted it - of course there is no such delusion - with interest cuts, interest rates, high interest rates, but also 30% of the debt they have for those who have an income of up to 12 000 euros. The claims, therefore, that there is a solution that serves both banks and people obviously are funny. The answers are two, it's not one. One says the people and the other should pay the capital. It is at least challenging to talk nowadays about a problem of financing the real economy, when all the measures today and before, with SYRIZA, are aimed primarily at bleeding people's incomes, with unemployment, the ongoing economic-tax incentives to business groups, in the direction of a total of billions of euros from the Recovery Fund for investment in the "green" economy, digital transformation and elsewhere. Only as a mockery and deception can sound in the ears of the thousands of VEE people who work to live, the confrontation between the New Democracy and SYRIZA about who targets the middle class and who restores injustices against human beings, therefore we will vote against those articles at its expense. Just as a challenge! We will therefore vote against those first three articles in the Ministerial Amendment concerning the implementation of measures announced by the Government at the end of April, which were advertised as measures which relieve the middle class and help to relaunch the economy. They are mostly self-employed and micro-enterprises and are mostly temporary. At the same time, in principle, they benefit from large-scale enterprises, for which there is even a new, permanent reduction in taxation. The government, while having enormous responsibilities for the deadlocks it has created with its policy on self-employed and microprofessionals, still refuses to take a number of measures which are included in the JRC's proposal and which could have given a real, substantial relief, such as the abolition of the trade fee, the reintroduction of the duty-free threshold, the generous deletion of debts and the definitive abolition of the tax advance. It is also another proof that the way to re-start is straddled with thick subsidies and new privileges to facilitate investment for business groups and to undo, with new and old burdens on workers, the self-employed, the people in general. So the workers - and to close with that, Mr President - have no other way. They must not be lured from solutions that entangle them in the enemy camp. They have nothing to gain from any management version that carries burdens to them. After all, they don't care about saving the banks, but saving their lives, their lives, their livelihood, their property, their bloodshed to get it, and now they see their loss. The only solution, therefore, is for banks, big capital and their state to pay the burdens of the crisis and, at the same time, for tax burdens to be transferred to capital itself, the only gain from the crisis and growth. On this road, therefore, it calls on the workers of the JRC to fight to implement the immediate relief measures of the locally indebted households. The fight against auctions, as against the forthcoming bill for the abolition of the eighth, for the abolition of collective agreements, for social security and for all the people's problems, must mark the real opponent, and there must be no retreat here. There must be no new sacrifice of social needs to increase their profits. The fight must and can bring fighters to the forefront must be demanded to satisfy the people's basic needs, such as the right to modern and secure residence and the forces of the JRC will enter and organise this struggle every day. We therefore call on the people massly, decisively and organisedly not to let any house in the hands of a banker, fight all the development plans of capital, strengthen their movement, the class movement and strengthen the JRC everywhere. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u27	And we thank Mr. Synergy. I invite the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we would like to express our condolences to the premature death of Theodore. Go down to his family for many years. We thought his party would do it, but it looks like people forget fast. Unfortunately, they don't care! Ladies and gentlemen, we mentioned in the first committee that today's draft law has a hundred articles and two hundred pages on important issues in relation to the functioning of our financial system. We have resolved that it might have been submitted because the tenth assessment is being discussed, and there will be, among other things, a reference to the question of the sustainability of our public debt. Our question, however, is how the sustainability of the debt will be haunted, as it has exceeded both in absolute and in terms of GDP at the levels of 2009, and the PSI forecasts with our GDP continuously decreased from almost 240 billion in the past to 165 billion euros in 2020, of course. By invoking the low interest rates guaranteed by the European Central Bank, in exchange for the faithful implementation of the measures it imposes on us, which are, in fact, memoranda? With the extension of 95 billion for after 2032, in exchange for the delivery of Macedonia's name? With other kinds of promises and exchanges that we may not know or have heard from the government? Is it really taken into account any interest rate rises, probably when the pandemic is over? We all know that the policy of zero interest rates, as well as the ongoing provision of liquidity, is impossible to maintain indefinitely without creating even greater distortions in the economy than the existing ones, which are already huge. We recall here that in 2011, Mr Venizelos of PASOK had predicted that the debt would be viable in 2020, at 120%, because of the PSI. In addition, the IMF wrote in 2011 in the fifth assessment of the first memorandum that with PSI and privatisations - with the sale, i.e. - it would decrease below 120%. However, despite the PSI, despite the memorials, sales, the poorening of Greeks and so on, our net public debt has exceeded 205%. The state has loans of EUR 374 billion on 31 December 2020, according to the DPRK - today more - as we will deposit in the minutes or 227% of GDP and our external debt is close to EUR 500 billion, and we will also deposit in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, our red private debt has exceeded 240 billion from almost negligible before, and the productive fabric of our country was completely destroyed. We are therefore not wondering how sensible it is that we still hear the experts' forecasts, the recommendations for reforms - in introductory terms - and the promises of the governments? If one responded here that Greece 2020 will replace the losses of our economy, firstly, from the memoranda and secondly, from the management of the pandemic, it would obviously think us foolish, since with the most optimistic forecasts it will support the economy by 1.4% GDP annually, of course, according to the Bank of Greece's report. The IMF forecasts an average 1.4% long-term GDP growth, so below our average debt rate, which is now 1.22%, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore impossible to reduce the debt, even if we have primary surpluses, so we reasonably consider it unsustainable, proposing a debate on this while we still have time. Unless, of course, we claim and achieve the deletion or freezing of the pandemic's debts, as Italy has already demanded. Continuing with the contents of the bill, the following are: The first part, with Articles 1 to 51, concerns the incorporation into Greek legislation of European Directive 2019/878, and complements the existing legislative framework of L.4261/2014. In the present case, the division of jurisdiction between the Bank of Greece and the Securities and Market Commission, although the parent companies with financial subsidiaries are subject to the supervision of the Bank of Greece. With regard to its main components, the first is to impose the obligation on branches of credit institutions established in a third country and authorised in Greece to submit an annual report to the Bank of Greece with information on the operation of the branch. In addition, the supervisory powers of the Bank of Greece or the Securities and Market Commission are described in the examination and assessment of interest rate risk. The level of capital is also determined and cases where the Bank of Greece or the Securities and Market Commission imposes an additional own funds requirement on credit institutions, which is extremely important. Finally, other operational issues such as remuneration policy, corporate governance framework, professional secrecy and information exchange are mentioned. Part Two now concerns the incorporation into Greek legislation of European Directive 2019/879 on the capacity to absorb losses of recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms. As regards the most important parts of the banking system, stressing that the Greek banking system has nothing to do with the European since it is in a more trivial position, at least as regards red loans, the conditions for the resolution of financial institutions and holding companies are laid down, the way in which the resolution plan is drawn up and the resolution authority, which is again the Bank of Greece, in accordance with Article 2 of L.4335/2015. Finally, very importantly, it extends the possibility for the resolution authority to suspend payment of liabilities, including eligible deposits in which the so-called bail-in is concerned, i.e. rescue banks from shareholders, bondholders and depositors. In this case, the amount of deposits that are accessible on a daily basis may be limited, which means control of commitments and funds, such as in 2015, for any avoidance of bank runs. Finally, Part Three consists of a number of provisions such as the order of classification of individual claims in the special liquidation of credit institutions and investment firms. In addition, loan and credit management companies are also able to take on the role of the accountant representative, which is reasonable in terms of amendments to the HERAKLIS programme. In the second committee we have now said that given the risk that taxpayers will be called again, it is not possible to grant supervision and resolution to the Bank of Greece, about 91% of whose shares we know it belongs to foreigners and only 9% of which is publicly owned, let alone when it has not been so many times before to protect banks as it should have been, especially in the period of 2015. We stressed that we, because we do not want to be accomplices to what is happening, are not going to vote in favour of the bill, unless insurance controls were adopted for bail - in and for capital controls, for the security of deposits and commitments, that is to say, as well as for the payment of deferral tax. In addition, the non-placement of money in the Financial Stability Fund for possible recapitalisations, but directly to banks, so that it has control over the State. As also the ownership of the State in the auction houses and the ‘HRAKLIS’ programme, public observers in the resolution committees, etc. We must note here that, from March 2020 to March 2021, the European Central Bank has bought Greek bonds of EUR 22 billion to keep interest rates low, when Greece borrowed EUR 15.5 billion, while Greece is entitled to EUR 37 billion in total from the European Central Bank because of the pandemic. So he still deserves some more than 15 billion. So it is nonsense about market confidence, and only fools rejoice when they borrow for consumer and not for investment purposes. In continuing, both here and in the third committee, we have asked detailed questions about the most important articles, but we do not have any responses at all. How, then, can we vote for the bill? Especially with regard to the hearing of the institutions, we were struck by the absence of the Banks Union, which the State Secretary rightly criticised with very tough words. This absence has substantiated the indifference of the bankers for the debates in the House, after they have learned to live by releasing the Greeks again and again, with the support of the governments concerned, which, moreover, do not respect and count at all. However, the placement of the head of the CFS was interesting, according to which the organisation was not profitable. In this respect, we wondered how it is possible for continued production of damage to be something that one is proud of, in the sense that the damage caused to the country by the CFSF is already more than 40 billion euros in its recent statements of head, while Greek citizens pay them. It has only recently registered EUR 2.6 billion in losses from Piraeus Bank, according to an article of the «ECONOMIST» that we submitted to the Practical Committee. So if we were him, we'd be really ashamed, and we wouldn't be proud. Unfortunately, however, the Greeks do not know that they paid for these 2.6 billion themselves, because otherwise we are sure they would not be sitting alone in their homes. As far as the immunity of our banking system is concerned, which is constantly invoked by the State Secretary, but also by the government in general, we are frankly tired of listening, but above all of paying, while at the same time seeing that the banks remain intact, while they are getting more and more money from the Greeks. All Greece has achieved was to rescue the German and French banks with the PSI by destroying ours, which has now been confirmed by both Düsselblum and President Obama. The PSI did not reduce its public debt by just 51.3 billion, as we will testify in the Minutes, but in exchange for the mortgage of everything, increasing it after more than 40 billion because of the banks. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In relation to the reduction of red loans, which the government is taking on, they do not concern the Greeks at all, since their debts continue to increase. They only benefit the banks that sell them out and charge us their losses, where we sincerely see no reason to save them all the time, with the final result of taking our homes away, except that they refuse to lend households and small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, what also impressed us is the SYRIZA's study to vote for the bill, which means that he has not yet understood his responsibilities as a Qualified Opposition. Really, since he usually agrees with the government, why did he send back the vastly larger part of the 25 billion that the European Union had given us in 2015 with the third memorandum on the recapitalisation of banks? After all, he voted for it by betraying the referendum and his own ideology. Apart from shutting down the banks by depleting their stock exchange value. Incidentally, we stressed that no committee of inquiry has been launched on how banking control was lost in 2015 - I would remind you that we called for it as a Greek Solution and we have repeated it many times - and not even the minutes of the European Central Bank on the closure of ELA have been given. In conclusion, we shall only refer to Article 67, which relates reasonably to the beast market in repos, which holds the economies hostage now, since they cannot be reduced. In the 2020 budget in Greece it was 1.22 trillion euros from zero in 2013, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This report alone can create huge demands and destroy in general, destroy in general all possible resolution. We have not yet understood why no government has so far solved the problem of banks and unfair auctions together with the method proposed by us since the beginning, namely the one which the United States has successfully adopted in 1933. We've said it a dozen times. Do they all care about the citizens? Do they only serve the banks? Don't they have any feelings of shame? Are they not interested in the six hundred thousand Greeks who left the country by taking with them a GDP of 32.5 billion and escalating the demographic index which is the number one problem in our country? Do they not understand how they lead Greece to the change of its ownership status, with the majority of the Greeks remaining cheap debt slaves without the property of the new owners of their country? Only do the prefecture of power care about them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. After the Step is settled, the reason will be for the special speaker from the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, George Logiadis, and then, after we finish with the list of rapporteurs and special speakers, the floor will be taken by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos. Here, Mr. Logiadis, you have the floor for years and years for your celebration. I don't know if anyone else is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I wish everyone many years. Jesus Christ Resurrection! You will allow me to begin today with a reference to tourism and the economy. In view of this year's tourist season and the opening of the economy, we stress that debts created during the pandemic in banks, taxes, insurance funds must be deleted, because we fear that after the opening of the economy we will see too many bundles. And remember that in Israel, an organized state, 40% of businesses after the pandemic did not open. Immediately, vaccinations and collective agreements should be applied and respected by all. Otherwise, we have unfair competition, the destruction of workers' businesses and the national economy. If workers are not happy, quality tourism does not exist. The checks issued by the aid recipients are no longer inhibited because this creates an even greater infarction in the liquidity and viability of the economy. The companies that opened up and operated last year and will be operating this year in the midst of a pandemic risk and were damaged. They should be more relied upon than those who have remained closed, who have not risked, who have not risked. To support also the tourist offices which are the link between all tourist services and the link between the internal and external. They are essentially very small and especially family enterprises with an average of six employees. They're twenty-two thousand workers in three thousand six hundred businesses. Germany supports TUI, which is a colossal. We, as Greece, must support our own tourism offices, as do all the Member States of the European Union. Finally, as regards hotels, which are capital intensive enterprises, because investment in these fixed installations each year is declining, this write-down must be supported, because every eight to ten years there is a need for radical renovations, upgrades and modernisation to be competitive. And now we are going to the current draft law of the Ministry of Finance, a draft law which is ten series, Mr President, a proposal. It says incorporation of two directives, but it does not say the obvious, where the incorporation is. Well, it's incorporating two Directives, 2019/878 and 2019/879, and other provisions. That's what he says. It entered the consultation on 18 February to 4 March 2021, but it did not take place because, as he writes in - I read just - 'it is not allowed to comment on each article'. So if we are not allowed to comment, why did the citizen enter the consultation? Since the draft law refers to supervisory measures and powers, capital conservation measures and recapitalisations of credit institutions and investment firms, go back to April 2015, where then the President of the European Central Bank bypassed the legal services of the European Central Bank by asking for a legal opinion from a private law firm on whether the European Central Bank's plan to terminate the liquidity supply and thus close the Greek banks, was lawful with European law. He appealed to a private legal office and not to its own legal services. On 16 October 2017, Mr Draghi replied that he refuses to make that legal opinion public invoking his obligation to protect the confidentiality of that private legal office. This case is still under a conference and the judgment of the European Courts is pending. But if she was lawful, why doesn't she give her? It's a surprise. Minister, I would like to ask you again today: Do you agree that European citizens and we are also entitled to know whether the private legal office in which Mr Draghi was sent to them by money on behalf of the European Central Bank and the troika has given an opinion that the disruption of liquidity to a banking system in a Member State - on the basis of closed doors is against European law? Do you also realize that the publication of this opinion strengthens the position of your Government in view of the pressures that will soon be found on the fifth memorandum? And I will refer you to the "NAYTTERRIC" of April 2021, very recently, which says: "Shoeball Kabanaki" and what Shoeble said: "Every country must work alone and try to maintain budgetary discipline. But one thing is clear: If the members of the confederacy are left alone, such as the Eurozone, they are easily enticed in debts against the community. The balanced budgets are almost irresponsible in the high debt countries without external pressure," he said. The Statute of the European Central Bank shows that its main objectives are to safeguard the security and soundness of the European banking system, strengthen financial integration and stability, ensure consistent supervision. The European Central Bank in cooperation with the national supervisory authorities is responsible for ensuring that European banking supervision is effective and consistent. And we ask ourselves: All the previous years before 2015, and the European Central Bank and our Bank of Greece, what have they done? Because they were either incapable and, therefore, dangerous or both knew and let things evolve, obviously for the interests of some very few and very large. I really want to know this as European citizens and as members of the European Union. With regard to the incorporation of these two directives, they are highly technical. You referred to the banking integration of Europe by saying that it is a very serious case to leave it to bankers alone. But unfortunately, that's where she's staying. If it were a matter of the European citizen, a European political union must have become a proper union. So let's go backwards, build the banking system first and then the political union. This raises all these issues that we are dealing with today. The banks are the cause of the problem in this case, because there is political will, there is no political unification of Europe. That is why we are struggling at the same time on two fronts, pan-Europeanly with Diem25 and in Greece with Mera25. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, the objective should normally be the achievement of the Eurobond, but Germany's refusal in particular has again led to a compromise with France and created this Recovery Fund. The Eurobond was the opportunity to create within the pandemic and to share this cost pan-Europeanly in all the Member States and not in each individual state. For the further banking union in Europe, while it has been decided since 2012 at the level of Heads of State, you said, Minister, that it is unduly delaying its completion. Not only is it slowing down, but I will stress that they do not want further union, because in this way they want economic, oil, banking, with pandemic now, they buy bankrupt banks, all the public property of the Greek people, which has been mortgaged on creditors for ninety years, airports, ports, infrastructure, everything. From 2008 to 2015, taxpayers supported banks with EUR 106 billion, more than half national income. By capturing SYRIZA in the summer of 2015 foreign predators funds, in good cooperation with locals, they also acquired the benevolent sum of 8.3 billion of the bank, even making debts of a new state grant. Recently, the State has been forced to buy Piraeus shares to 6 euros one when it was sold less than EUR 1. Regarding the capital increase of Piraeus Bank, foreign investors said: "We were composters in a planned process decided who will get what". With the project "HRAKLIS" foreign moneys buy red loans at 5% of their value, and the Greek borrower is not allowed to make an offer, destroying borrowers and those who have no red loans, because it is devalued, degraded, and the value of real estate is reduced. Finally, when the funds sell these properties, with profits, of course, the money that makes them go abroad, which is further bleeding our economy. I will mention today in my speech what I said to the committee last time, the words of the late Manos Hatzidakis: 'When you get used to the monster, you start to look like him'. The form of the monster is appalling. But when the monster's face stops scaring us, then we have to be afraid, because that means we're starting to look like him. The citizen being the pretext of the political decisions of his representatives and the political inactivity and tolerance to dominate because of the generalised frustration, the beast today wins day after day. We as prisoners in spiritual dungeon accept deception as truth, act as fighters toward good and good. Our salvation requires a radical change in patterns of behaviour, a redefinition of principles and morals with more anthropocentric character and less materialistic. And because of the obvious fact, Mr. Undersecretary, you have answered me and you do not like that, I would like to refer to something else today, our top sketch artist, Arkas. They are two Members, sitting on the seats of the House and asking each other with questions: 'As long as we are Members, we shall say yes to everything'. And the other answer says: 'As far as we say yes to everything, we will be MPs.' We, Mera25, don't say yes to everything. Mr Ypsilante, we fully agree with you that VAT must be reduced and all these taxes, but this cannot be done as long as we are in the memoranda and as long as we say yes to everything. SYRIZA's rapporteur said you should apologise for both you and the Change Movement from the Greek people. But to recall the words of the Minister of Development recently on 8 April, which says - and I am reading them - 'After we really continue a Memorandum of Obligation of the SYRIZA Government, what now to fight for the things that have been solved by history'. And because you will again mention and say again about Yiannis Varoufakis and you are constantly referring to it, we challenge you to do what the Prime Minister had announced in the election, that he will bring the issue of the bankruptcy of 2015 to a committee of inquiry in the House. Bring it in. Open the file and see what happened. Otherwise, you're talking for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u33	You have no say, Mr Highlands, you are not entitled. The reason now has...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u34	I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure say anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u35	You're not entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure say other things. When the name of a Member is mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u37	No, I didn't see any personal matter. It's my thing. Just telling you your name says anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, the reference to my name and to apologise for something requires that I have a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, just a minute to understand. I'm a little apologise. Mr Ypsilante, stand up for the first time, not answer, but tell me what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u40	Let me give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u41	Stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u42	I know, and I'm standing and sitting, but I'm awake, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u43	We are observing what is envisaged here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u44	And standing and seated. I monitor and I know the Rules of Procedure very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u45	I'm not saying you don't know him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u46	...and that's why I asked in a minute when a colleague in Parliament refers personally to someone's name and is placed and asking for an answer, as in this case about the reduced rates for the islands...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u47	No, no. Read, please - you are also a law-maker - Rule 68 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: Reference to name is not a personal person. Personnel recommends some hybrid...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u48	Therefore, I should like to answer that the Chief of the colleague, Mr Varoufakis, was the one with the SYRIZA Government in 2015 who has allocated the reduced VAT rates and, from now on, the islands are suffering. That is what I wanted to say to both Parliament and the entire Greek people. And let's not shake the finger today. The story is not deleted. The story is not deleted with the crowns. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u49	In any case, I have to clarify a few things. It's not personal, it's anything political. The only one who has the right to speak is the parliamentary representative. And now, Mr President, Mr Velopoulou, you have the floor, since I apologise for this interruption, but I do not think that I am wrong to anyone. I'm not wrong, but I want to be fair in all directions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u50	I wish all the Presidents were just like you, Mr President. And I mean that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u51	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u52	You, Mr. Avdela, are from our own presidents. The President is from the other Presidents, from the other side! I would like to start by talking a little bit about Israel today. First of all, let us all hope that the rationale will prevail and that the military conflict on either side is stopped. But at some point we need to learn a story here in the House. At some point we need to understand that we need to take off our ideological strangles, which we have for decades and understand the historical event. We have a country called Israel. Does anyone know that the Israelis are forbidden to go to Mount Athos their own sanctuary, the Mount of the Temple, never go forbidden because others have made the mosques? Do people know them in here? In Mount Athos, therefore, the particular thing that exists in the conflict became the same thing as this. In the sixth and eighth centuries the Arab Muslims set up mosques on the Israeli temple. Since then, his Israeli people have been forbidden to go to worship. Because I say this, ladies and gentlemen, above all on the left. The Muslims in the Parthenon made their mosque and left the map in 1824, the Greeks demolished it with the Revolution. Imagine there was a mosque today and we couldn't go to the Parthenon today. That's all you have to see. And also, in order to get a little serious in here, our ideals are good, but to see who's indulging the Palestinian Muslims against Israel. I'll tell you now: the enemy, the fascist, Erdogan. He's provoking and doing what's going on. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] If some in here, based on their false idealism and their inspiring against Israel, want to do more for some Muslims who are with Erdogan, they are in the wrong camp. Clear things. To be reasonable, but to be fair. Also, I never understood, are the Israeli children not children? Only the Palestinian children are killed and weeped for the Palestinian children? Are there no children killed, innocent souls, teenagers on the other side? Is that what the Greek Solution says? Peace between the sides. Let us not take anyone's place, but historically Israel is right about this particular story. It's just things. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the most essentials. Minister, I am very happy because the investments have finally begun to come. Finally, after two whole years, the New Democracy decided to do business with fodder. What do I mean? I sincerely wish you - because you are following the SYRIZA line and I think of the good colleagues in the New Democracy - 'vion hassparton'. What do we call a 'host-blooded'? I wish you a 'vion hassparton'. Why am I saying that? Because you are basically in agreement with the biggest issues in the country. We have come to the point of listening to a minister praise Mr Karanika, who had bathed him for months and called him a messenger, a basilica and a whole lot of things. So did the Prime Minister of the country, who was then opposition, saying other things, criticised history with multinational corporations and chassis. And today you have solved all the problems of Greece and you want to make them all be with the basil. Listen to us get serious. It is true - and I shall say this directly - that the behaviour of certain Members is disgusting. It is disgusting to behave in specific Ministers, who think that with a 'I made a mistake, I'm sorry', it's all over. After the Prime Minister and the Minister made a mistake, to resign the Minister of Hashish Trade and Hassopio. The story's over. Retire any Minister now! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We've learned the apology and the world is broken. "I made a mistake, Mr. Karanikas was right," he says. Are we serious? Well, for Mr. Georgiadis, I understand that. It changes every week or every five months or every five hours and perspective. That's well known. He's changing his mind from morning to night. He's been emptyed by the ministers at all times. But the rest of the New Democracy Members do not see that? These good colleagues, the housewives, the honourable Members who have a decent policy and a national do not see that? Don't they see that this afternoon the Greek Prime Minister will meet the President of your false Macedonia? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do you recognize him and invite him to the Maximos Mansion? Can't you see these New Democracy MPs? Don't you see them? Does the state keep up with negatives? Does the state have the negative all the time? Yesterday the Ministry of Culture committed a crime for which Mrs Mendoni should resign today. Do you know what the Ministry of Culture did, Mr. Comrade? You all have a sensitivity to national issues and a historical memory. So what did the Minister for Culture do? Ministry of Culture, I will present it in the Minutes of May 10, 2021: "To the Macedonian Movement Promotion of the Parent Language". Letter from the Ministry of Culture: "In continuation of the responsible declaration for your registration in the Ministry of Culture's Register of Cultural Entities and following the verification of the identity of your institution under the name Macedonian Movement Promotion of Parent Language and VAT, we inform you that your registration in the Ministry of Culture and Sport's Register of Cultural Entities has been completed. The CEO, the lead, the signature. In addition, if you wish to receive newsletters, European programmes, grants, let us know.’ Here's what your party did, Mr. Comrade. The Ministry of Culture sent an official letter to the Macedonian Movement Promoting the Parent Language. It's a group of separatists, along with a false priest there, Pope Tsaknia. You don't know, you don't have to. For the Ministry of Culture, however, this is a crime. Crime! The Minister had to resign today. Instead, he made a statement, false again, saying 'we revoked it'. I mean, I'm murdering you and I'm withdrawing. It can't be done! The mistake was made. If the Greek Solution hadn't been yelling since yesterday, the MPs and I personally would not have gotten it. Today the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" headline page. I'm sad! I'm really sad, no matter how good I am. I'm not saying that the Minister and the Ministry did it on purpose. For God's sake! Get away from me! But it's incompetent. And at some point in our country the inability must be punished. At some point the inability to deal with national issues must be punished. But when you bring laws that seem to be hitting history, Orthodoxy, family. You, as New Democracy, brought the citizenship law, you brought, as New Democracy, a gender change to sixteen, a child who cannot get a driving licence and cannot in any case get a job unless it is eighteen years old. So there comes a law where you want to enforce the word 'parent 1' and 'parent 2'. Mr. former Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsi, who is also friends of the old, will be called the 'parent 1' or 'parent 2'. I should know. I know the parent, Giannis Vroutsi, I don't know the "parent 1" or "parent 2". But that's the house for what's coming for adoption in homosexual couples. These are unacceptable things for a conservative party, for a party of your own mayor, Constantine Karamanlis. They'll tremble his bones with what's happening! Where are you going? We said to be liberal! Become! It's coming now! Where are you going? You're going over SYRIZA. Whether I see SYRIZA or I see you, it's the same. Looks like you're gonna run. It's a given, and that's more annoying. What does New Democracy have to do with SYRIZA? He really doesn't have one! None! How do you agree to these things? Tell me how you agree with these people? Are we all right? Conservative? You've lost your ideological compass. There's no ideology. The voter of the New Democracy today wonders: "I voted for New Democracy. I did not vote either PASOK or SYRIZA." You've gathered all the pasochians in your party. Mrs. Mendoni, we know it's PASOK and a little more left. Can't you see these MPs? Get the Prime Minister and talk to him! And we're actually going. Zafe this afternoon at Maximos Mansion? Zafe? The fake - Macedon are we going to go before? And you're tolerated by the Macedonian MPs? It says here, he became a Group of Friends of the Hellenic Parliament and of Northern Macedonia and they are inside Members of the New Democracy! Do you understand? Do you hear what you're doing? Is there North Macedonia? Is there a state of North Macedonia? What are you doing? There are no, ladies and gentlemen. For the Greeks, there is no Northern Macedonia! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] There is only one Macedonia and there is no one else! You want Albanians? 40 percent of the Slavs what is it? Macedons? Why are Albanian human rights being violated? In Skopje 40% are Albanians. It is a raw violation of the human rights of the Albanian minority, which is 40%. And you baptize them Macedonians. Albanians are people. Let's go to the Sweet Waters, too. I will go there because the Minister, Mr Tsiaras, was here a year ago just a few months ago when I said to him: 'Change the legislative framework'. These bastards don't care at all at this stage if they're Greek or foreign. They're bastards. Whoever kills nineteen-year-old little girl, mother, 11-month-old baby for me is a son of a bitch. So I say: Change the legislative framework. If they're arrested now, there's still the beneficial provisions. We'll call it raw. Don't see the sun again! Life means life! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Change the legislative framework! Even what Mr. Tsiaras says speaks of 20 years of imprisonment. What's 20 years? He's 30 years old. Fifty-five will go back to doing the same thing again. He won't get out of there again. It's over! Social work will work in prison. In my personal view - it is personal and I have said it - an animal who takes life, a man who is raped by a child, the sentence he deserves is one - not even life and is the personal view of Velopoulos - and it is the death penalty! That is what I think because animals are worth. Clear things! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now you will tell me about Europe and the death penalty. You know, Europe is a sound card interpretation. Let us say to Poland and Hungary, whatever Europe has done to it, they keep their own policy. Why do you have to invoke European Union and European law every time? If there were European law there would be no Turks in the occupied Cyprus. They'd have left! Where do you say that? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the next one. Theory of forensics. The guilty of a crime, my dear Minister, meets three conditions: he had motive, he had the means and he had the opportunity. The motive is theft, for what happened in the Sweet Waters. A culture of sub-culturalism and infringibility from these beasts. I will now tell you what the measures are: SYRIZA's obsolete laws and the impunity of New Democracy. Those were their means! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They're not afraid. The opportunity was given by the two above. That's how the crime happened. Of course, I will say this directly - and I insist on that, because some have not understood - and I told Mr Papadakis, this morning: The Greek Solution will put forward a proposal for a law that is ready for the possession of the weapon, to have the Greeks at his home. It's over and over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Why am I saying that? Because we are a state that is not neighbourly with Liechtenstein, but with Turkey. So we will make militia and nationalism, have their weapons home, and let the Greeks dare after each beast invade the Greeks' house and rape his wife, kill his wife and threaten his child. National Guard and militia! Let me also say something to SYRIZA: If we had a militia in Matti - remember one thing - nothing would have happened to the evil that happened to the dead. Because the guard in a time of peace knows exits, outlets, the crowd will lead, the mass. It's not just for the war. That means militia. I didn't understand why would America have it? Why would Switzerland have it? In Switzerland, the citizen has the gun in his chest. I know it from my personal friendship that I have with Swiss people. They're civilians. Weapons. In the end, I'll tell you differently. We must become the new Israel. What Israel does with civilians - armed, we must do too. Because around - around we have enemies, unfortunately. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do you want examples? Rama speaks of “Great Albania”. The Skopje are talking about "Great Macedonia". Bulgarians are talking about 'Great Bulgaria'. Turks talk about "Great Turkey", about Sultanos and so on. Only Greeks speak of "Small Greece". No, gentlemen, Greece has the right to dream, to great decent Greece, to armor and to prevention. And that's what the Greek solution will do. We've been asking for four years. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's go to the rest, because I want to analyse them. How's that gonna happen? A lot of people tell me about the police. We have a police, which is looted, ladies and gentlemen. I waited, honestly, for New Democracy to enable the police to do their job. Here, people don't have heavy and unhealthy. The policeman doesn't have heavy and unhealthy life at all times from crime and goes to the streets. You will tell me here, the F-16 pilots and the pilots of our helicopters - and I want the New Democracy MPs to see this - are getting a 200 euro, 250 euros, and they are taxing it on top. That's who you are! You're taxing pilots who are a hundred, two hundred, three hundred. These are incredible things for a serious country. Release of entrepreneurial rules: Listen to what's going on. The policeman meets one with a gun. If the cop shoots, he's under arrest. To shoot the policeman, he has to be shot, shot by the criminal, and if the bullet takes him, take him down, if he doesn't take the bullet, he can shoot. This is the Greek police. The entrepreneurial rules must be released for the use of service weapons, perfection and dash. Taser equipment. Have police tessiers, what they know, who doesn't kill a man, doesn't take life, but stops every criminal. To wear bulletproof vest really, to have cameras in uniform, all that's what the Greek Solution always says. And -- I'm going to say now -- take back -- we've got the perpetrators here, of all the fake businessmen, the fakes, the policemen, and give them to the civilian. No more VIPs for businessmen with millions and billions in banks. The shipowners have four policemen! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The shipowner must give a private company the money. If he wants cops, he'll pay. That's how the system works. Even I've been talking here, I've had private cops for many years. Why? Because I don't want to burden the Greek citizen. Yes, my state provides some policemen, but I also put my own private police officers. Have the police shipowner and the man who lives in Patisia, the little girl who lives in the Sweet Waters, who lives in a village shaking his pamphlet to get out? No, the policeman will be the citizen's guard, he'll be the defender of the legal order. It's over and out. And I say it to you. Other suggestions we made. I feel really embarrassed. I sent a letter to the President of Parliament on the Myrtus case. We have compensated everyone who has suffered - and we have done well - as a state: Physsa, Gregopoulou. We did well as a state. Myrtus' mother, you guys. This little girl was sixteen years disabled. It's a crippled child. Maybe he was our kid. And no one helped her, neither did SYRIZA nor anybody from here. No one thought this mother was fighting night for her disabled child. I had to write to the President of Parliament. I know it's sensual. I want all parties to help this little girl, who needs real, to survive mother and child, find a way to compensate and find a job in the mother, a good job. The Greeks can't be thrown into the trash. They couldn't have killed the man a few years ago for a camera and not get compensation. They didn't take anything. Why? The boy at Philippi's got nothing. Why? When Greeks are killed, isn't it none of your business? Only when they're murdered by beasts but Hassan and Ibrahim and Fatié are you interested in or are they ideoscopy left? The rest of the Greeks? It's not right, it's not left, but it's Greek. Shouldn't it be compensated? That is why, please, the President of Parliament, we can all help this little girl who hit this man-made monster, Pakistani. Unfortunately, Greek justice has exhausted every legal structure to prevent it from being compensated. I will again present my letter to the Minutes of this House to be here. I would also like to say another thing: ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost a century since the Greek Pontius were slaughtered. The day of the Pontius genocide is coming. We will submit to the Minutes the requests of the Pontians, who are asking for an introduction of the story of the Pontian Hellenism of two and a half thousand years in schools. Here's what foreign policy means. We need to understand what foreign policy means. We've got a problem. You don't have to make war, but you're putting each other's problem on his side. If Greece had recognized the genocide of the Pontians and made planetary, globally a very nice view of the issue, Turkey would have on its back a subject called the Pontian genocide and the Pontian isolate today. Because there are four hundred, five hundred thousand Pontian balancings who speak the pontian in Pontto. We didn't do any of this. I shall therefore submit to the Minutes the motions for resolutions. And I want you to understand one thing at some point, because I'm half Pontius. The Greek Parliament must make a cross-party committee, one of the members of each party, so that we can take the parties to show the Pontian genocide. They are our grandparents, they are our grandparents, they are our friends, they are our brothers, they are the blood that flows even today and unfortunately - I will say it once more - they have never been vindicated. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's what we need to see. I'm leaving the rest. For "SIEMENS" you have learned it, but no channels have passed it. The Greek channels are dealing with others. What about "SIEMENS"? The Greek court ruled: PASOK took them. Tsukatos was acquitted, because Tsukatos - he says - took them to the party, to the Prime Minister, to Mr. Simitis. But the Simitis is not punished. Because the Simitis is an institution. The Simitis, unfortunately, today, supports a New Democracy. The Simitis supports the neoliberal, anti-popular - I will not say anti-national - and foreign policy of the New Democracy. This is the accident for the country. When the Simitis supports you, you must be shaking. Something's wrong. It says the court has taken millions of euros from the SIEMENS. We didn't get any money back and no one was in jail. We say one thing: whoever dares and touches public money, whoever dares and touches the sweat of the Greek people will go to prison for life. He's not going out again. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would now like to talk a little bit about the New Democracy. And I'm doing this because you all agree with the vaccine. I do not agree with one of you, however. You split the Greek people. A party, a government must unite the Greeks. He mustn't divide them. This is your big mistake. Trolls of New Democracy from the undergrounds of Piraeus, but also some strange, classic journalists, something Babeids, something Mars, some good children present in "SCAI" and elsewhere, are constantly talking about liars. They call disgraceful lies to those who have reservations - not me, the whole world - about the vaccine. Now, who are the liars? I'll tell you what. Are they the ones who ran to the rallys dressed with chlamydrobes, but have they now taken out the chlamydes and meet in Maximos Zaev and furthermore, do they approve of northern Macedonia or those who have just reservations about something they do not know and which has not been tested? They're the ones doing the white one. Lies are the ones kneeling in front of Zafe. Lies are the ones who kneel in front of Erdogan. They're the ones making a five-way commission. They are the ones who, with a statement from the Foreign Minister of the country, said we would never make oil and gas extraction. So it is regrettable - and I will say it directly - that the New Democracy, which has done exactly the opposite to what it said in the past. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because you were electorally saying good things. You've been doing good. And it's not the MPs' fault, I repeat. They have no share of responsibility. The only moral responsibility the MPs have is that they should give the next vote instead of a hundred and fifty eight, eight PASOKs who have ministers to vote and fifty to cast the government down. Then I'll say they have no responsibility. To end the story. Zafe to Maximus. Where have we arrived? Even Tsipras doesn't do that. Not even Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Comrade, did not do that, to call Zaev to Maximos. It's unbelievable! We didn't even imagine it. But the Prime Minister is honest. At the rally, the Prime Minister skied in Corinthia. Others put the chlamydia on, some idiots doing dickheads every day. They put chlamydia, helmets, headlines, made the Great Alexander, Parmenonia, Philota, the Macedonians, the Macedonians. And today they became five-fashioned. They've been made - I repeat - peppotranslates normal. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy: they have done this not for the Members, but for the media. The media is abusive to everyone. I'm not talking about the PSE. Let go of that. It's over for me the story with the PSE. There's no ERR, because if there was an ERR, there would be a voice. I see in SKAI once a week SYRIZA or two and no journalist who comes to SYRIZA. Well, you guys from outside sometimes, it's red. We never go through. Only New Democracy passes. There is no government in the world to tolerate this fascist media perception, no other voice, neither SYRIZA nor the JRC. That means democracy, an exchange of views, arguments, a dialogue. That means democracy! We gave her birth. How do you stand it? Honestly, all day long I've seen a stalk, Adoni, Stakoura - now I'm telling you names - Pleasure, Theochari. All day I see ministers coming out. The Minister's leaving, the newly-democratic journalist is coming out. The neo-democratic journalist's leaving, the Minister's coming in again. The Minister's leaving, another neo-democratic journalist comes in. That's what's going on. It's a disgrace. It's laughing and crying. If you think you're going to be so backed up by the media at some point, if they pull your plug, you'll fall down as a sex fig, you'll fall down. Nor did it surprise many of you that, for the first time in time, we had no state prices for the Holy Light? Aren't you, gentlemen? I'm saying it with soul pain, because we've got religions here, we have atheists. They have an ideology Marx, atheism, etc. I understand that. You are Orthodox Christians. So, the Holy Light without the honors of the state? Holy shit! Zafe as Head of State you have him today. The Holy Light? Honestly, I wonder: Close the churches. You have a Greek-phobia. A Christian-phobia and orthodoxphobia you have it. I understand that. I don't accept it, but I hear it. In Lesvos on April 26, five hundred gathered and made Ramadan. It was a Ramadan real. Do you understand? He was one on each other in Lesvos. Hundreds were no distances, no masks. Did Epitaphi and Resurrection hurt you? And I have seen this and I say it, and may some be sad and say: Tell me what country is the country seriously interrupting a football game to worship Muslims in Ramadan? Did you hear that, gentlemen? They interrupted a football game in Greece, because five - six players were Muslims to pray for their Ramadan. If we had five to six - I say - the Great Friday or the Greetings and said: 'No, we will now stop to pray', you would tell them Taliban. They would be called "Christiantaliban". These others, however, are not a Taliban. Just their right to practice their religious duties, they exercised it. See how Christian-phobic we've become. I'll tell you what I want. I want a Europe tolerant, a Europe that tolerates all, a Greece tolerant, but Greece will be Christian and Greek, tolerant, Christian and Greek. That's what I want. If you can't, go. It's over. There's no other way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And to understand what I'm saying, I'll give it to you in the Minutes. It's a disgrace. The Ministry of Education sent wishes for Easter to Muslims and Jews. It's all posted on the page. He didn't send anything to Christians. The Ministry of Greek Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Kerameos, told her many years only to Jews and Muslims. Why didn't he tell Christians? And I didn't understand why the Muslims? Mr. Tsipras did the same thing. He made wishes for Ramadan. Okay. We'll wish for the ramaine. We should also wish Christians a wish, though. To wish the Jews, too. We should also wish Christians a wish. What are Christians? Is that disgusting? What is it? What can I say? I don't know. I really don't know. And because time is pushing, I'd like to say something. This morning I learned about France with the green passport. I'll analyze it in a few minutes. We're going to the economy because we have finance ministers here. We have a missile cluster, the heavy artillery of New Democracy. Mr. Stavoura, I have asked your ministries ten times: How much does it cost our country? You know? So I challenge the Minister of Finance now - he will speak shortly - to tell us how much money the independent authorities cost in our country, how much millions of euros. I have written answers. But I want my country's Minister of Finance to tell me, why if we take off AIA, which is 600 million that costs and is another thing, the rest costs over 500 million euros? Yes or no? And I've got the paperwork. Tell me how much it costs. And I'll say one more thing. And it is not enough that you are not abolishing them - the Constitution says five - it had the real idea that Mr Hatzidakis would abolish the Labour Inspectorate and make another independent authority now, so he could reap his own people, so that he could go out first in the North Sector, because that's how it goes out, of the thousands of voters that go hand in hand, as if the public sector were smooth. It's not your party's prey. It is not the prey of SYRIZA, the prey of PASOK, the prey of the Change Movement, the KKE, the Greek Solution the public. The public is an organization, a mechanism that serves the citizen. It's not your party prey. The problem, Mr Minister of Finance, is that you do not really see the indicators. We had a terrible import increase. We had a terrible import increase. When your trade deficit, Minister, is swelling every day, you have a problem with your balance. It's just financial. You don't have to be a professor. Make, produce wealth, create conditions for wealth production, Mr. Stakoura. We're full of words. It's a pleasure to borrow you at a low interest rate. Christ, Holy Mary, and God mind the Greeks! To be happy to borrow and have to charge for the next generation, rather than to be happy to generate wealth, to create jobs, to create wealth and that is where I pay my debts. These gentlemen, who had an election plan and who were called, borrowed - he says - are low, and we must all applaud it. Give it a hand. They're borrowing low-priced. They reached the very great argument of recovery in the economy. But you can't go on lying. It is 21.7% of the trade balance deficit in March 2021. Alongside a coronary, Minister, Mr. Stakoura, send a postcard for municipal fees. They pay municipal fees, you know, Ministers? Mr. Zavez, Mr. Stavoura, do you know they're paying city fees closed shops? Do you know that? Do you know there are increments, too, if the man can't pay? How's that working out? Are there any increments to something I don't work, which you ordered me to close? Tell me how it's done. Send a piece of paper and say people don't pay anything to the municipalities. Municipal surcharges? haircut of all increments, ninety-six-dose settlement, total deletion says the Greek Solution. Delete debts. You closed the market. You've made Lockdown. You shut down the stores. Why should I pay the bride? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But you don't dare do debt write-offs. You didn't. However, deletions to the debts of your parties and your loans have been made. You never paid for it. You give 5,000 and the story ends. Shame on you! Deletes and haircuts in "CORDER THEME", however, you did. Deletes and haircuts in the “CORDER THEME” have been made. At a big TV station that all day we see oranges and lemons and live the pandemic, known there at sea near the sea, made him a haircut on his loans. Why don't you cut the borrowers, the red loans and just do to your best friends? And there's more. On May 30, 2020 - listen - they closed the large lignite factory in Heart a few days ago. It is in favour of green development, as the Prime Minister says. At the same time in Germany it started operating a steam power plant with lignite. But we have a Prime Minister who laughed when he said: 'I close the lignites' to work for the Germans. But I did at the time, because I realized that the Greek leadership did not realize that it hit the country's energy miracle, which is lignites and gas, and the great patriot Dendias came from Saudi Arabia to tell us to forget about gas, forget about oil, we won't mining. Is that who you are? Is this the New Democracy? With what right does a Foreign Minister cancel mining? That's what the Minister of Development will do. That's what the Minister responsible for the oil is doing, I understand. Who's Mr. Dendias? If he wants to be a dolphin, it's another matter, it's his. It's not our business. But you cannot cancel struggles, sacrifices of the Greek people, bankruptcys, when there is hope to have gas, huge amount -3 trillions say some - but also to become a strategic and energy partner of major alliances. It is - I will say it directly - criminal what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done. Delete in national debt and extinguishation do not allow anyone the Greek solution, when it comes to our national issues. End of story, Mr. Teddy! You won't play with these issues. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, let me not say that once again you are serving Latsis with the ELPEs. Again energy with ELPE. Let me not recall that Tsohatzopoulos and Papantoniou have committed crimes in the past with the ELPEs. Now in ELPE, Mr. Latsis is running the test, and he's given the ELPEs back to the plate. You guys are nice. Latsi! Latsis, the great investor of the Greek, who went from broken, bankrupt Greek banks and took a loan to make the investment in the Greek and took the ELPE gift. It's like bleach. You get one, you get a second present! That's what you're doing. Shame on you! Shame on you! I'm telling you, I didn't think so. I didn't expect all this! And I will not say about Mr Stakoura that we have a complete collapse of economic data. How did our obligations in the European Central Bank increase by 61 billion will he tell us? Huh? How? They talked to us about the Recovery Fund. The Prime Minister and Mr. Stakoras came here, chosen, kind, otherwise, and they told us that the Recovery Fund will save us. Isn't that what you were telling us? Didn't you tell us that the Recovery Fund is big and that it's going to help us and do us? That's what you and the Prime Minister said. Nine countries - parliaments have not adopted it. How did you say that? I see that the President of Parliament is here, he has entered the Chamber and stands in the back seats. Mr President, I have Myrtus' letter. I want to find a solution. And you'll find a solution because I know you're sensitive to these issues. I close here and I won't say more about the economy. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u53	Hang up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u54	Yes, Mr. President. I'll tell you something that happened today, because I told you that lying is very close to legs. Mr Theocharis came to the 'BBBC'. Unfortunately, he was humiliated - to say it directly - and the New Democracy tales collapsed. Journalist to Mr Theocharis: "Greece is one of the slowest in the progress of vaccinations." They've done this story a huge, flag! Theocharis: 'No, no, we are not.' Journalist: “I disagree. You are in the five worst countries of Europe." Your Minister's streaked and never spoke again. These are your successes - these! - But successes that are paid, because you pay the media to lie to the Greek people. You keep giving them money. There are three kinds of perceptions of reality, ladies and gentlemen, and I close here: The one you have for yourself - you think you are Caesar, Moses, the huge, the successful one - the one that others have for you, the world - because of money, the media tell you 'a, what good ones you are' - and the one that really exists. For us, what really exists is that the New Democracy has unfortunately failed at all! You failed! Get out of here and save the place! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. I would ask that the Step be prepared, in order for the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, to speak, with the request, Minister, to be placed on the amendments as well. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. The honourable President of the Greek Parliamentary Group said that the current government failed at all, but chose to say so in a bill in which only successes are recorded and I will be very specific. Once again, however, at the very short time that he devoted to the economy in a bill on the economy - because he is speaking of everyone - he has, on the one hand, proposed new interventions to increase deficit and debt with new 'leaf trees' and, on the other, he has ironed the country's exit to the markets at extremely low borrowing costs. We can't do one and the other. It is obvious that the Greek economy for many months has been operating under special conditions. It has reduced revenues due to the economic downturn and has increased costs due to the government's right choice to support households and businesses. So every month he has less revenue, increased spending. Who's going to cover the difference? The cashier of the country. The country's fund is systematically reinforced with highly successful debt issues, short-term issues - money markets, long-term issues - capital markets. And this is happening with unprecedented low borrowing costs. There's no other way. And we do it seriously, methodically, consistently. Let us therefore respond one by one, especially in this draft law, which demonstrates and confirms the correctness of economic policy being pursued, but also - most importantly - the consistency of words and projects. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is the incorporation of Community directives on the banking system. Its aim is to further shield the banking system in order both to effectively manage economic shocks and to be able to provide continuous liquidity to the real economy. This will result, inter alia, in the attraction and realisation of new investments, the use of inert resources of the economy and the further improvement of the value of the Greek debt. All of this will help to achieve high, sustainable, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. Thus, this draft law incorporates the Directives of the European Union 2019/878 and 2019/879 in the Greek legal order. I will not go further on these two incorporations because the analysis has been carried out with adequate and completeness by the State Secretary, Mr Zavvos. However, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law also includes a number of other ministerial amendments, all accepted by the Ministry of Finance, which are prompted by the current bill, and an amendment by the Ministry of Finance that extends and extends the protection net to households and businesses to mitigate the effects of the coronary pandemic on households and businesses. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I would like to point out two points between the other amendments: First, for May 2021, the leaser shall also be exempted from the obligation to pay the total rent to an establishment for which special and exceptional measures have been taken to suspend or ban an operation. Secondly, by 31 May the deadline for submission of applications to the ‘GEYRA 2’ programme, which provides support to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have proved to have been affected by the financial impact of the coronary pandemic, is extended until 31 May. The support, as you know, relates to the State grant of the monthly business loan to up to nine months and for eight months. The programme has a particularly positive impact, as according to the current figures of the Private Debt Management Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance - around one month - from 5 April to 5 April, as I said yesterday, today - there have been definitively thirty-three thousand, seventeen applications. Of these, eighteen thousand six hundred eighty-five are applications from micro-enterprises, ten thousand three hundred seventy-one from free professionals or individual companies, three thousand four hundred thirty-three from small businesses and sixty-three from medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, it is noted that the ‘GEVER 1’ programme has already been subsidized by eighteen thousand eighty-forty-eight loans, corresponding to seventy-five thousand three hundred seventy-seven beneficiaries, with the total amount of State subsidy paid to EUR 120,000,000, in a total of six phases of payments from November 2020 to April 2021. In short, let me just say this: Seventy-five thousand three hundred of our seventy compatriots, natural persons, instead of paying the instalment to the bank, the state budget pays it. For the first time, consistency has been rewarded in the country, and above all we are helping those who have been consistent with their obligations over the last few years. Seventy-five thousand three hundred seventy households! This has never been done before! In conclusion, also from this amendment, it turns out that Greece has faced the acute effects of the health crisis on the economy and society in the best way possible, as has been repeatedly recognised by partners, institutions, markets, assessment houses, investors, but above all by Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling a number of legislative improvements to the core of the bill and the amendment that I have just developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u57	This amendment deals with the short-term needs of the Greek economy arising from the pandemic. Apart from these political initiatives to support households and businesses, however, the Ministry of Finance gradually builds up but firmly in the post-Koronian era, by catching the thread from where we left it in February 2020. In this context we are making use of the budgetary flexibility that applies to all European Member States, but we are doing so responsibly, so that we do not lead to fiscal derailment, in seriousness, showing responsibility and methodicality, demonstrating credibility. And it's time to talk about credibility. The New Democracy was electorally committed to implementing a prudent, responsible fiscal policy, aiming at reducing household and business taxation and supporting medium- and low incomes, especially the middle-class. Today, despite the unprecedented, difficult health conditions, the government's balance sheet, and in this area, it is very positive. The financial staff with considerable commitment and consistency in their commitments achieved significant objectives, reducing tax rates for households and businesses and introducing tax incentives for natural and legal persons. He even managed within the vortex of an unprecedented global crisis data not only to keep society and the economy up, but also to shape the appropriate conditions for a dynamic relaunch and strong recovery of our economy in the post-Koronian era. For example, we have designed and implemented, as the last amendment we have tabled - we are debating it today - in less than two years - what you will hear is less than two years! - a series of interventions in the tax field, fully consistent with our election commitments. Less than two years! I'm starting: Reduction of tax rates. What did we say and what did we do? We have reduced HNVO by 22%, we have exempted HNVIA from the main residence on small remote islands. We have reduced the tax rate to natural persons from 22% to 9%. We increased the tax-free limit for every child. We have created a new progressive tax scale for natural persons with one unit reduction at all the highest tax rates. We have reduced the profit-making tax rate from 28% to 24% and today to 22%. We have reduced the tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%. We have reduced the tax advance today by a provision for all natural persons engaged in business from 100% to 55%. We have today reduced the tax advance from business to legal persons and legal entities from 100% to 80%, and especially for this year at 70%. We are now suspending the solidarity levy with private sector employees, incomes, professionals and farmers in 2021 and 2022 in 2022. We abolished the 0.6% levy for factoring and leasing companies. We have introduced a low tax rate of 10% for all agricultural schemes. We have introduced a reduced rate of tax of 6% for classes of vaccines, medicines and diagnostics for patients with discomfort and cancer patients. We reduced VAT rates to 13% for infants, motorcycle helmets, children's seats. We have reduced VAT for several months in transport, coffee, drinks, cinema and theatre tickets, in the tourist package. We have set the species for the treatment of disabled persons at the reduced rate of VAT of 6%. And very importantly: We have reduced, starting with the leadership of the Ministry of Labour, Giannis Vroutzis, by four percentage points, the insurance contributions of private sector employees. This is what we have done and are accountable to the Greek people in less than two years' time despite the health crisis. And we didn't stop here. Second section: Adoption of tax incentives. We have reduced by 50% the tax rate of the first step for newly-born companies for the first three years of their operation. We reformed the tax framework for the acquisition of shares by employees, the stock options. We have introduced a reduction in the costs of businesses for corporate social responsibility actions. We streamlined the framework for calculating the costs to be incurred by electronic means. We have introduced a 40% tax deduction for expenditure on receiving services for energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. We suspended the real estate transfer tax for three years. We have put in place arrangements for bonds interest, the taxation of companies that invest in real estate, real estate funds, portfolio investment companies, UCITS. We have introduced an increased deduction on tax depreciation of non-polluting passenger cars. We have granted an increased deduction for specific costs relating to workers and to environmental protection. We promoted VAT exemption for donations in order to support donations to the Greek public for public purposes. We exempted cars for the private use of laundry cars from the luxury subsistence tax. We have created a special scheme for alternative taxation of incomes that arises abroad for natural persons carrying their tax residences in Greece, the "Non-Dom", who make significant investments in Greece. We have extended the alternative taxation of income to pensioners abroad, who have been exceptionally successful so far transferring their tax home to our country. We have provided incentives through income tax and the special solidarity levy for the return to the country of Greeks who left the country in the years of the crisis and have introduced incentives for the creation of special-purpose companies for the management of family property, the famous family offices. That's what we did. So no one is entitled to talk about government failure, when we are in less than two years' time, despite the health crisis, fully consistent with our election commitments on budgetary policy and, in particular, tax policy. The total cost of the measures included, which are included in the amendment tabled today by the Government - in fact, today, we are discussing it and tabled yesterday - is to reduce the tax advance for natural and legal persons, reduce the tax on incomes of legal persons and exempt the imposition of the special solidarity levy for 2021 and 2022 and is EUR 2 billion additional, EUR 906 million for 2021, EUR 950 million for 2022 and EUR 112 million for 2023. We found the budget area, we agreed with the institutions and we implement our election commitments. In conclusion, we have achieved a great deal, reformed enough on the real field in favour of many and proved in extremely difficult conditions that we are planning and doing. Remote chatter is not our choice. Our aim is now extended to the next day and to a smooth return to normality, which is already "on the door". Because we, in contrast to Civicism, want regularity. We must continue to work with confidence in our forces, in terms of economic efficiency and social justice and in order to achieve high and sustainable growth, create many good jobs and strengthen social cohesion. And we will do so boldly and decisively, as I have shown you, we have done so all these months of the country's government from New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too, Minister. And now I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Digital Governance, Mr Stylian, to be put for five minutes for his amendment. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Government at the initiative of the Minister for Digital Governance, Mr Pierracakis. Paragraphs 8 and 9 of Article 6a of Law 2308/1995 are replaced. So this amendment concerns very substantial and very important issues relating to the realisation and effective functioning of the register. There is therefore an issue that concerns first of all the citizens, all of the citizens of the country, which concerns contractors who carry out the process of ceremonisation throughout the country, and which is certainly also about the body, the Hellenic Register. The purpose of this arrangement is the system for examining applications for correction submitted by citizens who face errors in the elements of the suspension made during the realisation process. Let us see what has happened so far, what Article 6a provides for, of which we replace paragraphs 8 and 9. The citizen objected, the application for correction, the application for correction from the vacancy office was examined by the contractor, therefore, by the scholar who had undertaken to do the realisation, but his application stopped there. If they were rejected, the citizen was not entitled to resort to a second instance to a committee which was set up and which was previously provided for in Article 6 of Law 2308/1995. It could have resorted to this committee. Article 6a deprived him of that right. So we are coming today with this regulation and reintroducing this right to the citizen. If he rejects his objection that he has differences in relation to some third parties, whoever these third parties are, he can then provide additional information and appeal to a credible committee, which will be set up and provided by law by the Hellenic Register. With this process we are looking forward to solving a major problem that has been presented at the moment, and it is about having too many applications for correction and objections that are pending and have not been dealt with. The reason why these applications have not been dealt with is that the contractors have appealed to the Council of State and are not considered by a provision passed in 2019 as unconstitutional and do not avenge objections. Thus, a total blockage has been made when we have fifteen joint ventures in progress throughout the country. So, with the provision, we are trying to correct and cure this problem. This provision has been discussed. It has been consulted with all the stakeholders and has the consent of all the stakeholders, that is to say, it also has the consent of the contractors, both from the Greek Stock Exchange and from the citizens who want to proceed with the acquisition process. So we have secured consensus, and we have made the necessary dialogue. Let us see what else is going on with this provision and how we ensure that it is transparent and functioning. All the elements and findings that will be drawn from the committees, whether during the acquisition or to a second degree, will be posted on the website of the Hellenic Register, as well as on the single digital portal of the public, the well-known gov.gr. In addition, the citizen will receive personal information - information and via e-mail for the procedure. Of course, all of this will be included in communications and decisions that will be made by the board of directors of the Hellenic Stock Exchange. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We are therefore voting in favour of the procedure for discussing objections, applications for correction and appeals, and we expect that we will have quick results, we will have transparency, we will have more and better acceleration in the process of realisation. That is why we call on all the parties in this House to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too, Minister. And now we're going to the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. The first will be Mr Kavadas from New Democracy, shortly after Mr Alexiadis and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to wish for many years and Christ Anestis to all! The bill debate is taking place at a tragic occasion and you will allow me out of the matter to express my regret and dismay at the barbarity with which some killed three days ago a young mother next to her baby. I believe that I am expressing the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens by pointing out that the Act of Friday cannot apply to these crimes, to these people. Because if it is implemented, when they are arrested and convicted, they will find themselves out of prison after relatively few years compared with the weight of their actions. Global social demand is to tighten up the framework for such crimes, for specific abhorrent and shameful acts, and the government, ladies and gentlemen, is already moving in this direction. Already the Minister of Justice Costas Tsiaras announced an increase in the length of stay in prison for the perpetrators of violent crime. Very briefly, from this Chamber of the Greek Parliament, we will all be called upon to vote for the strictening of the penalty for criminal offenders and I would like to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be a maximum majority. Returning to the subject of the debate, the Greek bill for the harmonisation of European legislation on the financial system, financial and financial corporations, shields the banking system. Development shows that banks will soon have a one-digit percentage of non-performing loans. This will be the first step to refinance the economy and especially small and medium-sized enterprises. As I said, there is a time when a return to normality is now visible. The opening up of economic activities, the intensity of vaccinations, but also the government's policies, speed up the return to normality that, as they all show, does not like Civic Opposition. The vaccination program "Blue Freedom" on the islands aims to build an immunity wall by the end of June, to send a message that Greece is a safe destination for its visitors. Already 13% of the vaccinations have been carried out throughout the territory, and on my island, Lefkada, vaccinations are already going very well. Our three smaller islands, Meganisi, Kalamos and Kastos have been fully vaccinated and are now covid free. Ladies and gentlemen, life returns. Today the SMSs are over, restrictions on inter-universal movements are ending. We are ready to welcome our visitors, to move the economy, to work on businesses and thousands of workers employed in tourism and focus and on islands such as Lefkada, produce 70% of local GDP. Of course, the opening up of tourism does not mean relaxing the measures, not least the opposite. Each one of us must now be more careful. We continue to wear our masks, keep our distances, keep our sanitary measures and be vaccinated. In most countries where vaccinations have gone ahead we see spectacular results. In the United States of America and England with hundreds of dead men in the previous period, cases are now dramatically reduced. We must and we can do the same here to live and work the summer safely. Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time SYRIZA has been denying everything. He had put his hopes in the pandemic. The government goes beyond this difficult canvas with people's confidence. The Prime Minister, not only maintains, but has increased the capital of confidence and acceptance of the vast majority of citizens. In these twenty-two months, under unprecedented circumstances and unprecedented crises and situations, the government acted with credibility, adequacy and with a measurable work to present. In 2020 and the first months of 2021, 40 billion euros were allocated to support the economy, business and workers. These resources do not come from the cash reserves, which SYRIZA called on us to break down from the start of the crisis, but mainly from the issue of interest and bond issues. The government is now moving towards strengthening the business of the focus, with working capital through a EUR 500 million programme. It extends the business loan grant programme ‘GBERA 2’, a total of EUR 500 million. By the end of the month, the enhanced special-purpose compensation will be made available to some EUR 130 million to some 100 000 businesses. The total exemption from the obligation to pay rent for the firms affected is also extended for May. And by means of the amendment that the Treasury has put to the vote, the Treasury has deducted and abolished tax burdens and charges. In particular, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government had imposed a 100% tax deposit. Today, the Mitsotakis Government comes and reduces it to 55% for freelance professionals and individual businesses and 70% for businesses. It decreases to 22% from 24% the tax rate for businesses. This is the second reduction in company taxation by the Government of New Democracy. In 2022, the special solidarity levy on income acquired from private sector employees, from rents and from agricultural activity, is abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is changing page. She's leaving the hard stuff behind. The Government forms the conditions for restarting the economy and returning to normality. What Greek citizens want are not split sermons. They know, they know, they saw where populism, easy solutions and promises without reflection leads. Greek citizens want policies with measurable results. They are ready to support major and deep changes, to work to relaunch the economy to return to this place life and creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u62	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Alexiadis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. I also thank those present in the Chamber, although there are not too many, for their tolerance to what I shall say and for their patience to hear my speech. Today we are discussing a directive which only covers ten lines. I don't want any time to be wasted by repeating him. We are discussing such a directive and I think there is a large majority and our position has been expressed by our rapporteur. I won't waste time to say the same thing again. Of course, our rapporteur also said forbidden words to the Greek Parliament. He said the name of a businessman. A former Minister, who was waiting to hear me, is no longer in the Chamber. She's gone and I wonder why. The rest of the Ministers who are here, I hope, will respond to the specific entrepreneur and the specific mobilisation that is being done - for those who have not learned it - at eleven tomorrow in Omonia, for those workers who are so struggling with and suffering from the New Democracy and who also bring relevant provisions. So we expect both New Democracy and the Change Movement from the other parties to their position for this businessman and for tomorrow's mobilisation. We are talking today about a bill, a specific directive on a difficult day, the next day of the filing of a bill that returns us to the working ages, the next day of such a bill that has already begun to get answers in and out of Parliament. Another response outside the House will be received by the government this afternoon at seven o'clock, in the mobilization of SYRIZA Piraeus, at Piraeus Municipal Theatre. And you can be sure that these mobilisations will escalate, widen and your work will be very difficult in the next time and within and outside the House. We also discuss the next day of a major publicity by dikastiko.gr of the decision for another company, as we read from the post. I would also like the Change Movement from the New Democracy to their position. So we read in the post that consistently, systematically, over time, the two major power parties received money from this company. Otherwise, we tell Piraeus at the port, we call it mixed. I want you to answer sometime. You cannot think that this is something that has not happened. Is it true what the court's decision writes or isn't it true? Because you may be wrongly accused and must turn against those who blame your parties unjustly. Because someone says you took money from a company. Why did you take money? For philosophical and ideological reasons or for a specific service of specific interests? Because you are the angels of the cleansing and you are trying in another room, in a committee of inquiry to find witnesses, who are afraid to come and testify, to set up a service against SYRIZA. Parliament's normality requires me to talk about the bill. And I think that in his second speech the Minister - as in the past - will observe: 'But what did you say about the bill?' I talked about the bill. After all, our representative has said so well, and I do not have to say anything else. With the time available, however, I would like to say something else. I would like to say, above all, about the targeting that a Member of Parliament, the present, Trophin Alexiadis, has received from a specific media agency, which is probably his job. Their salary is worth it! I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. So I quote the sound extract and the New Democracy press release. Note: The New Democracy press release did not contain the audio passage, because it was enough to get the topic from this station. Of course, it has been delayed several days. But since this station said so, what to do, it had to make a press release. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, at this point I would like to note some things. First of all, I would like to thank the New Democracy publicly for the possibility of highlighting our political position. They started from our secretary, Mr. Tzanakopoulou, moved on to Mrs. Ahtsoglou, they honoured me, too, trying to twist and target. That's good for us. Keep it up. When you do not have political positions of your own, and when you have a lack of political reason and dialogue on the issues that we put in public, you do well and do what you do, because it enables us to reproduce and highlight our own positions. There's a question mark. I, in the press release I made just as soon as this terrible attack and the construction took place, asked for a New Democracy official, any media outlets you have and all you have, if you can withstand - not to say the word and misunderstood here - to come and have a public debate about what I have said. So far, not one has been found. With one who happened to a channel and went to say, "Have you heard the sound?" And he says to me, "No, sorry, we're going further." So I repeat the challenge from here too. Is there a New Democracy official who will withstand the public debate on these statements even at this station? For those of you in the New Democracy who have read the political history of the country, you will see that the specific passage of the New Democracy, while mentioning other than my words, justified the positive reference of a symbia to the founder of New Democracy, Constantine Karamanlis. Good for you! Are you even afraid of mentioning these matters in public? Also, on this matter, I raised exactly what the 1974 Constitution says, which you fear and discuss and highlight. In the very short time that is left, I would just like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 874 on specific topics, which relate mainly to large and very large companies. Because, Minister, I understand that this company that financed the power parties - I imagine the parliamentary representatives or representatives will answer me later - will benefit a lot from this amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Low incomes, the middle class, for which so many crocodile tears are shed every day by the officials of the New Democracy, how will small and medium-sized people benefit? Just explain it to us, please. I've seen the few things in the amendment, first of all, what money is there, and I'm happy, because someone else at the Ministry of Finance is worried about us, and he says there's no money. It is good, of course, that you are reducing taxes, but we want fair taxes. It is good that you are reducing tax burdens. Besides, the first to start this from 2019 was SYRIZA. But that is another conversation, which we can do whenever you want. So I saw that there is money and that out of 2.3 billion, which these amendments will cost, 56% is legal persons and entities - that is, large and very large companies - 10% are natural persons and 34% are private sector salaries that are more than 12 000 per month. So I ask again - I ask again, rather, why have I asked too many times, but, of course, I do not take it and every time I hear that something will be done in the future - for those who are on the frontline of the pandemic, for doctors, for nurses, for officers, for officers, for officers, for men and women in the port, for teachers, teachers and for all those in the private sector who will not see anything in this amendment, will there be a response from the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u64	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u65	I should like to close, Madam President, and thank you for your time-tolerance - with one last question to the Minister of Finance. Since the latest evidence has shown that despite the celebrations that everything is going well in the country and that we are in economic development, debts to the AIA have increased to tax in March 2021 by 27% compared to the debts in March 2020, we would like an answer on how to manage this issue, which if you combine it with the 2020 and 2021 deficits, we are going to go to a terrible situation. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, too. Mr Katrinis, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, we want to express our grief for the loss of Thodorne Katvava, a strain with a significant presence and action against the junta. In PAK, PASOK, as a Member of the government, he, as a member of the government, worked on the front line of politics as well as on the party and the country. So we want to express our warmest condolences to his family. Secondly, I would like to thank Mr Alexiadis for reminding us, very briefly, of the syriza's vulgar attitude ten, eleven years ago and of the tactical political cannibalism, which was followed by his proliferation and not only. He was also your co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, who hasn't come out to make a statement since his condemnation of slandering defamation against the Papandreou family. He didn't have the courage neither did you go out and ask for public apology. And because it is the week of apology that Mr. Georgiadis asked you for the New Democracy attitude and the inconsistency that they made in the hemp bill, you, really, gentlemen of SYRIZA, will ever find the courage to apologise for the extremes - political, verbal - that you have taken a few steps further, legalising extremist actions and unacceptable attitudes, yes or no? And you have the courage to give up on us to apologize! Do you have that courage, yes or no? Because you remind us of the old, good SYRIZA who threw it on the stream of anger and then found it in front of it and convicted it. Yesterday, of course, Mr Hatzidakis - to return to the serious issues of topicality - announced that he would bring us a bill which will very little - solve all the issues with which it will all be settled, that everything will be resolved, that everything will work a clock. Government intervention is very soon translated into'more hours of work, less rights, less wages for workers'. They hide the choice of working hours and, of course, the abolition of collective agreements and the possibility of pushing the employer for unpaid overtime with the prospect of some days of leave in the longer term. Evidently, government officials live in another country, because in Greece of the ten-year crisis with real unemployment, black work and underemployment more than 35% of the worker's consent to dismissal should be seen as a given one. And of course the government will say that the dismissal will be deemed void. The hard reality is, however, that the worker will not have much to prove, but, above all, will not be re-entered, since all according to Mr Hatzidakis and the government are overtaken by a simple increase in compensation. We have already heard the Minister for Finance present to us a number of provisions and positive arrangements made by the government on the issue of taxation. Before I make the debate and reply to all these very nice ones that he mentioned and speaking about the bill aimed at financial stability and stability of the banking system - in addition, a series of bills have been passed for this, the Hive Down, the 'HRAKLIS', the TF, the recapitalisation of the Piraeus Bank or even the extension and settlement of the arbitrary bank loans - I would like to say that the question, ladies and gentlemen, is not what the Greek Parliament is doing or what the Greek Parliament is doing about the banking system. The question is what the banking system for the national economy, for the citizens, for social cohesion and economic stability is doing. And we say this because if we look at the question of liquidity, which is important, it concerns thousands of businesses, we will see that only thirty thousand businesses - we have been shouting since last year, our data confirms, no response from the government - have access to liquidity through banks. From the banks, which show surplus liquidity over 47 billion to date, after having received a negative interest rate above EUR 40 billion from the European Central Bank and according to the Bank of Greece's figures, in 2020 only EUR 6.7 billion was disbursed, 6.4 of which was guaranteed by the Greek State, i.e. 95% of the liquidity provided by the banks was guaranteed by the Greek State. Secondly, even these loans, the most important part of what was given was not new financing, but they were refinancing or repayment of earlier loans. So in the real economy even less. Banks choose to reposition liquidity in the form of deposits with the European Central Bank. Banks choose to buy bonds to reduce dependence on the interbank market. The banks have announced that, in 2021, real liquidity will not exceed EUR 4 to EUR 5 billion. And here is a ruthless question, gentlemen of the government: Do you as government, as a Responsibility Observatory, set up after biblicals, what have you done all this time? Can the Minister of Finance, who is headed by the Responsibility Observatory, tell us what he has done to facilitate access to banking and liquidity? The answer is: Nothing. And the answer is of particular value because the same pattern will also be adopted for the loans to be granted to enterprises through the Recovery Fund. You, Mr Zavvez, told the committee that only viable businesses are being strengthened in liquidity. Who judges that? You or the banking system? And on what criteria? And is what we are reading that you will not give tax incentives for a merger of companies through the Recovery Fund but simply for the acquisition of small and individual enterprises from much larger? We need a clear answer. Second liquidity issue: a year ago, 11 months ago in fact, we voted in this Chamber on the framework for microfinance, most of which - most of which - and Mr Zavvos said in particular that it would be an alternative way of financing. Shall we make a fund today, Mr. Undersecretary? Only one application has been submitted to the Bank of Greece and it is from the CSMEDE. Do you have the courage to admit that this initiative has failed and that you did not support it as much as you should? Third theme, the programme to cover fixed costs. You advertised it. You did let it be understood that it would even cover PPC's accounts. Finally, while you presented it as a liquidity measure, what is it? It is a voucher clearing of tax and insurance obligations to reduce dues to tax and income. Just the same thing you do with the Prime Minister's own announcement of non-return of 30% to 50% of the first three phases of the repayable advance, which will normally be reimbursed in full, at 100%, from 2022 onwards. This figure -30% to 50% - is also netting tax and insurance obligations. I listened with interest to the Minister to say that we have gone very well in the part of the programs "GEVY 1" and "GEVY 2" which remind you that the government presented them as a counterweight to its political decision for the first time in the country after 2010 to abolish the protection of first residence. Let's go look at the facts and if what the Minister says is true. "GIRL 2": A month and a half ago you spoke of a perimeter of a hundred and twenty to a hundred fifty thousand beneficiaries. By May 9th, thirty and one thousand applications are not sure that they will be approved. You are extending this date, and you are saying that it is the workload that did not allow accountants to make applications. "GEVY 1": For six out of nine months, two thirds of the time period, 119 million euros have been allocated. I would remind you that this programme, you said at the outset, will be 518 million in the 388 budget and you will end up giving less than half of the budget you have budgeted. Really, did the Greek borrowers go crazy and the savings programs, as you presented them, "GEYS 1" and "GEYS 2", get the subsidy for their instalments and get out of financial burden? Obviously, that's not the case. The terms and conditions you have established are suffocating, create too many problems, and it turns out that these programmes, despite the fact that they support seventy-five thousand in the vast majority of informed borrowers only in order to prevent the risk of redundancies in loans for the benefit of the banks. In fact, you are celebrating the bank upgrades from the rating houses, as you say, the downgrading of non-performing loans. Ask Greek society. Has the Prime Minister said so yesterday at his meeting with Mr Reggling that the red loans have been reduced and we did not understand that? Private debt is increasing over 243 billion, late debts to tax only in the first quarter of 2021 more than 2.2 billion more, two hundred and fifty thousand real estate auctions are preparing for the next five years by the servicers. The Association of Requirements Management Companies and the Hellenic Banking Association are requesting an extension of the program. You say, Mr Zavves, that the Greek taxpayer is not at risk from 'HRAKLIS', since you say that they are falling - you are saying this too - non-performing loans without risk of activation of guarantees. I hope that both will be implemented, that non-performing loans - not banks' balance sheets, that there will be a real reduction in loans - will be no guarantees. On June 1st, in fifteen days from now, the new Acquisitioner begins. I would remind you that you have announced a housing acquisition body for vulnerable borrowers who could rent and stay at home and not expel them. This body that we are talking about today does not exist and is not expected to be created before the first half of 2022. What happened to that? Absolutely nothing. Another government "success"! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So now panicky, and because on 1 June the seizures and the auctions begin, you are trying to find a way of subsidising the loans to save the social outcry, but the banks, for whose benefit we have made a series of regulations, are also pushing for accelerating seizures and auctions. We expect your political position with interest. As far as - and I am ending, Madam President - the amendments to reduce tax advances are concerned, I think that the health and economic conditions now we are talking about are exactly the same as the first half of 2020, and we do not understand why you do not apply exactly the same provisions so that there is a reduced advance of tax as the problems are exactly the same. Reduction of tax rate. I have heard the Minister mention a number of provisions that are the government's programme, according to which, as he said, in just two years and with the pandemic, he has achieved a number of reductions in taxation. I read from the Bank of Greece's Report, page 145, in the Minutes, that Greece, according to the latest assessment of Tax Foundation, which examines over forty indicators of taxation, remains at the end of 2020 in the 20th place, in exactly the same place as in 2019. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But note, Mr Brutsis, the most interesting thing, that Greece is taking the worst place in the benchmarks for the taxation of consumption - and I say this because Mr Stagiras said that we are taxing the middle-class and medium-sized ones - and it also has a worse place in the taxation of immovable property. And I ask: What will you do with the harmonisation of objective and commercial values that you told us before Easter holidays that it will be transferred for 2022 and we know that it will lure over twenty real estate taxes? Finally, a contribution of solidarity. We have tabled it - and our rapporteur has said so - our proposal and we believe that pensioners are specifically wronged, but public sector employees are also exempted from the suspension of a solidarity contribution. However, I think there is a very serious and moral issue and it seems to me that, despite the fact that, under Article 18(1) of Law 4646, which has entered into force since 1 January 2020, people with a disability rate of more than 80% are exempted from the imposition of a special solidarity contribution, today that we are talking about continuing to pay it properly. We have tabled a question with my colleague, Mr Scandalides, and we are waiting for an official answer from the government why in such a sensitive and vulnerable social group, what has been voted on in this House is not applicable. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the next time that the government thinks it can take time to avoid painful decisions, we will also see the real situation of the economy and, unfortunately, thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises listening to liquidity and liquidity do not see thousands of our fellow citizens who today who are speaking today under suffocating pressure from services and from banks, will see that all this beautiful picture presented by the government is not really directed at us, and that is why, in a series of proposals that we have made, as a Movement of Change, we call on you beyond what the banks and the services are asking you to look at and what the Greek citizens are asking for, our weak fellow citizens, who in this situation of pandemic stand with all dignity and what they are asking for? They're asking for a hand of help that you stubbornly refuse to give it to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u68	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u69	And while, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA had to have low tons for his government period, does the world forget its things, unrealized and shameful things, it is coming here today and instead of talking about the bill, as unreliable and artisanal Civic Civilization that is, it comes to attack the PASOK and the Change Movement. If you want them, gentlemen of SYRIZA, then you will hear them and I begin with the completion of the Kammenos condemnation. It is a victory of democracy, of PASOK, of Andreas Papandreou, of course - Andrikos Papandreou - but also of truth. Shame on right-wing slanders, but more shame on their left-wing attendants. You didn't find a word to say. You're not ashamed! Secondly, before the establishment of the rules of institutional guarantees and transparency for the funding of the parties in 2003, with the Minister of Interior Kostas Scandalidis, of course, there were gray zones in the financing of the parties. As a member of the Committee of Inquiry into 'SIEMENS', Mr Alexiadis, I will inform you that the statements, but also the conclusion, of course, refers to the financing of the Coalition of Progress, Ecology, the Left. I don't know what the name was then. These are registered, since you wanted to hear them and if the judicial decision refers to parties of power, obviously, from what you understood, you are no longer a party that has not managed power. Now we're going to Laurentiadis. What did you want with it? Have you forgotten the ministers' orders to facilitate the company in Kavala from DEPA not to stay the employees and to continue the company with some guarantees, but to increase the amount that this company could owe to PPC by many millions? From 30 million, if I remember well, at 110 million. They've also been named Ministers, they're both Petsitis and Poppas in this particular area. Don't you know that? What are you scratching on your cup of chop? Because in another Chamber here, in the House, you have a little patience to complete all of this. You have a little patience to really see what your face is. Working: What Does The Government Do? While the post-COVID era really requires a development plan based on a new development and productive model, with an upgrade of labour, social peace, working peace, that will make use of the workers and their strength and, of course, all the dynamics of the Greek economy, the wealthy sources and the huge amounts of funding that we now have from the European Union, the Minister of the Interior comes, bringing some positive arrangements prepared by Mr Brutsis for "ERGANIS" for the electronic labour card and teleworking, along with some European permit instructions, which he is obliged to bear. It also brings about overthrowing arrangements for work security. Does Mr Hatzidakis not know that an insecure and forced worker cannot afford to do so? I say with knowledge of my word that, if the bill were made by the employers, it would be much better. And I don't mean GCCEE, the U.S.S., employers' organisations that, together with the workers, fight everyday life, who believe in decent pay and fair distribution of wealth. I am even referring to BSE. Even BSE if he was making the bill, it would be better for the workers and the economy as a whole, why? Because BSE, as a collective body, is aware of the value of the worker, is aware of how and with what management it can best deliver, not from social sensitivity, obviously, but from the economic point of view. But people who have nothing to do with market, production, entrepreneurship, work, everyday life do not know. That's why they bring such atrocities. It is worth wondering that in the past few days they were blaming and slandering even GSEE. "But the GSC agrees," he says. Provocats and slander. I heard at the ERT today the Secretary-General of the GFCM, who, having referred to what I said, had some positive arrangements prepared by Mr Brutsis, was a catalyst for the Hatzidakis arrangements. He was a catapult to undermining the eighth, to impose unilateral overworking, to attack the young workers who are waiting to work, to find a place in the sun. And that's a lie! They tried to get out of here. You're falling apart, too! Mr. Undersecretary, you described our question as conspiracy if the delay in incorporating the directives could be associated with the conversion of convertible bonds and the increase in share capital in Piraeus. In reply to this question, you have given us a character. However, the bill was delayed. It is also mentioned by the Association of Greek Banks in the written memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some time, Madam President. We note that the rapporteur has already tabled two documents which are telling the truth, but with your signature, which you cannot deny. On 28 June 2020, the Committee was to conclude. She was delayed and a few weeks later she delivered her finding. Why the drawers? And in any case, now that you say it's not related, you're telling the truth. Of course it doesn't. After the recapitulation, the process took place. It's not about the bill. You're right, you're saying it today. But there was. We're asking for answers. We are not conspiracists, nor are we denounce anyone. But is there a gift of EUR 236 billion, yes or no? He gave the Greek State another 345 and his participation rate of 61% -34% has fallen to 27%, yes or no? Give me answers. Do we have moves in the third month, the critical, on the basis of internal information from the big executives, on the top, of the bank with a sale of about 700 thousand shares worth at least 0.5 million - a person - when the rest of the shareholders saw the value of their own shares falling apart? Give answers! You told us and you were sad at the behaviour of the President of the Association of Greek Banks who did not come, but sent you a memorandum. You're upset. Well, that attitude is when politics is graceful to them. You referred to the Recovery Fund in all four billion and to the new production model. You said well, but half of it is already gone. That's not how it works. The government must be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. Today we need a new state-market-social agreement, to walk the next day, on the day after the pandemic so that Greece, instead of experiencing backwardness and boiling in its junk, to jump forward, a leap that will ensure social cohesion, a leap that will bring social well-being with human-centered progress, as pandemic has shown us, unfortunately in a dramatic way. But that is what another concept is needed. There is a social and national need. Is the government willing? So far, it seems not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katsotis has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. In 2015, unanimously, the parliament took the place for an independent state of Palestine with the capital of East Jerusalem. Nowadays, these days the state - murderer state of Israel is slaughtering the Palestinians, and of course each party is judged by the position it takes or does not take, but even by the silence we hear here today. Our rapporteur has developed the aspects of the draft law, a draft law that is part of the strategy of supporting capitalist development, the further strengthening of the instrument for financing business groups, the banking system. It is an aid paid by the workers and the people's layers with all the anti-poverty laws, insurance laws, taxation, continuous rafts, auctions, kneeling the working people's family, increasing the deadlock, insecurity, uncertainty in total, increasing poverty and impoverishment. Your policy, like the previous ones, is serving the fight for the needs of the business groups in capitalist development. Today the New Democracy ends it. He's giving it all up and out. In the face of the profits of the large banking groups, the shielding of their power, you do not account for anything and you do not hesitate to apply the most brutal forms of exploitation. You are crushing everything that stands in the way of business groups and their profitability. The Special Secretary for Labour, the curator, BSE and other employers' organizations, yesterday at the press conference, caused an anger, anger, which must not only be expressed with disgusts that are not heard, but also with a physical presence in the mobilisations organized by the trade unions. The enemies of workers' rights and racing, business groups and their political staff are not restrained. The bill as it was presented is worse than what they were going through so far. Hatzidakis, the eight-hour necrotheter, is making jokes in the workers' eyes when he says that he is protecting the eighth hour, but the employer will be able to employ the worker ten hours without additional pay, up to thirteen hours, as provided for in the European Union directive. The European Union, a collective expressionist of business and monopoly groups, with its directives and policy, as well as with today's directive, supports precisely their capital and their needs. The government with the bill gives new powerful weapons next to what was before and the previous PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, governments. It suits the craziest dreams of magnanimity. Any protection of the conditions of pay and work for workers shall be abolished. It makes employers and workers working in their hands all the time, as much as they need them, to increase unpaid work. He generalizes the work on Sundays almost throughout the branches at the same time as he invokes the four-day work, the parental benefits and the rights of mothers, giving the workers on Fridays, frees Sunday work, grabs the only day of rest of each working folk family. It increases the overtime ceiling by up to 50%, giving an extra incentive to businesses instead of new jobs, to rip off by overworking and over-exploiting workers. In order for the working guerilla to be implemented in practice, it seeks a strong blow to the freedoms of trade and to the struggles of workers. It seeks to ban the formal and essentially the nature of the trade union organisation itself and the right to strike on suffocating terms and conditions by converting security staff - as it says - to a minimum guaranteed service. You want the strike to be symbolic, not to pressure the employer from being forced to meet demands. Otherwise, what do you think? You say the strike is a constitutionally guaranteed right. Air words! This serves the generalized online fresco of unions and the pogrom that has been launched against any racing trade union activity. This is also served by the abolition of the Labour Inspectorate. You are downgrading the control mechanisms and you are talking about an independent authority. You give the trademark to the employer to confuse everything, as there will be no political accountable. The independent authority will be fully dependent on the capital and its needs, implement the policy of reducing the price of the labour force by applying all the anti-labour regulations, guide employers to implement all best practices, and take out profits on the one hand and exploitation on the other. The independent authority will, of course, be a person of confidence determined to implement the whole anti-gauge. Perhaps Scortso will later take this role, after completing the work he had undertaken, when he moved from a BSE director to a minister of the Prime Minister. Maybe. Unless they do Mr. Brutsi. I don't know. Mr Brutsi does not accept this position. So Mr Hatzidakis causes what is contained in the abortion bill. He's been trying to present it as a modern, free choice, he says, of the worker, while he's been from the 19th century! That's where the bill comes from, and these arrangements bring, 19th-century! These working, pay and life conditions for the workers and the people are envisioned, gentlemen of the New Democracy. The worker will be free, he says, to choose the tenth or dismissal. It will be under a regime of constant pressure and extortion in order to accept all modern forms and mechanisms of exploitation. This will be his only free choice. The Euro-Union Minister, in order to substantiate the necessity of overturning, invokes the European Union's directives and what the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA have signed in recent years. Innocent of blood is none of you, no part of capital! In the same strategy move, the same road map you have, with whatever zig zag. This does not, however, acquittal or alter the deeply anti-government nature of this bill that the Minister of Labour made public yesterday. On the other hand, it confirms the reactionary nature of the European Union and the attack it is organising with the willing forces of the urban classes of the Member States. These are the best practices of the European Union, the claims of capital. These were served by the previous governments in their policy. These are coming to take off the current New Democracy government. In the face of this war which the government has declared, the European Union and capital in the working class one is the road, the struggle, to overthrow the anti-Fraud, to abolish all anti-Fraud laws, to actually claim modern rights, a fixed daily seven-hour, five-day, thirty-five hours, more life. Hope is on the way to overthrow, to mass, unified, class struggle. In a class society, class struggle is the only response to social peace and unity that all of you say and seek. Submission, workers’ compromise, oppressed people’s forces do not respond to the barbarity and rotting of the system you are serving. No one can bend the head, not claim the life that they deserve. The river won't come back. We call on this Step forward of every worker, regardless of colour, party, religion, to mass universal participation in the rally this afternoon at the Propylaea at 19.00 p.m. and then to any other forms of struggle that trade unions decide in the next few days, so as not to submit the bill - abortion, to abolish all the anti-government and reactionary laws, which provide for flexible forms of work, anti-laboratory regulations and others, and to put the needs of workers and the people on the agenda, such as the reinstatement of collective agreements, the reduction of working time, the increase in pay. Our party gives all its forces to counterattack the working people's movement. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Foreign Minister has the floor, Mr Vlasis, to make a position on his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u73	Good evening, Madam President. This amendment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reconstitutes the Consulate General of Greece, based in Benghazi, Libya, and provides for the composition of his staff and identifies his geographical area. As far as this amendment is concerned, we believe that the reasons are clear, political, economic, cultural, that impose the immediate, legislative, reconstituting and reopening of the Benghazi consulate in order to ensure the rights and interests of our country in the region. We are ambitious to be the first consulate of a European country that is going to work in the country after 2011, and we believe that the re-recommendation will make a significant contribution to strengthening our bilateral cooperation in all areas, with the culmination of such cooperation in the field of economic and trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Mylonakis now has the floor from the Greek Solution and immediately after Mr Tsakalotos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that two years have passed the country's governance from New Democracy and I think failure at all levels is a fact. You have to admit that thing. You'll admit it once, because you're falling apart. You're falling apart day after day. When you go out and take a walk, take the public transport - after all, according to the Prime Minister, does not the coronary get too stuck there - do you also take a walk on the market and ask: "Do you have any problem with what we two years have done for the economy?". Everyone will tell you that you continued SYRIZA's tactic. What they left, and they hadn't burned it, you burned it. Two directives on the financial system. So, does the financial system still not have a good protection after recapitalisations of over 40 billion? He doesn't. Do we have to give the Greek citizen's property? From tomorrow, May 14th, the auctions begin freely. From June 1, the auctions of those in debt in the pandemic will also begin. You haven't taken any place on it. You leave the Greek family, the Greek household is completely humiliated. People will lose their homes electronically and you will be fine, you will feed the media and you will tell them: "Say we are the best. Moses passes you on the Promised Land and you have no problem." And to do that, you come to legalize what you were accusing of, the basil, the hashishi, to sleep on the Greek people. And yesterday Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development, took the opportunity to tell us that he was doing so, since the UN has legalised it. So the whole world, because it sees that the rampant gains from the taxes of chaos, the basilos are many, says to you, "We don't legalize it, we can move it freely, so we can also take the taxes?" You come to the Greek people now that it's pharmaceutical, she says, cannabis. Yes, science has waited for hashish for so many years and hadn't accomplished it. And why now and not all these years? To sleep the world. But Mr Karanikas has to be a national hero. National day for Mr. Karanika, since Mr. Georgiadis has honoured him, after he apologized to him, he said to him that "you are the only one, the first to fight..."! Mr. Papadimitriou, I remember you at "SKAI", now you will also, I see you in front of me, because I don't see Yannis Loverdos who trial comedy, tragedy and comedy, go out to "BLUE SKY" then and say "It's possible there in SYRIZA and Maximou, all day you drink a balm, you smoke and you want to spend what you're investing!" Then you all said 'no'. Now, Mr. Babis Papadimitriou, I see you here, what are you going to say? Will you say that this investment is good, that it will save Greece? That's right, so we can sleep on the Greek people. And Mr Possalte comes out as well - to convey it to him what he said then, after defending the position of the New Democracy, because he is a New Democracy - and now he says, Minister Tsakalote, that he did so, he says, for electoral reasons. So the New Democracy admits, Minister, that what it said to the Greek people was lying, it was a story and it did it to get the vote. The same as Skopje, with northern Macedonia that you were then dating as Macedonians, the same as all the issues. So you came to power and instead of making five things you ruined everything. I have heard Mr Villiard who deals with economics, because he is an economist, saying that at the moment public and private debt is worth $500 billion, if I am not mistaken, that is, half a trillion. When we entered the Memorandum, our foreign debt was about 299 billion, right? And today is 374 billion. We had done this mess in the small and medium-sized then, to the so-called investors who people thought we were going to do the PSI, that we'd invest them, we'd eat the money, we'd eat the money from the insurance funds, they'd collapse the insurance funds, and now, Minister, what's going on? Now we're going fine, the economy says, it's up. What rise does the world have to eat and lose home soon? And there is also Mr Hatzidakis, who is a professional politician, who is an introductory killer. Anyone who wants to clean up something puts Hajidakis. He's an expert on the man. You want "OLYMPIAKI"? Now "AEGEAN" is a profitable company, and when it's not profitable, we give it some millions to get it straight. OLYMPIAKI, which all parties would go for free and bring their "strategists" on one side of the world to the other, to vote and no one would pay, entered the poorer girl. We sold her out, so we lose everything. The same goes for PPC, the same happens everywhere. And this man of special missions is called Kostis Hadjidakis. First MP is in New Democracy. Rejoice the neo-democrats to continue to vote for him! The investments you make of the bucket, despite what you've been saying, will cost you those too, because people can't see them. And now we're going to civilian security. Instead of New Democracy coming in and getting its security system better, so Toskas used to say that when your robber gets home, that's what New Democracy said, that's what the whole world was saying, that's what the whole world was saying to go back on the other side so it won't clean you up, to do what you're sleeping. But the man was sleeping when the robbers walked into his house in the Sweet Waters in my area. I have made two letters and two questions to the Minister of Civil Protection about the situation in the Greek Police in East Attica. The unarmed area is and I believe that all the areas not only of Attica but also of all Greece in the same situation are. People are being murdered in cold blood at noon. I remind you of Giolia, who still hasn't been found by the killers, I remind Karaivaz of the attempt against Chios, and he almost killed him, I remind him of the businessman in Zakynthos. Every day you robbed, robbed. The police are complaining, they say, "One and two times we've caught a robber, and we've caught him again." So what do people do? But the political leadership has not realised that the policeman is not going to cut three hundred euro calls because the grandfather's mask fell under the nose. It's to get out and be next to the civilian. And I call on the Greek Police, her Chief, because no matter what we say to the political leadership of Jamafou and, above all, Chrysochoidis, rid the horse. Is he, of course, a man who has asked for the vote of the Greek people? Oh, no. And he from PASOK moved to New Democracy. The Semitic PASOK today governs Greece. That's the job. So I tell the Chief of the Greek Police to recover, train his staff and operate state security. There's no state security. Do you realize that there is no state security? The information that the Greek police need to get, the heart of the Greek Police, for those who don't understand it, is security. So if those who were the old men, the men of security, are gone, they are retired and have not been replaced by others who are experienced - the security system, you know, has the informants, it has many things - so that there is no follow-up, then blindly the Greek Police goes. And thankfully, there are some who are trained by technical means and we get no robbers, or we wouldn't catch anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Comrade, please slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u77	I would like to say by closing down, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance - for the penalties under the Criminal Code. We have said since the first day that we entered here that what we should always think is a deterrence. If there's no deterrence, the hunter will follow the crime, he'll always be after the criminal, he'll be chasing the criminal. And what's a deterrent? It's the fear of every robber who gets into a house to steal, who's thinking of murdering, that if they arrest him-- who's gonna arrest him-- he's gonna stay in prison for the rest of his life. I join the opinion of the President, Mr Velopoulos, personally - but they are our personal views - that the death penalty must be reinstated at some point in the brutal crimes. But as it stands now, it is not too late to go to an amendment, to a change in the legislation, gentlemen of the New Democracy, which the Criminal Code will expressly and unequivocally provide life for the murders, for the heinous crimes in general. When we call life a bond, it means never see the light of the sun again, whoever is murdered. It's over and out. There's no contempt for these people. They're criminals, they're common scumbags. They have to go to jail and die in prison. If everyone understands that, then crime will be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u79	Now I'm finishing up with this. Can I tell you something else? Take the banks. Now you hear bank robbery?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Comrade, please. You've gone far beyond time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, what I have to say is to wish all of what is happening in Jerusalem, at a time when Jerusalem, between the Israelis and the Palestinians, at some point, stop killings. We need to see what things are really like. Guys have both children, and the civilians have both civilians and civilians. Hamas cannot fly a thousand fifty-five missiles and block Iron Dome, Israel's security system, eight hundred fifty. That's not a situation, it's terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we must make it clear that your time is seven minutes. There is more than a relative tolerance, but we cannot get over time that much. Please don't embarrass me. Mr Chakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. In two days, on May 15, the Arab world remembers Nakba, the great destruction of 1948 when some had land and the other day had no land, they had no fields, they had nothing. For how history changed after that to the worst you can see by looking at maps, maps of '48, map of '67 and later maps showing the shrinking of the Palestinian land. This new episode from Hamas didn't start. The new episode began when Israel wanted to take more homes from the capital, from the Arabs. We of SYRIZA understand that there are geostrategic issues, alliances, interests, but there is justice. There is solidarity too, there is a people who have suffered as much as anyone. We cannot talk about it and have channels to tell us that at best they are two sides fighting with each other and they must show some modesty. The last time this happened, in 2014, seventy Israelis were killed and two thousand Palestinians killed. We all want this not to happen again, but we also need justice. And the Greek Government, with the support of the media, was unable to have the courage to express even a word about this people. There's another two days until Nuckba's memory that you might change that. But you do not want to discuss almost any matter. What we have understood, Minister, and it is a pity that you are here and not another Minister - is that the government does not want a debate. The main government and its supporters are the opposition to opposition. Systemically there are attacks on our executives, so that there can be no serious discussion in this area. You don't have a conversation anywhere. The Recovery Fund? A committee, four committees that we were here on this serious issue that will commit us for the next few years? Neither society nor institutions nor parliament. We're done within four to five hours. And instead, we have the attacks. She says Mrs Ahtsoglou that the crisis creates opportunities. What is a crisis, ladies and gentlemen? Isn't that something that contradicts a system, that everything's not going well? I imagine that if there were no contradictions and if things didn't go well, there wouldn't be a crisis. So it is in this crisis that these contradictions are about how you solve them, in what direction. We were told by the Minister, Mr Stavrou, with a spot for Mrs Ahtsoglu, who said that we want her to be normal. Is that the point? Is this the serious debate to be held in the Greek Parliament? The fact that we want regularity or what regularity do we want? There will be differences, economic considerations, ideological values. But to make this debate, not end the debate, with an attack on a SYRIZA official, as if nothing has happened in this crisis, as if we do not understand that we all need to rethink our values and our visas in this crisis. Is health and public health more important than we thought before or isn't it? Was the public sector important, as far as it was able to reduce the impact of the crisis, or was it not? Should we review the relationship between tax reductions and expenditure increases, or does this not need to be discussed at all? And you don't need to have studied analytical philosophy to understand that the proposal 'crisis creates an opportunity' has nothing to do with the proposal that we're seeking 'crisis', which is what you're trying to pass, so there's no discussion. As the New Democracy does not think the crisis is an opportunity, it does not go through all the bills in an anti-democratic manner. I've told you many times. This is your big chance. With pandemic you limit the ability to resist, which is a body of democracy, and at the same time you legislate. Everything can be opened, universities can't open in this place. There's something about the universities, so you can pass the bills you want. And not to be able to discuss labour seriously. He says Mr. Brutsis: "Will SYRIZA talk about the work that made mass redundancies?" That's what you said this morning. And I found your Twitter January 17, when you didn't want a conversation then. What did you say the January 17? "There are two reasons why SYRIZA did not close the assessment and will cost us many billions of the trade union law and the unacceptable veto of the Minister for redundancies." What did you mean then? "Support us against the IMF not to give in"? I don't think this comes out of tweet. From the tweet comes that: “Sign what the IMF says to close the review, so that billions are not lost.” Is that really what you want to tell us? That we wanted to create problems in the trade union movement, in industrial relations on our own? Of course, we made concessions because we had the revolver on the top, but you cannot say not to talk about it, because then we made a compromise. It's not a way to talk about him. And a conversation about the JRC that likes to say "the Brutsi-Achtsoglou Law". Of course we also made a second retreat for 50% quorum in the primary trade unions, not at the Athens Labour Centre or at GSEE. 50% of those attending, not to make the strike, those attending to discuss it. It was a small retreat. But that is not why, when it becomes what is done, the New Democracy accepts all the things that the IMF told us and more that the IMF did not ask for. In the bill before us Mr Hatzidakis has much more than that. And now you say that because we voted 50% to make a strike, and only at the primary level, can we not alleviate that this is more important than uniting the world of work to bring that law down, never applying this law? I think they are disparate things, things that you need to think about in your political strategy how we go forward and what hope we give to this world. And I think you understand it slowly, and I hope we work together against this bill. Another attack. Of course, Mr Alexiadis supported himself - I do not need to say too much - in a very good way. They said - Mrs Peloni, I do not remember if she was another spokesman and all the channels - 'new taxes dream of Mr Alexiadis'. So in this crisis, there's no need for any discussion to tell us that something might have changed after this crisis? Don't you see any reason to discuss the mixture on the tax side and some of the costs? I don't even know why Mr. Stagioras came to the House today, Minister. He could have sent Mr. Vesiropoulos. He only talked here about taxation. I, in the macro-economics I know that your Ministry - and before us - has the expenditure, has the taxes and the revenue. Have we learned nothing from this economic crisis about how we should support the health system? Haven't we learned anything that we should support education? In other words, we do not think that we should also see taxation, how can revenue help us fund these important and other things? And you bring a bill - he told us about amendments to this bill - which is as if nothing had changed. So again the big part, as Mr Alexiadis explained, goes to the richest, as if you believed in the trickle-down, that there will be growth, we will give money to the rich, that investment will be made. You know that economic studies prove that after forty-five there is no correlation between tax reductions, either company profits or income tax and growth. None. They have done economists and are trying to find - your economists, your economic climate - a correlation, that if we reduce taxes to the rich, whether on profits or on high income levels, this will create growth. No correlation exists. It just creates the inequality we see. But you don't want a conversation. With a conversation that a press spokesman will say, Alexiadis and so SYRIZA will bring us more taxes, short-circuit the whole debate, and there is no need to discuss what has always been separated from the Left and the Right. Obviously, we want more collective consumption than you want more private consumption. This, however, is also a debate about how it affects the economy, employment and how it affects people's lives. But we have the SCAI, which I see Mr Papadimitriou, with one word, ends this and we do not have to say anything. We need more taxes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes. I won't have any second. The draft law you bring about the financial system is to stabilise the financial system. And to be honest with the Greek people, it is complicated and very difficult to understand exactly what is happening in various areas. I think we've all understood this difficulty. It is something that can be criticised, but criticism is essentially about the context in which this bill exists, this directive clarifies a number of things. So whether or not you will support it is in relation to your initial position, if it is in the right direction, to various foundations of regulation and supervision of the financial system. As our rapporteur has said, however, the main question is not that. Of course, it is a necessary condition for the financial system to function firmly - and I think you can hear that argument, Minister - but what we are doing above is basically how it finances the real economy. That's what we need to talk about. And the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement said so too, other speakers from all sides of Parliament said that we have a problem here. We have a problem with some liquidity coming from the European Union and it does not go where we would like, and you and I do. That would not be so different, i.e. it would be a differentiating point, I mean, and we should see how we deal with it. A debate should be held, Minister, on how to deal with this. In order to do so, however, you must also change your position with regard to Members and to society and accept that it cannot with chips and with a line in social media answer all very important questions. You have avoided it and continue to avoid it and you will pay it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Babis Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Hetas will speak from the Greek Solution. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Chakatte, do me a favor and sit down. Madam President, in order not to take the floor on staff, I would like to clarify something to you, because you often say it, and to those who use it. I will close, in a couple of years, I have left SCAI. I've never contacted any manager, either press or staff. There are issues of principle which at least are respected for me. It may not be to you, because you communicate freely - I imagine - with your party capacity, the mentor, every time something needs to be done with some journalists of the information media that are committed to you. There are some principles to me, which I am not in breach of. Madam President, thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much for making this move and taking advantage of your long experience in communities, to bring in a bill which repeats something that we often forget about in our political practice and administrative practice. Greece needs to follow good practices, it needs to follow things that are tested, unfortunately, in other states before us and bring them here and apply them for two reasons. Firstly, because they are good and have a good effect on our people, on our economy, on society. Secondly, because they recognize those who want to work here, bring their funds here that the environment is familiar, they already know how it works and, therefore, they will come easier and faster. If these two things aren't enough to be able to take the next step, which is at least five to six years... And unfortunately for you, Mr Tsakalotes, you will need to consider how important it will be to continue in the next four years the governance of this place by the present majority and with Prime Minister Mitsotakis, so that we can conclude this. Mr Tsakalotes, you have personal responsibilities for what happened in the years you were Minister, either at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or, of course, in the Ministry of Finance. I've never heard you make a little self-critic. I imagine the reason is that any self-criticism you do will be critical of Mr. Tsipras and of the leadership. This example will also be used in the other issue raised by my dear colleague, Mr Mylonis, on the issue of cannabis medication. I, Mr. Mylonakis, had taken a stand against New Democracy, for then I welcomed the absolute freedom enjoyed by the press in Greece, thank God. I said then that cannabis medication is a good practice. And because I had, unfortunately, experiences from close people to me, how other difficult moments in their lives and other problems in life, I know that movement is right. So it's courageous politics, which the party has it. I have to admit that now that I am involved in the life of this party. That is what Mr Georgiadis said, and he did it well. The only observation I would have to make is that Mr. Karanicas did not do his job well. It did not do that, which Mr Tsipras had agreed to, so that there could be a framework in Greece, which could allow exports, Mr Tsakalotes, among other things, - you know, I suppose - and in the area that you mentioned quite rightly. In what you said - I think - we will almost entirely agree. The rest I leave to your imagination, and here we are talking about it. So I come to the point that we are discussing today to say that the issue with the banks is important, in addition to what Mr Zavvos and the government are proposing, for a very simple reason. I hope that SYRIZA will change its mind and finally vote for it. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Are you finally voting for it? Excuse me, I take it back. I wasn't well informed. I also hope that there will be a change in your attitude to a crucial issue. Why do we want the banks to get out of hand with the problems we have? Because the banks do not belong to the bankers or should not belong to the Greek people, as we have indirectly become the case at the moment. Banks must manage this commodity in a strict and fair way, which they handle, money. To do this, they must come quickly to an end in cases where they are involved. The involvement is usually because a businessman didn't make it. However, this should not be an obstacle to repeating its efforts. A business mind will always be good, if we give him the opportunity to get back into the market, try again. Here we have banks, which once you don't have any assets that you have inherited from your parents in some way, once you don't have enough money to put collateral - guarantee, i.e. if you need to be involved in your business plan, the bank currently tells you "no". It does not say 'no' to everyone, thankfully. We have many and very good companies, which do not in large measure need the banks. However, we have a lot more good companies, which have been involved at the moment in this disaster that has been caused in recent years and which - I call on you at least at the last minute, Mr Tsakalote - to lift it to the extent that it is possible, by removing your objection to the implementation of the law that we voted on just before Christmas Days and, therefore, to give people the opportunity to get through quickly, when they do not go well and to be able to enter business life again. We should be happy to discuss what you want on the issues of the personal loans of housingers, and if there is an improvement that you think can be done, we should do it. But you all know very well in this Chamber that there are too many cases of people covered by the laws of Katseli abusively, because they have their property in a company in fact, while it is theirs, and their family uses it, or they have assets that are sufficient to cover their position. Shouldn't we improve that? In short, I think it is time to move forward, Minister, with the vote I see broadly accepted of this legislation, but also with something else, with the rapid start of the process of reintroduction of the economy into normality. Regularity will always be what serves people. From there on, I leave political interpretations, such as the one Mrs Ahtsoglou has done, unfortunately. But I will forgive her because she does not have sufficient experience of political work to understand that normality is what is lacking in Greeks today more than bread itself, and that is why I will forgive her. I'm guessing on the left there's nothing different than the whole country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u86	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Today we have learned another interpretation - where is Mr Papadimitriou? Is he gone? - that the fucker's called political courage. The fucking papa, the turbulence, is translated into political courage. We've learned that, too. We baptised the troika in institutions to reconstruct now into political courage. That's what we call the fucking boobs. At least now have the political courage to say that we were wrong at the time. What do you mean, political courage? It's a nice word. I mean, I think, Mr. Papademitriou, Mr. Georgiadis, that in the Olympic Games you would definitely take the gold medal in the instrumental gymnastics. There's no way. Such a turbulence? Unless it's about getting the medals back from Ioannis Melissanidis to the instrumental gymnastics and saying he's a world champion of political courage and not a resuscitation. That's how we'll understand a lot. Mr. Zabwe, I'd like to ask you something. What are you doing, first? It's good to see you, and I wish you many years. Mr. Latsis, did the Latsis Group pay EUR 315 million? We ask, and we ask again, and we do not get an answer. It is to pay the Latsis Group for the Greek 315m euros. Did he pay? Because this money had been put into the 2020 budget. Nobody saw them. They entered the first quarter of 2021. Nobody saw them. You said about May. We have May. We want you to answer us today - we really have it - if the Latsis Group paid EUR 315 million to the Greek State. We want to know if there's been a job or it didn't happen. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as the President of the Greek Solution said earlier this morning, we are very pleased to have the proposal for a law tabled today by the Greek Solution on arms. It's a huge matter. And you know what? I will go into this matter and I will tell you - and it has been distributed and will be given to the press everywhere, and I hope it will also give the press the necessary basis, if you will, and the press will do so today - that it is very hypocritical, you know, that I see you on the panels, on the windows, on the news, on the show, on the holidays - then a celebration to cry with crocodile tears and now to speak about tightening the sentences and changing the Penal Code, since once again in the wilderness of that country, we had to see another crime, something more bad to do. Because what we have been calling in this Parliament two years ago to tighten up the penalties, change the Penal Code, for you they imagined abnormal. Now you're coming back to our words. We're not tough. We are reasonable and you must understand that, because if this man had the right, being and trained, to have for his home only, a weapon to use it, when and in case these criminals enter and want to rape your child, to kill your child, to rape or kill your daughter or yourself, to be able to defend yourself, because, unfortunately, in our country there is a constant increase in crime and imported and domestic. Let's talk about it. So citizens either in the urban centres or in the province feel abandoned and are in their luck, they are the raids of the criminals, they are the raids of the crimes. And what do we say now? You are now talking more about a change in the Criminal Code after a celebration, and we were shouting that it must be done. But also the Criminal Code must change, change, change properly. The President said so, Antonis Mylonakis said so, we have all said it, and I will say it: When we say life, we mean life. We mean neither two fifths nor three fifths or four fifths or nothing. Life is life for these heinous crimes, and the case is over. I would like to ask another question, because you know very well that too many Greek citizens, in order to protect themselves, have weapons. No one knows how much it is because the weapons are not registered in Greece. That's a huge problem. We have to get our heads off that we have like the ostrich in the sand and face reality. The reality says one in ten Greeks has a gun. Nobody knows how much it is or who it is or who it is. However, one out of ten, according to assessments by officers of the State Security Directorate of the Hellenic Police Headquarters, has a weapon. I don't say it in my head. And we're not talking about air guns, we're talking about shotguns, revolvers, kalashnikovs, and even ouzi. The police say that. And for all these illegal weapons there is a mist. We don't know what's going on. Their number, according to police estimates again, reaches one million right now. It's black, undeclared weapons. It's a million. There are people who want to defend their family and their property and buy them that way. There are such weapons, black, illegal. So why not train them? Why don't we record them? Why shouldn't there be a class in this matter? I don't think anyone should turn around on the streets. For Christ's sake! However, an educated citizen is a useful citizen, a citizen who knows that he will have the gun in his home, when the time comes - a hoof - to be able to defend his family. We said 'law and order everywhere'. That's what the country wants and nothing more. Law and order with citizens trained. Democracy has nothing to fear from active citizens. One more thing I want to say is to propose. There are lists. The Greek Police have lists in their hands that must be used and we are now calling on it from Stepa to use all the bad data lists, the foreigners who have definitely entered our country and know who they are. Deporting all the criminals now from the country. That is our proposal: Deportation of all evildoers. The police know, they got lists of them all. Let him use them, let him locate them and deport them from the country. No citizen wants this information between him. The other one was caught a hundred times and he was drinking coffee in Glyfada. He's been caught a hundred times. He's coming in, he's coming in, he's coming in. Put your records, write your papers, get in two days, go out on the third day. That's not how it works. That's not really how it's done. If you don't break eggs, omelet doesn't make the world, Greek citizens, Greeks and Greeks feel unprotected. The proposal for a law, therefore, of the Greek Solution for the amendment of the legal framework on arms ownership was formally tabled today by our President in the Greek Parliament. And I would like to end, Madam President, with two more issues. I don't know, I said before about the political courage. This shit is called political courage now, that's what it's called. Is the same political courage to assume, Mr. Brutsi, that either an asshole or a political courage is Mr. Zaev's provocative visit today and you took him to Maximus? Not even Mr. Tsipras does that. What's that called now? Exploration or political courage, which you took from your hand and slapping to Greece and you welcomed today the Prime Minister of False Macedonia? Why do you not need him as rapporteur? I say, since he is here, make him a proposal to use him as rapporteur in the agreements that are now on the table in the Skopje protocols. Because I hear you're in a very difficult position and you can't find a rapporteur for these protocols unless you've buried them in the drawers. Could you also ask Mr Zaev for the rapporteur? And mistakes are mistakes and mistakes must be paid. Aron the Ministry of Culture took back the great gave that he made for the recognition of ethnic minorities a moment ago for a Macedonian minority in Greece. You got it back. And? Did you do it? That's why we're telling you you're the same. Madam President, I would like to close with a statement by Mrs Peloni. What does it mean, Mrs Peloni - why don't you tell the world, so we say that we are against the mandatory vaccination - that 'it is too early to talk about the privileges of vaccinated women'? He didn't say there would be no privileges of vaccinated women. "It's early," he says. So sooner or later we'll be talking about vaccinated privileges. That's what you're saying. You're splitting society back into two! Any attempt to get privileges on our vaccinated fellow citizens creates two speed citizens. It's over and over! The non-mandatoryness of the vaccine - we say again, the non-mandatoryness of the vaccine - for the coronary and the principle of equality among Greek citizens are values which are unnegotiable for our democratic citizens. It's over and over! And it's brutal blackmail the reason for the child's vaccination in return for going to school. So children should only be free personal will by means of their guardians, of course, with informed consent. I conclude, Madam President, with the proposal of the President of the Greek Solution, by Mr. Velopoulos, who once again calls for the immediate intake of Myrtus' mother, Mrs. Maria Kotratsos, with an indefinite contract of time from the Greek Parliament, as well as the reimbursement of the treatment, rehabilitation and care of Myrtus from Parliament's budget! It's the least the state can do toward a family climbing a real Golgotha. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Madam President. The government's main argument, after yesterday's announcements, is that in Greece we have an outdated working bill. So because the law we have is old, let's go get a new one, but it's worse! Am I the only one saying this, where am I at SYRIZA? Oh, no! The whole Opposition says so. All the parties with their announcements came out, protested and reported yesterday's announcements. Superman Mr. Hatzidakis is on a new mission. He's trying to impose what they didn't dare in the hardest memorial years. It's dropping the eight. It reduces wages. It establishes individual contracts. It catastrophics collective bargaining. It brings unpaid or subpaid, in relation to the current data, overtime and leads to uncontrolled redundancies. The Mitsotakis Government continues to dismantle the control mechanisms and encourages infraction on the labour market. There is an unprecedented attack on trade union freedoms and the right to strike. He puts every employee and his employer as equivalent interlocutors. This is the definition of class division. Of course, the provisions on violence, labour abuse and parental leave are positive. Obviously, no one disagrees with that. But this cannot hide the core of the bill, which is the dissolution of industrial relations. Are these the well-paid new jobs that Mr Mitsotakis spoke about in the election? Is that what he meant? More work, less pay, feel that the employer and the employee have the same power at a table? What's going on in the rest of the world? In the United States, they target full-time employment. They're raising the minimum wage. Here, in Greece, the New Democracy told us that in the United States it would vote John Biden. The other half was ashamed or shoved to say that he would vote for Trump. Can you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, state about Greece from a Chamber of Parliament of the Greeks what the President of the United States of America said days ago? What did President Biden say? That this country had not been built by Wall Street, that the United States was made from the middle class, that public investment is needed, that the middle class will be supported and that these public investments and infrastructures will be paid by the very wealthy. Can you go up to this Step and say that Greece made it the middle class, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, that Greece is not the stock exchange, the "white" collars? Can you say from this step over the next few years? Because it is good now that Mr Stavros says that we have the financial margin and everything. But I would like to see - but I do not think you will be government - both in Greece and in Europe, when we come back to budgetary rules, what the suggestions will be. Because with the deficit-free clause, indeed, there is a budgetary slackness. There the choices will be tough and all the choices you have made and made, and today it is still not in favour of the middle class of the poor and the weak. They are discriminatory in favour of the powerful and the very strong. What could we do? We could see what the progressive government does in Spain. Thirty-two-hour pilot program a week, four days, eight hours. So here's what the possibilities are. Here is what the global debate is. Increase in wages, less hours, more qualitative work. We're in 2021! The last time that positive action was taken in the working framework in Europe was in the late 1990s, with a government of socialist communists in France, who made thirty-five hours, five hours, seven hours in the public sector. And that's what all the right governments have been fighting for so far. Sadly, then, you are a government that lives in your world, a government that came to power with cries, lies, screaming, hypocrisy. Mr. Mitsotakis himself. From there on, everyone in his role. The Prespecies Agreement, which was treacherous, tender, retreat, which did what no one dared in the past, which traded Macedonian pensions, became nationally beneficial! Mr. Zaev from "Kathimerini" informs us how important it is now that the FIR of Northern Macedonia is overseeing Greek F-16! This is Mr Zaev's statement. Today, Mr Mitsotakis, too, has been told in a very good climate. Excellent, excellent! As regards the medicinal cannabis, I saw Mr. Vlasi - he left, too - and listen to what he said from a step of the House: "If Mr. Karanikas wants Greece to do as he has in his mind, an endless lie, we for us and our children will not allow it." It's Minister Vlassis now! Represents Greece. He's managing power! What the Prime Minister himself said: "Every Karanic hired is a fist in the stomach of Greece that works hard." And Mr. Georgiadis comes in 2021 and says from this, Step forward to recognize in the debate Mr. Karanika's positive contribution to the case of the medicinal cannabis, that his presence was positive, that the fact that he fought for this honour - the honor! - and it's something home has to earn and money and relief for patients' pain! Hey, boy, how do some people when they sit in the cabinet chair make themselves mild, nourishable, serious? Didn't Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Vlassi, Mr. Vorides, not know this in 2018? They knew it! But they chose the opposition of the bat, populism! That's what they did! And that's what I call it when I'm SYRIZA? Oh, no! It is said by the journalist, Mr Possalte, who told us yesterday that they did, he says, for voting reasons. And don't tell me that they didn't read international press, don't tell me they weren't talking to the other conservative parties in Europe! That's what they did! They committed a murder of character, made a "Gebelism" and now comes Mr Patellis, appointed Prime Minister's counselor, tell us that we are lazy those who are doing degrees, postgraduate, doctoral! Do you understand what 'excellence' New Democracy represents? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I see an effort from a piece of the press to pass for the Minister of Development that he's his pretext, that he's serious, that he's mature and brave. Oh, no! He's a persecutor! That's the reality! He did the same in 2008, when he was in the People's Orthodox Alert for the former Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis, for Mrs Bakoyannis, for the New Democracy, for Mr Samaras. He doesn't mind this part of the Right in Greece! That's the part of the right! Hypocrites and "all for the chair"! That's it! So liars! Not just liars, but liars with headlines for the Prespecies Agreement. Here we are, then, who are the'shooters', so here we are, who are the'shore-eaters'! I expect you to finally bring the protocols for cooperation with North Macedonia in the next few weeks. We are here and we will strip this irresponsible and the people will understand who rule him, what they say and what they believe. And very soon the way you became in power, the screams, the lies and the screams will no longer be able to support you for the next day. People are watching, they know, and they're watching. Mr Mitsotakis - and I am closing with this, Madam President, and thank you - said for us that you can make fun of a few for a while or a few. You can't make fun of everyone forever. This is particularly true of the way you have been dominated. So we will not be like you, we are making a responsible and serious opposition, because we want to be a responsible and serious progressive government tomorrow. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am succeeding in the step by a respectable colleague, Mr Constantine Zachariadis, whom I honour, appreciate his morality, but also his political formation and his political education. Mr. Zachariadis, I think you're wronging yourself. The way you spoke just before the Minister for Development is unacceptable. For Mr Adoni Georgiadis personally I believe that he is a politically integrated, moral, honest and decent man and in his political capacity. And if you give him up today for something that he is called political courage and political courage, that is to review a point of view, in which you were wrongly placed in another period, that is correct and not something you must criticise him for. I think that Adonis Georgiades has shown indisputably all these years how politically brave and courageous and courageous it is to say things with their name on the basis of truth and what he considers politically correct and correct for the country and country. And that's what he did the other day with his position on the drug cannabis issue. He reviewed, as Minister of Development, a position because, looking at this issue, he saw that there are other parameters that show the benefit of this legislative initiative, which needs to be improved in order to be more effective. But you have to be careful about SYRIZA, because other SYRIZA colleagues have been placed on this issue, but also from other parties. But I'm going a little bit to SYRIZA and connecting it to the work mentioned a few Members of the SYRIZA. How can we say that it is politically honest, courageous or in the absence of courage and hypocrisy? Do you remember what you said in 2013 and 2014 about raising the minimum wage to 750 euros with a law, with an article abolishing the memos? Do you remember that when I brought in here the law on minimum wage formation, Law No 4172/2013, the Brutsi Act, as you call it today - the JRC calls it Brutsi - Ahtsioglou Law - left the Chamber? This was done, when this law was passed, by Law No 4172/2013 which, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in a correct, economically and honest manner, the minimum wage calculation. And SYRIZA four years later, in 2019, came to this Chamber and instead of admitting the correctness of the law, it brought him back, applauded by Mr. Tsipras and all the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, changing only its time horizon. And you didn't have the courage to admit the big mistake you made! This is called political hypocrisy and not what Adonis Georgiadis did. Because in politics we have to say things the right way, as I did in insurance, something I said, Mr Zachariadis. I said this when the position of the Minister of Labour was translated. As I did in 2012, so I did in 2019. I kept everything good from the past, I made it, I improved it, and I raised it. That also means political continuity. And I now reply directly to insurance, because I consider it very important, and I shall reply to Mr Alexiadis as well. I come, for example, to the word “ECA” which means a single social security institution. You've unified the thirteen funds into three. And as Minister of State with Law 4670/2020, our insurance reform, I have now integrated the three funds into one. So Greece now has only one national insurer, which I named e-ECA. I kept the word EFKA, recognizing the effort you have made, which you have not done in the past, when the hundred and fifty-six funds Mrs Petralia in the New Democracy then did thirteen. And you, along with the whole political system, were all against this rationalisation and the organisation of the insurance system. That's why we need to keep the ball down - sorry for the expression - we need to be careful about our location and have historical memory and compare every time we place ourselves from this Step. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a bill which has developed very nice and excellent in all its dimensions by our rapporteur, Vassilis Ypsilantis. I have nothing more to say. After all, it also has the broadest consensus, which is a good thing. But this is a good question. Two people went through this step, one with his previous capacity as Minister of Finance and my friend Tryphoon Alexiades, and criticised the amendment brought by Christos Stagiras, in the amendment brought by the Government as a whole, by the Ministry of Finance, in something that demonstrates the consistency of speech and work of the Government over the two years. What have we done, Mr Alexiadis, and have you criticised? We are reducing business tax from 28% to 24%, which we have already legislated for, and today we are legislating from 24% to 22%. And you're criticizing and saying it's about big capital? What? You are well aware of tax legislation. 22% is not only about public limited companies, but it is about the EIAs, the statutory companies, the heterogeneous companies, the whole of Greek companies, the middle and the very small ones. Are these the big companies where you say that we are coming today to give or are we in favour of the profits of the large oligopolis? This is a candy that SYRIZA had in the past, and I think that's what you should have changed, I think you should have changed your political speech. We're retiring, we're probably reducing the deposit, 100% to 55% and 100% to 80% of what you've put in, the deposit. And you're criticizing what's breathtaking for all the businesses? And for individual companies on a permanent basis these are tax reductions. And we are coming and expanding for another year, in fact Christos Stakouris does a very great deal of effort to the Ministry of Finance and we are extending the suspension of the trade tax to 2022. Are you against this? In response to a criticism unjust for something very positive for the Greek economy and the Greek taxpayer, you say what we did for pensioners, what we did for the employees, what we did for the free traders. Can I remind you what we did? For the employees, 2 million have reduced insurance contributions. There is also the law extending for 2022 the reduction of insurance contributions. Ten units have reduced insurance contributions, non-wage costs, six to the Samara government, four to the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Do you know what a reduction in insurance contributions means? Power in enterprises to recruit, power in businesses and in the state to reduce incentives for tax evasion, increase in insurance contributions and, most importantly, incentives for recruitment. What did SYRIZA do? He voted against because the reduction in insurance contributions directly leads to an increase in income. Here we were, you voted against the increase in the wages of workers. Two million people who took a small, bigger, bigger increase in their wages and voted against it. That's what you did, Mr. Alexiadis. Or for younger professionals? We have reduced, ladies and gentlemen, from 22% to 9%. Big relief and breath, here's what we did for the free professionals you had punished them with high taxation. And then in insurance, remember? Do you remember these in election with Law4387/2016 that you put up a million and a half farmers, free professionals, scientists to link their income to their insurance payments? Do you remember that? Where did you put a nipple in a million and a half people, the productive part of our economy? And what did we do? With our insurance law we created the free categories by reducing both the tax base and the freelance farmer, who also had a special framework within insurance, but also the scientist, chooses the amount of insurance he wants to pay. This is what we have done for the free professionals and the pensioners you are talking about, we have closed after a long time, making use of the Loverdus - Koutromanou and the Katrugalou law, with L.4670 the insurance issue of our country by 2070, presenting for the first time a proportionate study, creating the e - EFKA that I referred to before and making the digital pension "ATLAS" which is the only solution, the only answer to the last issue that exists in the insurance, called outstanding pensions and their award. That is what we did, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have done, Mr Alexiadis, and I think it is a mistake that you are criticising all of this today. It is good if you do not have something to say not to criticise the positive, but to say your own proposals, which proves to be unrealistic. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] On the wider budgetary issues you have raised, it is well known that a few days before the European Commission's spring forecast for our country was a positive entry. I read: 4.1% growth for 2021.6% growth for 2022. Are you questioning it? In fact, these forecasts come after a very short period of time when the European Commission itself had spoken of 3.5% growth in 2021 and 5% in 2022, that is to say, revise all these forecasts for growth. On the question of unemployment, why are you constantly saying that unemployment is growing? I have heard your rapporteur say that unemployment is increasing, that undeclared work is increasing. You see the evidence, do you read it? Indeed, our country entered a budget adventure, the undeclared work, unemployment, but indeed the policies that have been developed, with 10,50, the strictest fine for labour law in the country, which, as Minister, imposed and turned back at that time for micro-political benefits, combined with the electronic system 'ERGANI', which shielded the electronics system of recruitment and workers' redundancies, began to deviate unemployment. In 2018 it decreased to 19.3%. That's where we received it from you. In 2019, according to ELSTAT data, unemployment has already fallen to 17.3% and 2020 to 16.3%. One thing that is really something that we need to see as a political system as a whole is that the European Commission's forecasts give unemployment to remain at 16.3% for 2021 and just 16.1% for 2022. What does that mean? It means that we need to step up our efforts to improve the increase in recruitment in enterprises, increase incentives. I personally remember the Step forward here, two months Minister, to see with these figures how these Cassandras, which you say over time, are being disproved, when I brought about the abolition of the right reason for dismissal, all the wings of this House, by opposition, were saying that this would launch unemployment. It was September 2019. Is that how it happened? Unemployment went off? And in the pandemic, along with Italy, we are the only countries that have reduced unemployment, two countries throughout the European Union, with our policies, consistently, with the innovative "ERGANI" system that we were paying for the 534, that was possible in the Greek economy and we have kept the businesses alive with the cancellation of redundancies and at the same time the maintenance of jobs that were prioritised for us. That was our policy and world-famous economists, and the European Commission itself praised these policies and said good in Greece for maintaining jobs. Where, then, do you see this whole framework in which you refer to? The working bill - don't rush, it didn't come out in the consultation - once it comes out and see the real prospects, you'll see that everything you say is not there, the five-day is maintained, the weekend is maintained, the eight-hour is maintained, the six-day work is maintained, as provided for by labour law is maintained and remains the basis of the country's labour law. For the JRC, from which I hear a criticism on the issue of the file on trade unions and workers, I brought in September 2019 the law, which opens up at the time - and had to be a state law, the second part to be made in this bill and the Communist Party - which is the definition of the accountability and fairness of the trade union movement as a whole towards workers and employers. Because I do not think that these images that we had seen in the GCC do not satisfy anyone who could not set up its conference, with disagreements, with voices, with fair or unfair objections, do not matter, that those representing the GCC are not legal representatives. This ends. The system is now in one order, and all trade unions and employers' organizations must be in an information system, the 'ERGANIS' system and be aware of it. Meet each other. What scares you at this? The ghosts - trade unions that existed in the past and must be maintained? No way. We are determined to end this forever. Yes to trade unionism, it is health that trade unions are part of democracy, there must be trade unions, but healthy trade unions, the transparent trade union we need to know. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that this bill is passed by the overwhelming majority of Members of all the parties. What SYRIZA is worth is what SYRIZA will do with the special amendment to reduce taxation, extending the suspension of the trade tax and reducing the advance payment. I expect to see your political behaviour and your political attitude. Be careful, because out there is the Greek people, it monitors the credibility and consistency of each party and is placed either in elections or in polling, and this is the final judge. We as a government, as a political body called New Democracy, with our mistakes, with our pathogens over the years, have maintained the worthy system that we have served, the principles and values of this party, a fact that governs many years with holidays, but is distinguished by its consistency, its popularity, its patriotic character, its liberal character. That's where we're weighted, and that's where we're going to stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy has the floor. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I will only confine myself to the bill and the targeted and effective economic policy of the Ministry of Finance and the Government this year and a half of the pandemic. The recapitalisation of the banks was the necessary economic policy over the past decade, following the overall pressure that both financial and private economies accepted. The banking system proved not ready for such a crisis and the state mechanism was forced to support the survival of the banks through their recapitalisation. The European Union has tried to deal with this with Directive 36/2013, which focused on the prudential supervision of credit institutions by setting a strict framework for action. At the same time, the question of the supervision and proper functioning of the participation companies is equally important for the security of trade and the normal economic activity. Over the years, the corrective actions currently being implemented by Directive 878/2019 have made it necessary to improve the approval arrangements for financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies. The new regulations provide for direct supervisory powers for holding companies, the establishment of an intermediate parent company within the European Union, when it comes to groups of third countries, so that these companies can be monitored more easily. Institutions of third countries operating through branches in Greece are required to submit further necessary elements of their activity. There are specific criteria to be met by the proposed buyer for a credit institution controlled by the Bank of Greece, such as its reputation, experience and economic soundness. Credit institutions established in a third country that have branches in Greece must report annually to the Bank of Greece with their total assets, cash and protection procedures for their deposits. The policies applied to small credit institutions are adapted so that they are simpler than their size. The Bank of Greece, the Capital Market Commission, the European Banking Authority shall cooperate and exchange information. The supervisory review and evaluation process shall be conducted by the Bank of Greece or the Securities and Market Committee. If sworn accountants fail to inform them immediately of an irregular event which has come to their attention, it is possible to replace them at the initiative of the Bank of Greece or the Securities and Exchange Committee. Supervisors shall be established for cross-border subsidiaries of an institution established in third countries. A specific and strict framework is established for additional capital requirements to ensure the solvency of institutions. There is particular importance in detecting cases of money laundering from terrorism or illegal activities. Finally, changes are being made to the issue of capital buffers. Directive 879/2019, which is also being incorporated today, updates the institutional framework on the need for credit institutions and investment firms to absorb losses and to recapitalisation. The resolution authorities shall ensure that credit institutions have the necessary amount of own funds, while drawing up the resolution plans. All the security controls provided for in the directives we are discussing today ensure that the banking system is shielded so that the public finances of the country do not have to feed back the deficits of banking institutions to the detriment of taxpayers. Amendment 874 is of particular value to all taxpayers, which reduces the tax advance from 100% to 55% for freelance professionals and 70% for businesses for 2020 and 80% after 2020. Private sector employees are exempted from the solidarity levy for this year as well, and they are reduced from 24% to 22% by the income tax rate for legal persons. The government, in response to the increased needs arising from the generalised resurgence of economic activity, has, in the last year, given considerable stimulus to individuals and businesses. The strengthening of banking activity and the simultaneous support of enterprises through TEPIX II and the Guarantee Fund have provided EUR 7.5 billion of approximately EUR thirty-two thousand businesses. With the "GEOFYRA 1" programme, more than seventy-five thousand companies have already been subsidised, while with "GEOFERA 2" which still runs grants, the instalments of bank loans for both serviceable and non-performing loans are being subsidized. The question of red loans, as we all know, is a decisive one in the development of the credit system. With the HERAKLIS programme, red loans have already been reduced by EUR 32 billion, while the programme continues and will achieve even better results with its completion. The government's overall economic policy aims to support households and businesses, while at the same time derailing budgetary figures and proving that this policy is effective, since the European Commission expects us to have a growth of 4.1 % in 2021 and 6% in 2022. The economy is, of course, based on figures and indicators. However, what ultimately matters is the real situation that citizens are experiencing. And, clearly, Greek citizens are very positive in responding to the government's economic policy, standing alongside those who need support, workers and entrepreneurs, while contributing to the growth of entrepreneurship and the national economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you too, Mr. Lippi. Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement, and then the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. George Zavvos will be given the floor. Minister, right after you take the floor. Meanwhile, until the seat is ready, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos and the MPs of his party have tabled today, May 13, 2021, a proposal for a law: "To amend the legal framework on arms ownership, as well as the legal limits of defence. Amendment of provisions of the Criminal Code and of No 2168/1993.’ It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the transposition into national law of European directives bringing changes to the regulatory framework for capital adequacy, as well as other supervisory procedures in credit institutions. The new framework strengthens the financial system and that is why I would say that it should have been ratified much earlier. Mr Minister, in order to avoid any doubt that this delay has worked in some cases favourable or unsatisfactory. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial stability and the ability of the banks to support the real economy is a major issue, it is a major issue, which is also an issue in particular with today's bill. In fact, in a society that has just come out of ten years of economic impoverishment and which we all see society entering a second economic crisis because of the pandemic. Minister, I would like here to focus particularly on what, in the opinion of our prolongation, the change-PASOK movement, is of essential value. What's that? To find their development and to be able to finance development. So that the banking system for the financing of real growth can be financed by small and medium-sized enterprises, that there can be modern banking incentives so that new private efforts can be made to get flesh and bones, that is to say, to support new, innovative business, but, in particular, to support small and medium-sized enterprises, who are trying to demonstrate their resilience to stay upright. In addition, Minister, arrangements are needed. That's sunlight more obvious. And this is about the overdue debt of households and businesses. If no immediate initiatives are taken, Minister, a new cycle of economic recession is before the gates. And since the figures are telling the truth, we are talking about 244,2 billion outstanding, without, of course, the outstanding debts relating to PPC or the other CECF, which are about 4 billion and without debts, I would say, among individuals, when the non-performing loans amount to 105,7 billion euros. And that, Minister, let it be held. Minister, according to the Bank of Greece's available figures, small and medium-sized enterprises have the weakest picture of late loans. And since many are deceiving, I would say, the small company is supposed to be uncompetitive here, it should be noted that on the basis of the Bank of Greece's allocation, the loan for large companies is about 12 billion, while for small and medium-sized enterprises 11.3 billion. What do we see? We see almost the same percentage. So let it be held, Minister, and this too. I mention this because it was the government's slippery that the large majority of new funding in 2020 went to big businesses and some crumbs, I would say, to small businesses and professionals. So, ladies and gentlemen, the issue is one since we have the Recovery Fund before us: private debt does not become a loop that will stifle the recovery of our economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the banks will have to show once again the ability, but also the willingness, to provide business with liquidity, that is to say, that bank credit will be strengthened again. We must therefore work on all parties in the same direction to resolve this issue creatively and bravely, because there is a large part of the debt that is a huge problem, as this part of the debt is in the grey zone. It's the debt from business to business, from dealer to trader, from outstanding exchange fees, from uncovered cheques. Here too, let us not forget, of course, that this problem has been created by the transfer of loans to foreign funds. From this Step I have repeatedly stressed that Greece should do what Cyprus did, namely enable borrowers to precede foreign funds or funds and buy their loans at the same price as the funds. Mr Minister, I would like an answer on this matter. Besides, whenever we get out of the wrong path, I'd say it's beneficial. Ladies and gentlemen, there are already estimates that private debt will increase by 35 billion, that the country's GDP will fall by 30 billion and that the private sector will be charged with new obligations. There are estimates here that this will be between 15 and 16 billion. In addition, all financial support from the government to enterprises amounts to around EUR 8.5 billion. I am referring to suspensions of payments, taxes, insurance contributions, interest and debt and other favourable regulations. So, ladies and gentlemen, we see that any recovery will be rebuilt through adverse conditions. Is there a solution? Yes, there is. Who is she? It's the brave treatment of private debt. What's got to be done? Genuine write-offs must be made, because it concerns part of a debt which is not collected. It should, in fact, be stressed here that this private debt may also affect public debt. And that, of course, means everything. Minister, the government will have to work in one direction. This direction is to restore banking faith, to stop, that is, banks being cautious and to finance businesses, professionals and households. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear. Only if we see the banking system recovered will we have reached a recovery point for the country, at a recovery point for the economy. We tabled proposals as a Change Movement - PASOK. We suggest that you adopt them. Evaluate them and adopt them. We are here to propose, with a fertile and constructive reason, the right thing to do. This is what we have done with our rapporteur and with our parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The Foreign Minister, George Zavvos, has the floor now. Immediately after the speech I will give Mr Kostas Maraveya from New Democracy. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill that the Government is bringing to the vote today, it proposes to adapt two Community directives, which will strengthen the capital adequacy of banks: on the one hand, this fifth directive - on capital adequacy - and, on the other, the directive on capital adequacy, which deals with the creation of sufficient capital axes if a bank goes to consolidation. These two directives are extremely technical. However, these are essential steps to strengthen stability, I would say, of the whole European Union financial system, to which we are also called upon to adapt. It was found, I think, at the hearing of the bodies, but also in all the extensive discussions that we had in the Special Committee on Economic Affairs, that there is a convergence on the usefulness of this directive. I will try to discuss briefly a few points in the directive itself and, secondly, respond to some of the comments made by the representatives of the parties. What we can see is that the EU, the acquis communautaire for banks, has been quite improved lately. It is because of this, moreover, that this time the banking system was not part of the problem, but rather a solution to the problem, which helps to get out of the crisis. The reform undertaken by the Greek Government, which has been accomplishing over the last ten months at a rapid pace as you can see, aims precisely at strengthening, shielding the banking system, in order to enable this system to refunction as the normal body, the liquidity transmission strap in the real economy. It is exactly what they are trying to do - and they are carrying out - implemented reforms, such as the 'HRAKLES', but also a number of others that we have voted on and discussed here. And I would like to say that the issue of reducing red loans within the shortest time we have achieved, with tangible results of a real reduction of EUR 32 billion in the first period of implementation of the 'HRAKLE', is already an important achievement. It is for this reason that the Government has also received approval of the extension of the 'HRAKLE' for eighteen more months, so that within this period they will be reduced to levels already from this one-digit year and certainly next year, reaching exactly the conditions they have achieved by the other European countries. It is precisely for this reason that, Mr Katrin, we have the responseary upgrades of the Greek banks after many years, because all worldwide and, above all, the investors who give their money, their vote continuously, recognise the tangible, significant changes and progress that this government has made. I also understand, of course, that some still question the liquidity that exists in the banking system, Mrs Eleftheriad of the SYRIZA and possibly others. Yes, we have the largest liquidity that has ever been in the banking system, more than 20 billion, 10 billion households, 10 billion more businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises. What's the point? The Greek citizen understands that there is certainty in the banking system. That's why he brings his statements there. There were several asymmetrical hints, especially from the Change Movement, Mr. Kegeroglu and others, that we allegedly delayed this bill for some strange reasons, and we wanted to create some precedents to pass through the back door the capital increase of Piraeus Bank and others. You realize that all these are fantasy eruptions and obviously fit all over that area of well-known conspiracy. The fifth directive, which applies with this draft law, has some important amendments, such as those concerning the approval procedure and direct supervisory powers over certain companies. In particular, it provides for a recommendation and a direct interim parent company in the European Union and, in particular, an obligation of branches of third country credit institutions for increased reporting and reporting. The planned separation of responsibilities between the Bank of Greece and the Securities and Market Commission shall also be maintained. As for the second directive that we are adopting, which we are adapting to Greek legislation, it concerns, as we have said, the possibility of ensuring that the entities and institutions established in the European Union have sufficient damage absorption capacity for their recapitalisation, precisely so as not to repeat what was done in the 2008 and 2009 crisis, when the European taxpayer paid for the banking crisis. Mr President, I would now like to reply briefly to the remarks made by the various speakers. I would like to say that I am not going into a thorough analysis again because, in particular, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ypsilantis, has set out most of the aspects of this bill. The Civic Opposition with Mrs Eleftheriadou told us a little bit - we are ready as a government to put the final blow to small and medium-sized enterprises and clear them up. I would like to say that this obviously does not correspond to any reality. I do not want to analyse again the list - we have said it here - of all the actions that the government has done throughout this period to create the necessary blockage, helping small and medium-sized enterprises and households to resist the crisis, namely, to be able to support all viable economic units in the country to get out of the crisis. And when we make a distinction between sustainable economic units and batters, we think that a division that is imposed, because the sustainable one must be supported - and is constantly supported and supported in the next phases - but the battering, that is, the systematic one who has ignored his obligations and deprived resources from the real economy and from other conscientious citizens and businesses, cannot be rewarded. It is an elementary division that we think at least the Civic Opposition must understand fully. The sums allocated by TPIX to EUR 7.5 billion in thirty-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-doile, from the Development bankile, from the Development bankile, from the Development Bank, from the Development Bank, from the Development Bank, from the Development Bank's, from the Development Bank, from the Bank's, from the Bank's, from the Development Bank, from the Bank's, from the Bank's, from the Bank's's, from the Bank's, from the guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee guarantee-guile, from the Bank's's. I would like to say that we also add to this the legislative, if you like, an intervention we have made on the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises which we will support and in particular those who do not have access to the banking system with the framework that we have set up, Mr Katrin, for the small and medium-sized enterprises which we have all voted on, which is being implemented by the Bank of Greece, in which we expect applications to come and in which the government is preparing new programmes at this time and to support exactly what we need. But you realise something very simple: in a period of acute crisis there can be no direct demand. We prepare the shape to be ready and give all those motives needed to be able to move immediately afterwards, the next day after the crisis. However, the issue of sustainable businesses has an important dimension, because it is precisely the sustainable businesses that we want to support and we will do everything in particular with the Recovery Fund. And I would like to say that the practically important objective which the government has is to change the economic model, and I would like to talk about a vital transformation needed by the production base, namely micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can take the best size so that they can strengthen their productivity, but also their extroversion, that is to say, the possibility of increasing their exports. I would like to say that we need a number of important things: firstly, companies with a significant size, secondly, transition to the green economy which is now possible, which is possible, through Union funds, but above all - and here we all agree - we need a new banking system that will serve a new economic model, a new economy. There is a great opportunity here for the country, because it is an opportunity to close this lane that has been created, it has been widened after two retaliations. We must above all make this bet so that we can bring back all those young people who have left in recent years. We agree that we need a debate, but we need this debate to be done on terms of seriousness. Because the case of the recovery fund's success is a matter of national survival. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like to say here that the government, as you know, has submitted one of the most successful projects. We've cost every program. There are clear delivery dates. I cannot go into the remarks, Mr President, because I see that the time of all Members has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u98	Please complete, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u99	But I have tried to cover the important things that the government has done and also the opportunities open up. However, I also had the comments of Mr Villard and all of them, but you realise that here - I say again - there is a willingness to create a banking system which will literally create and broaden the credit expansion of the banking system. Mr President, the representative of Mera25, Mr. Logiadis, said that we obviously have a banking union, but we do not have a political union. I agree with all of this. I would say that we urgently need the integration of the European banking union, because - and this is something that Northern European partners are beginning to fully understand - without a banking union there can never be the euro at a global level as a calibre currency and that is vital for the survival of Europe and the European economy. However, Mr. Logiadis also told us something interesting, referring to Mano Hadjidakis, who said: "When you get used to the monster's face, you start to look like him." That's what Manos Hatzidakis said, but he also had other intelligent remarks. He said that the greatest enemies of politics and culture are populism and elitism. I would just like to note that it is in rare cases where a party can gather these two together, possibly as a party as leadership. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Katrinis has asked for a minute's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we were not surprised when you celebrated in this Chamber too to reduce bank red loans. But you will allow us to celebrate when we see that the red loans of the citizens and not the banks will be reduced, and that is our difference. The second is for microfinance. At a time when you too accept that bank cannons are too tight for individual and very small businesses, where these businesses are not liquidityless and because of the measures have a problem of surviving, so microfinance is one-way - so we have voted for it, so that there is now that companies are struggling to survive a financing channel - we cannot say a year after: "What to do, the pandemic is here and we will not have any institutions that will provide financing or business that can survive through it." I think that the government should have much more methodically, targeted and methodically sought and encouraged, as the institutional framework says, precisely to give this board of salvation to businesses, which, out of liquidity, are sure to be closed soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u104	Here, Minister, you have the floor for one minute for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u105	Just for clarification, I would like to say to Mr Katrin that in the first year of HARAKLI the loans were reduced by 32 billion euros, without the Greek taxpayer being charged with anything. Bank balances have already been cleared to this extent, which means that they are now able to finance already small and medium-sized enterprises and households. In the second year, we are going for another 32 billion euros. We will have almost EUR 65 billion reduction, which all the reports around the world accept. This alone is a huge success, which solves both the hands of the banking system and creates huge liquidity in our economy. As for the question of small and medium-sized enterprises, you know that we have done one of the most excellent legislative frameworks that exist at the moment. It is true, however, that at this stage there is dystocia. I told you again, however, that by waiting for and ending the Bank of Greece, if it has something else, it will also create new programmes that will guarantee those who have to apply to the extent they want - because nobody can take them out of hand - they can give and extend this new institution, if you like, in the country, which, above all, seeks to strengthen young people who want to start a job. It's something I think we'll succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor. After Mr. Maraveya, Mrs. Rallia Christidou will take the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is another legislative initiative by the government which leads the country on the road to normality. This bill, namely, the amendments tabled by the Treasury contain a number of measures to alleviate millions of Greeks, reductions in advance tax payments, exemptions from the special solidarity levy, extension of the loan subsidy, zero rents for professional housing and much more. It is a continuation of measures to strengthen the economy and society, taken by the Government of New Democracy since the beginning of its term of office. The aim of the Prime Minister is twofold: on the one hand, to get the country out of the double health and economic crisis as soon as possible and to restore normality fully. This normality is approached even more by tomorrow, with the announced liberalisation of interregional travel, the prolongation of night-time costs by 12 o'clock at midnight, the abolition of SMS for each use and the opening of trade by the end of the click away and the click in shop. The new tourist season begins on Saturday, with obvious positive prospects for hotels, catering and transport. And yet, while all this is happening and every Greek has the opportunity to regain some of his life, some people in this Chamber publicly state that they prefer the continuation of the crisis, because that is what benefits them politically. They are frustrated at the return of our country to normality, frustrated by the country's progress, because they feel that they are now being permanently marginalized. And I recall the public negative position of the MEP of SYRIZA Mr Kokalis on the opening of tourism, who a few days ago presented Greece as a country dangerous to the health of its visitors. If this is not an international defamation of our country, then I can't even imagine what it is. I come to my colleague, Mrs Ahtsoglou, who, recently speaking to an online meeting of SYRIZA officials, clearly told them not to bet on normality to do party work. Regularity is therefore not a political opportunity for SYRIZA. That's what you told us. "Great turbulence, wonderful situation," Mao Chetung said. There, then, SYRIZA bets, not in solving problems, economic recovery and restoration of public health, but in perpetuating crises, economic hardship and the exclusion of millions of Greeks from normal social life. It is clear, therefore, that SYRIZA has never recognised the value of any of the measures taken, because it sees every constructive initiative by the Mitsotakis Government as another move that makes Mr Tsipras definitively to the margin. But let me go back to the bill. I would like to highlight the importance of ensuring adequate loss absorption capacity and recapitalisation of banking institutions. The aim of the bill is to ensure their financial self-interest, so that in crisis situations financial stability and public resources are not jeopardised. This means that credit institutions themselves should be able to continue to operate automatically immediately after a possible resolution. Although the reforms that have already been made in the context of prudential supervision have made the Greek banking system considerably more resilient to future crises, it is necessary to deal fully with all the problems that we have so far seen. This makes today's draft law through the incorporation of the two European directives in order to ensure that the relevant Community framework is applied effectively in the most modern terms. Thus, the implementation in Greece of the revised rules on the operation and supervision of banks is intended to further shield the financial system against emerging risks, and therefore to support the uninterrupted support of real society, as the Minister said earlier. Only in this way will banking institutions become a real lever for self-government for our country. This is also the general strategy of the Mitsotakis Government. This also serves the EUR 77 billion that we have secured from the Recovery Fund, the new ESDP and other European Union financial instruments. Self-government without public and private investment cannot exist. I could add that self-government is not only the construction of new infrastructure and the creation of productive units. It is also the tertiary sector, such as tourism and focus. In fact, for the latter we have had the new good news from the European Commission, which approved the Greek support programme with EUR 500 million, in other words the granting of hot money, to the companies of focusing in the form of a working capital for the acquisition of the raw materials that were immediately destroyed at the start of Lockdown and which are necessary for their re-launching. It is an essential measure in favour of entrepreneurship to supplement other direct State aid that we are now coming to vote on, such as the extension for May of the discharge of paid businesses from business rents and the extension of their deadline for participation in GEOFHY 2 for the repayment of their loan obligations with the public contribution. Minister, I would like to close up a few words on the second amendment from the Ministry of Finance. It is a large package of essential tax evasions involving millions of Greeks. On a permanent basis, from this year to 55%, the tax advance rate for natural persons' business activities has been reduced. The tax advance is reduced for both companies from this year to 80% and from the following year to 70%. It decreases on a permanent basis to 22% the income tax rate of enterprises starting in 2021. And this year's discharge from the solidarity levy is extended and in 2022 for all private sector employees. There will be new tax exemptions totalling 2.5 billion by 2023. It is a proof that the New Democracy respects its commitments and implements a policy of speeding up the real economy. As much as we displease our SYRIZA colleagues, we prefer to thank the many who want regularity. Those who insist on betting on the country's failure are only putting themselves out of normality, but also on the margin of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA has the floor and immediately after the word Mr. Barkas Konstantinos will be taken from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill that is essentially incorporating Directive 878 and Directive 879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 and Directive 98/26. What is being sought after a six-year implementation of the previous directive is to improve intervention at points which have been deemed necessary in the adoption of new agreed standards on capital adequacy and prudential supervision in credit institutions, based on the Basel agreements. This is how the European Union seeks to shield the banking system against existing and future risks. It's obvious that no one wants adventures with the banks. We paid too much for the lack of stability in 2015 when the SYRIZA government was found blackmailing because of this situation in the banks, a situation that they had led as a result of bi-communism over the past few years. The Greek people have paid very much for these policies. So we are coming today to make some additional rules, to ensure that this does not happen again. And as SYRIZA we vote 'yes' at the outset of the bill because we really want banks to perform a role that has to be the primary. We want banks sound, which channel money to the real economy, not only in large businesses, but also in small and medium-sized businesses, which, of course, did not happen during the pandemic crisis, since only fifteen thousand of the eighty-five thousand small and medium-sized enterprises gained access to the banks, although they had taken 52 billion from the European Central Bank for this very purpose, in other words, to help the real economy. If this does not change the picture, if the small and medium-sized enterprises that make up 95% of the businesses in Greece are not supported, then the exit from the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, will lead to a desert landscape, with thousands of padlocks and with the launch of unemployment. And we say it in advance, and only responsible for such a development will be the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis because it has made a series of very wrong choices. In no case could they meet market needs and, of course, the arrangements and suspensions made by the banking institutions are not a solution. The solution would be the definitive deletion of debts of the affected and vulnerable citizens and long-term arrangements, a period of grace. SYRIZA had mentioned them and suggested them to you and even costly to present the financial programme. And once again, we must open up and talk about the post-Korean era and the European Union. How will this season be? Are we going to be a stability pact again? At some point you must cause this conversation. Unfortunately, the government's financial staff chooses to ignore all this. The Minister previously, because he has received social discontent and the withdrawal of confidence, felt the need for a step by the House to take stock of the measures he has taken over the two years. We have been told by a number of tax arrangements which, for the majority of them, only concern the middle class and the lowest economic strata. Mostly they serve the most favourable economic strata. For the income of the State, for ways of reducing income inequalities, not a word from the Minister. More generally, you move to other logics and the banks obviously consider you so far as they do not accept or come to the House to answer the Greek people's representatives on the issues we would raise. What other time has the Greek Banking Union been called to Parliament and has not appeared? Its President, Piraeus Bank President, if he could not, why didn't he send the Vice-President of the Union? What questions did the representatives of the Banking Union want to avoid and did not appear? Really, how does it feel, how does the government feel about this derogatory attitude? Ladies and gentlemen, households and small and medium-sized enterprises need a healthy banking system, but they will be at their side, operating in terms of transparency, aimed at sustainable logic that will favour everyone and not just a few and financially strong ones. I read in the Commission's minutes the words of the Secretary of State for Finance and, indeed, to put it stylishly, I wondered. He talked about bank liquidity that goes beyond about EUR 20 billion right now and said, "We hope that in the next few months a large part of the money will be put into the economy and that it will also be able to contribute to recovery". Hopefully. Gentlemen of the government, you are not in these positions to hope for. The citizens made the mistake in the last elections to trust you, in order to formulate and implement policies that will relieve them of the long-term economic crisis, which you and you alone have created all the previous years. They expect plans and actions from you so that bank executives do not subsidise professionals, battenders and ordinary state-owned peers, supposedly entrepreneurs. A banking arrow system in the efforts of those who really are players of development in this country. And you're telling them that you hope that liquidity will come and in the meantime you have voted for the immunity of large bankers, you allow for first home seizures in September, you sell public participation in Piraeus, you let banks be uncontrollable to close branches and push staff to voluntary exit, a practice that will be charged by public funds over time. The worst part is that you do not put any framework of rules in order to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and vulnerable citizens. You estimate that about 10 billion debts have been created in the banks during the pandemic. They are debts which should at least be deleted for vulnerable and affected debtors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you must act with a plan and not with hope or with the naive theory that the market will be regulated by itself. The market will not be regulated by itself, as it has never been regulated anywhere. What the market does at any time is what the economy does, regresses at times more to the benefit of many and sometimes, as is happening now, to the benefit of very few. It's a scale. More and more, however, understand what account you have prepared for Greek citizens and the time is near that they will think and remember that only the government of Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA can give solutions to their real problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u111	Minister, gather everything and give an answer to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u112	Just for a minute. Because it's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u113	Just for one minute, but you can't answer every Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u114	When I referred to the fact that we hope for the liquidity of the deposits - which is the largest that has ever been in this country, because of the people's confidence in the Government of New Democracy and does not remind those tragic hours of 2015 - I meant that we hope that private deposits, that is, the deposits of households and businesses will fall into the real economy. There's no other way. Have you thought of something strange, like then, with those walks that some wanted to do, pass through and think about some other procedures? There is no other way, rather than the citizen making available precisely if he wants to buy, move consumption. No one can oblige him. That's what we hope. As for what the government is doing, you realize that it has given billions this time, and I am not going into analysis again, to help small and medium-sized enterprises and households. That is why we have these excellent results. That is why you have the revised forecasts that the Commission gives today, which is why the answerable increases and recognition by all international organisations, if you like, have been made. Don't misunderstand the words. I hope...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, that is insulting!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u117	You see this can't go on. The dialogue won't stop. He'll have to answer. You made an observation, right in your opinion. The Minister gave a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u119	Here, for a minute. Mr Minister, I am not saying this for you alone, but the remarks must be gathered and finally answered. Not separately to every Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I have asked to speak on personal grounds. I know very well under the Constitution that we who are exposed to our political views must demonstrate the necessary tolerance to any kind of criticism. Obviously, therefore, the Minister, because he is panicked by the general state of the government and its general collapse and apparently perceives the opinion polls that are no longer the way it was...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u121	But that's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, he referred to me. In fact, he said, 'My lady'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u123	To refer to somewhere, when it is not reproached, it is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u124	Wasn't what he said reproach?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u125	I am a Member of Parliament, Mr President, and the Minister is not allowed to refer to a colleague, to an elected woman by saying 'My lady'. I'm so sorry. I therefore forgive the Minister. The worst of all is that it refers to a time, in 2015, forgetting that elections were held in September 2015 with a memorandum that SYRIZA won. He also forgets that the result of these elections was that the "left parenthesis" had been created and left a country with empty funds, without even fulfilling the last instalment, disbursing from the previous elections, leaving a country in God's mercy. Let's not forget about this and blame SYRIZA for implying that SYRIZA wanted something else. This propaganda at some point has to end. It's been a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution. Then I will give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Boomba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we come to talk about the banking system. When people listen to a banking system, they've lost their trust. And how not to lose her. I have already heard the Minister say that the banks must be united in order to have a strong banking system. Only in Europe we have a different legislative framework for the people, so the people are fragmented and not united. And when there is no united social Europe, what am I supposed to do with a banking united Europe? Where's the banking system going? Is it not to improve the quality of life of European citizens? We don't see that. As a Greek Solution we have raised too many issues that are involved from behind strong trust banks. First of all, because the opinions differ, the Greek people must know that the Bank of Greece is private. It is in this European Banking System, but it controls the whole situation. The Greek state can only have 35% of the Bank of Greece's shares. This bank was founded in 1928 to be a bank of Greek citizens and has changed question. In fact, if the people know that, there can be no representative of the state to control the Bank of Greece's books, apart from the fact that he has raised the governors of the Minister and four of them and premiers. The only one who can control the banking system in Greece, because this is the krone - the Nationality is another story - the Bank of Greece, which once had the responsibility of cutting notes, is only the Commissioner. However, the Commissioner must, under the legislative framework, have a confidence when he checks the books of the Bank of Greece. Is that the banking system that is shielded to strengthen and protect the Greek people? Let me remind you that when we as Greek Solution, when we asked for your consent, and I and my fellow citizens went to the presidents of your parties to tell them that in the schools of judges some judges, many in the number, gave a text of training to the new judges "Now that you go out to trial..." - School of Judges of Thessaloniki, has admitted it to Mr. Tsiaras - "... you will support the banks and will take any deceit to the subjects", i.e. the borrowers! What does the court itself say to us? Support the banks! And you expect the Greek people, with the plan "HRAKLIS", to have confidence that you will protect their fairs, homes and homes? And it comes - and even then - Mr Tsiaras, who admitted it, and I went to your leaders and I and the Greek Solution and no one took a stand. Because the issue here, gentlemen, if you want to protect the laws of the Greeks, it is not what party says it, it is what it says. And we really feel a deep disappointment about the foundations of democracy and justice on this. So the Marios Ice comes out two weeks ago and says: "No, gentlemen, you can't take deceit to the borrowers, the ad hoc court will see it individually, because each borrower has come to this relentless economic situation, which experiences his own pain." What did Menander say? "The loans of their slaves free shepherds and said that twenty-five centuries ago. If you borrow, where the people say to the caterpillar, you're screwed. Let's go a little now. Indian cannabis coming. Which banks are hiding behind the twelve applications made for the treatment of Indian cannabis? Is that BIOMECANN? Is ‘BIOPROCANN’? BIOMECANN, one in Larissa, the other in Corinth. I don't know. I'm waiting for the government to tell us. On the subject of the Greek, which you present as an investment, is it behind the ‘LAMDA’, and the company ‘FOSUN’ of China involved in the FOLLI FOLLIE scandal? Is it from behind a Saudi bank by ‘AL MAABAR’? I'm asking. What bank hides, Mr Hatzidakis, for the sale of LARCO in the town of Kavartsi, Skopje, for the mines in Serbia and Kozani? What role has Mr. Emir in 2013 and Mr. Daskalakis played for 'LARCO' and the cobalt, which our President, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, has analysed very thoroughly, for the cobalt that is necessary? Why, Mr Hatzidakis, did you tell us that we were going to have a penalty that we funded LARCO and that the National Bank was involved, because it was illegal in the limits of competition, when the Vienna Declaration is held by the countries of Europe's industry in 2015? Eighteen European Union countries, read the Vienna Declaration, which says that when a company is necessary for the European Union to be self-sufficient and not dependent on Asia, Russia, from anywhere else, on raw materials, it can be financed. Why did you hide this from the Vienna Declaration and tell us about the penalty? So all of this, like Hercules at the end of his poison, died from the turtle, there can be no trust in a banking system when it really serves in the proper interests. And for the Bank of Greece, I analyzed this whole story for you. What banks are hiding in the large nuclear reactor in Akuy, which Mr. Dendias went to the exploratory, but did he not tell Mr. Tsavosoglu that Turkey violates the Finnish ESPO Convention on Nuclear Weapons that he is preparing to do in Akuy? And I close with the weaponry our President Kyriakos Velopoulos has analysed. I'm going to hand you evidence from a lawyer, the Telemachus Hormovite, I don't know the man, I did an investigation, which gives evidence that the weapons are reducing crime, gentlemen. That's a good thing. I'll testify to the Minutes. Do you know which countries he's talking about? He's not just talking about America. Cyprus, Switzerland, Sweden. In 1992, in the United States, ninety - two million weapons were released to the United States. Today is over three hundred million. Legislation in most states has become easier, that's true. But homicides with a gun not only increased, it says, but decreased to half, at the lower level of the last fifty years, in New Hampshire, in Minnesota, unlike California and Illinois. Let's go a little Cyprus, Switzerland and Sweden: The number of gun killings is very low, while mass attacks like that of Florida are extremely rare, unlike Brazil, where guns are banned, crime has increased five times over the USA. It closes and says: 'The ban solves no problems, on the contrary the only benefit is criminals, who still find weapons on the black market'. Inside Cyprus, Switzerland and Sweden. Because these three countries are in the first ten of weapons worldwide. They are countries of Europe, of old age, and it is Cyprus, it is Sweden, an advanced state. So, gentlemen, when we speak in the Greek Solution for Armed Forces, we provide you with information on the security and constitutional laws of the citizens. We don't see you on a Priori like this. I'm tabling this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Boubas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is legal, Mr President, that Telemachos Hormovitis, who for many NGOs has been sued for exposing himself for some strange NGO trash. Because what we are putting today is that there will be cooperation between banks and non-governmental organisations. That is what concerns us in the Greek Solution and as far as the possession is concerned, there is evidence of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC, without asterisks and at the first moment, condemned the massacre of the Palestinian people by the Israeli occupying state, the murderer state, and we expressed our solidarity with the Palestinian people. Israel's aggression is escalating against the Palestinian people as it moves on to the development of land troops along the Gaza borders, increasing concerns about a new Israeli invasion of the Palestinian enclaves. As a party we denounce the attitude of the United States, NATO and the European Union, which in essence support Israel and try to identify the victim with the victim. Once again it is confirmed that the Americans, NATO and the European Union are the destabilisation factor in the region. In his logic, he divided and reigned, they change the borders, so that they can control the pipelines, the sources and markets in the wider region. It is very difficult for the Greek Government to baptise the crimes of Israel against Palestinian self-defense, taking a line from State Department. Of course, the responsibilities of the New Democracy Government and all the previous governments and SYRIZA, which have upgraded economic, business and military relations over the years, are very great, but above all military relations with the state of murder, with the Israeli state, in the context of the geostrategic upgrading of our country. In this respect, as a JRC, we stress the need for the immediate end of the Israeli massacre and occupation, for the immediate release of all Palestinians and other political prisoners from Israeli prisons, for the creation of a uniform, independent Palestinian state, the capital of East Jerusalem at the 1967 border, with the people of housewives at their place, with the right to return all Palestinian refugees to their homes, on the basis of the relevant UN decisions. And of course, at last, the government must go ahead with the recognition of the Palestinian state by implementing the unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament of 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law incorporating the European financial system directives is nothing else, as the Secretary-General himself pointed out, despite an attempt to strengthen the capital adequacy of the banks, which is a follow-up - we would say - of all the previous measures taken by the governments of New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and today the New Democracy. These measures are nothing but the recapitalisation of the banks, because in essence they lost 40 billion and were transferred to the state debt to pay the popular layers through taxation. 22 to New Democracy - PASOK and 20 to SYRIZA were lost. That's how much state involvement was then in the banks. It was also the deferred tax, which is a form of State aid to the banks. It was the management of red loans by all governments. Auction liberation. New bankruptcy code from New Democracy. A special offense to block auctions by the SYRIZA government. The “GEVY 1” and “GEVY 2” programme, where on substance with warm state money of the taxpayers’ grassroots straddle financing banks and convert to hostages of their banks borrowers. The "HRAKLIS" programme, in which, with a State guarantee, banks are trying to get rid of'red loans', while there is still a risk of State aid losses and an increase in State debt. It was also a shrinking of the banks as far as shops and workers are concerned. And this shrinkage is timeless, it characterizes all the governments and government of SYRIZA, with voluntary departures and redundancies from the banks. I shall submit the data, as the Banking Union itself gives them. On December 31, 2009, there were four thousand thirty bank shops and sixty-seven thousand eight hundred bank employees. In December 2019 the bank shops became one thousand and thirty-eight and the bank employees were thirty-seven thousand seven hundred. In other words, we had a 54% reduction in stores and 45% reduction in bank staff. We were intensified by the workers in the banks, the difficulty in poor people's strata being able to meet the obligations they have in the banks. At the same time, there was a large concentration of the banking system in a few hands: On 31 December 2008 there were a total of forty financial institutions operating in our country and sixteen cooperative banks. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. This huge gathering took place in the hands of a few banking groups over the years and, in particular, in the years of the memoranda of all governments. So the effort to restructure, strengthen and shield the financial system has been paid over time by the employees in the financial system, paid it by our people through the need for auctioning and discharging the loans or by attempting to manage public debt and increasing their taxation. We say that, with all these measures taken over time by governments, burden the burdens on the people's backs, to relieve the financial system that is, moreover, the heart of the capitalist system. Banks are not euphoric institutions and are not working for the well-being of the people, but rather for the well-being of capitalist businesses. From this point of view, we are clearly saying that the highly indebted people's households, the professionals, the self-employed, must demand immediate measures so that their overcompensation for the financial system through a brave cut in their debts to the banks, tax and insurance funds to self-employed professionals and poor farmers. So this bill is only an attempt to continue with the uncovered policy of supporting the needs of the big capital, meeting the needs of business groups, so that by exploiting the financial system quickly to uncover the 70 billion European funds, which the European people and the Greek people will pay through the pan-European memorandum that is a prerequisite for the Recovery Fund and also through its taxation. From this point of view, the government in every way forms an even more favourable ground for the action of business groups. With today's amendments, it also gives new provocative tax incentives to business groups by reducing the tax rates for legal persons to 22%, in the context of tax competition, which the SYRIZA Government has faithfully served by forming a favourable ground for the action of business groups. Let us not forget that the first flagship measure of the SYRIZA government in tax policy immediately after the formal exit from the memoranda was the reduction of tax rates to legal persons and the reduction of tax rates on distributed profits, i.e. the revenues of the radars. This is what the SYRIZA government did when it had loaded the tax burden on the backs of the people, workers, pensioners and self-employed. In fact, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsis, in a desperate attempt to show that the government supports workers through tax policy, has dared to mention the reduction in insurance contributions by 10%. Is that for the benefit of workers or is that at their expense? For that is how the insurance funds are led to bankruptcy, to increase labour participation, to reduce pensions and to increase the participation of workers in medical care, to work up to the deep age, to get a pension which will not even be able to survive. So, at least they are also honest that this measure of reduction in insurance contributions corresponded to the needs of companies, in order to carry out new recruitments. Therefore, it is clear that strengthening competitiveness and shielding the profitability of business groups are the precursor bed for workers' rights and the position of workers. That is why it is no coincidence that the first prerequisite, so that the first instalment of the European Union's Recovery Fund can be disbursed by the New Democracy Government, can be advanced and presented yesterday by the Minister of Employment, Mr Hatzidakis. It is a qualitative step in the attack that the working class is taking on in this working middle age that all previous governments have shaped by the Memorandum Laws and the implementation of European directives. It is a crime against workers and whatever rights they have left. With dominance of working time, with the abolition of eight-hour fundamentals, they put gravel on all these struggles in the past decades and centuries for the working class, for the conquest of the eighth. Therefore, work can be made elastic according to the needs of business groups. It goes on to further generalise the work on Sundays, to increase the overtime limit, to unpaid overtime, rather than to move on to new jobs and, of course, to further control by the state and employers' trade unions through the generalised e-book. And all this will monitor them, he says, the abolition of the inspection body and the formation of an independent authority, an inspection body with few workers. And, of course, in order to transfer political responsibilities from the backs of the governments, they create a new independent authority that oversees - and well - the implementation of anti-government legislation. SYRIZA's Government spokesman in his intervention from the Step of the House called on the KKE to say he can't put a bag on the same for business issues and SYRIZA. But he forgets that SYRIZA is different from the New Democracy Government. Of course, we have no delusions that SYRIZA is something different from New Democracy, but as to what? With regard to the management policies of a deep anti-virtual and class policy and the ability and the possibility of enclaving popular discontent within the walls and, of course, of erroneous attempt to radicalize wider popular forces. So together New Democracy and SYRIZA accept the strategic choices of the bourgeoisie, they support and implement these strategic choices, such as the geostrategic upgrading of our country - the government of SYRIZA was the one that turned Greece into the flagship of the Americans and NATO of the region - and the participation in the lycoacity of the European Union, but also in every need that business groups are currently serving through the armoring of competitiveness, cheap workers, without rights, consumable workers, through the measures to shield the system, through the repression, state violence and employers' arbitrage, as well as the obstacles to the strike. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said that "we had to take these measures in anti-antagonists, we didn't want them. They put the gun on the head." But let us accept this logic that you put in. A year that you typically abolished the memos, why didn't you abolish any anti-virtual laws?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u130	The collective agreements did not...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u131	I didn't interrupt you, Mr. Chakaloto. Calm down. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Chaakalato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u133	No anti-Semitic laws have been abolished, but what have you actually done in this year? A very emblematic move, the Brutsi Act, the anti-government Act, adopted it and made it Brutsi - Ahchioglou on how to define the minimum wages, with government intervention and a decision in support of the competitiveness of the economy and business groups. That's what you did to this one year after the formal abolition of the memos. And now you're saying you've changed? It's just from the security that the Opposition offers you, you're trying to cultivate a non-existent charity profile. And if you want, what's the essence? You said you were blackmailed. But our people in their historic journey have shown that when they are blackmailed, you must choose either the chains or the weapons and you have chosen the chains rather than the weapons, the weapons, and the literality and transport. You have chosen the chains and subjection to the needs of satisfying business groups, NATO, the European Union and the IMF. From this point of view, the JRC will not be the swimming pool of Siloam to unleash some responsibilities. We as a party call and call on the people to get out on the road, the workers and the rest of the people, to forge unity underneath, unity in social and class orientation to prevent this anti-galactic monstride and, of course, to conflict on the substance with the real opponent. And the real opponent is not just today's government policy or whatever tomorrow. A real rival is the profitability of business groups and the capitalist system that shields this capitalist profitability. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Tsakalotos asked for the floor for a minute for clarification. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u135	Mr Karathanasopoulos, I made an entire criticism in the New Democracy that he finds various ways to avoid serious discussion. I don't want to make the same criticism of the JRC. You said that after the end of the memorandum, the only thing we did was go on with the Brutsi Act. First of all, you cannot forget and neither will the workers and those who support the JRC forget that the first act we have done immediately after the Memorandum was the return of the collective agreements and the two principles that this has. You cannot forget that we increased the minimum wage and promised that if we left it only in collective agreements, because it was weak in the working class at the time, we would not get where it was when the minimum wage was reduced from the first and second quarters. So we said we were going to raise him, raise him, and when he got to the level he was, we'd have to get back. You may disagree, you may want more, but you cannot distort, because it all happened after the memorandum, and I think we pushed the workers and the workers. So we have a conversation where we disagree, but on the real facts. Get back at least that the only thing we're doing was this when you know that the collective agreements are back. And my last sentence. This may be for the Greek people to forgive you because of the dispute, the disagreement, the strategic disagreement, but what must not forgive you is the reason not to work together for the labour bill that comes. It is so great that the issue which I think you should understand - and if you do not understand it, the workers understand - that the issue and the difference are so huge, the danger is so great, that no left is entitled to say 'because I disagreed two years ago, I will not work to cancel this bill'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u136	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u137	I am very grateful to Mr Tsakalotos for confirming what I said, that the first emblematic act they have done was the acceptance of the flagship anti-government law, the Brutsi Act, which turned him into a Brutsi-Achtsioglou Act, and indeed, not only did they restore the sectoral contracts to the levels of 2012 before the specific law, but they kept to the levels they are. In fact, not only did they not require collective bargaining and dialogue between employers and workers to determine the minimum wage, but they accepted the state of the employer to determine the minimum wage, speaking of the weakness of the trade union movement, when they themselves prevented workers from proclaiming a strike, particularly in primary unions. This policy has been SYRIZA's practical action in a direction to disarm the working people's movement and to turn it into a bearer of the interests of major business groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too. I will now give the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Ioannis Economou, the floor, to develop the amendment with a general number 873/12-5-2021 on specific fisheries regulations. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, this is the amendment with the general number you mentioned, two articles on which two key issues are resolved. The first article of the amendment prevents the possible discrimination between our fishermen, stating that the prohibition on fishing by trawlers for the months June, July, August and September of each year concerns the inland waters of the Greek territory and the zone 6 nautical miles from the baselines of our coast. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation has become necessary since the recent expansion of the gynaecological zone in the Ionian Sea. The second article comes to resolve the issue of fisheries for the species of coastal shrimp pending the adoption of the relevant Presidential Decree, which is expected to be sent to the Council of State in the next few months and which will determine in great detail the fisheries of species we shall exceptionally determine that fishing for the species will be allowed for four months after the vote on this amendment. They are also provided for in its technical details. These are two issues which are in the interests of fishermen and which - I think - will be supported by all the wings of this House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Is there any of the rapporteurs or the parliamentary representatives who would like to clarify the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u141	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u142	Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't know if it should be clarification. I'd like to hear the State Secretary. We do not understand exactly what you want to achieve with this amendment. Question: Is it possible to go beyond six miles? So if one goes to seven or eight miles is allowed? Second question: is it not indirect acceptance by the law of our gynaecitis zone the six nautical miles? Why six nautical miles? Don't you admit it by law directly? I don't know if you understand what I mean. Do we define our hayalitis zone at six nautical miles by law? We will abstain from this vote. We consider it unacceptable. Another question: Can the fisherman go to the seven nautical miles?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u144	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u145	This is a purely technical issue that emerged after the extension of the nautical miles to the Ionian Sea. Our country retains its right to extend it to all seas. It is a purely technical issue, so that there is no distinction between fishermen. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u146	Thank you both very much. We're entering the Webex talker circle. The first is Mr.Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy and immediately thereafter, Mr. Nikos Syrmaleneos from SYRIZA. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised to witness the previous confrontation between the two parliamentary representatives, on the one hand, of the Communist Party and, on the other hand, of SYRIZA. If I understood correctly, because if I didn't understand correctly, the Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC asked SYRIZA to participate in an attempt to break the chains with weapons, literally and transportly. I didn't really understand the word. And since I am not used to plundering, I would like to have a clarification, just like the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who put it down and, in fact, called on the JRC to take a stand against their anti-government bill, which is coming. I would therefore like an answer to the word 'truely' and 'transport' for arms. I come to this bill now. We therefore have a bill, which incorporates two European directives and, as most parties in this House see and admit, moves in a right direction. I think that with the incorporation of these directives we are even more shielding our banking system. The government is constantly doing so, constantly bringing European directives into line and incorporating them. I believe that our accession to the European Union also requires obligations, which even modernise our legal arsenal. At the same time, the Opposition was given the opportunity, in particular, to proceed with a storm - I would say - of criticism against the government, which should be in lower tones, because it comes from people who were fully responsible for the recapitalisation, in 2015, in which the Greek banking system was forced into substantial zeroing in the literal value of the Greek banks, value that the shareholders did not lose, but also lost the Greek state, which held a very large part of these shares. And they criticise people who were also in government positions and who, in essence, liberated the redundancies through their own operations, who liberated the first home auctions. They are the same people who, last year, talked about a hundred redundancies, redundancies that didn't come. In this year, the government has managed not to increase unemployment and to disprove the Cassandras. Now, the new pattern is that there's another firing-off and lock-up band again. Fear always exists. Fear keeps the ballast. But the ballast is kept by the government. And as he did in the crisis, so he continues to act. Today, I have heard from the relevant Minister of Development, Adoni Georgiadis, that a programme is coming for lawyers, a programme is coming for tourism, a programme that will support children's homes and gymnasiums. We also had a programme for re-launching the focus. I do not need to mention all these programmes, which, with the help of European funds, and with the financial area which the government finds because of the low lending can bring and support the economy in the new phase that comes in. I didn't want to be blind. The problems exist and they're here. As I said, however, we have a government, which has shown that it can solve problems and solve them on the ground, not on paper, not on ideas reports, not on holistic projects, which, at the end of the day, end up in an endless consultation. What I'm waiting for him to come is something for the retail trade. I believe that the retail trade and, in particular, the clothing and footwear sector has been hit too badly. There are government promises that something similar is being considered. I'd like to see it quickly. Finally, I should also like to refer to the notorious working bill, which is another major battlefield for opposition. I think it is moving in a perfectly correct direction. We must not see these issues under the terms of the 1980s. This time has passed. I think even the workers, probably not the workers, are ready to understand that we are going through a new era. It is not through the bill that workers are being persecuted. The practice is put forward by the trade unions, who have been hostages for decades and have only actually fought for the good of the workers. They are the trade union leaders, who could not condone and hold a conference. It is those trade union leaders, which are sowing the upset even within the pandemic in a country which has just come out of the memoranda. Finally, I am waiting, in particular, for the JRC parliamentary representative to clarify what he said about arms, whether literally or transported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Simopoulos. Mr Zavvos has the floor for a clarification. Then Mr. Karathanasopoulos will take the floor for a minute. Immediately, then I'll give the floor to Mr. Armalene. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to clarify that during the exchange of my remarks with SYRIZA, Mrs Rallia Christidou, I would say that she was said not to leave anyone, even infinitely, I would say that she might have had something degrading or something else. I would like to say - to be clear - that the whole concept of my remark should not be misunderstood, as should the remark in relation to the 'I hope' measure. I would like to say that we are obviously honoring all the Members of this Parliament, and in particular because we have fought together for 25% in the bank boards and obviously in the publications we had on the woman's day. I would like there to be no one, but no one, if you wish, even infinitely, doubt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u150	Mrs Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u151	I am very pleased, Minister, that there is no such misunderstanding. I've asked for the Minutes. I would ask that your last sentence be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u152	It'll be erased. After each other's explanations there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u153	I'm glad you get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u154	Just six and a half hours we were here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u155	I think the explanation given by the Minister is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u156	In fact, I returned to the President at that time and said to him 'in the hole of speech, I said it'. I didn't say that disgracefully. I didn't remember your name at the time. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for your supplementary placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u159	I do not want to prejudge bad intentions and reasonable models to Mr Simopoulos. I accept that because it is far away, he may not have listened well to what we have said. What I said in my position is that the people whenever they were in front of the dilemma chains or weapons, at times of historical magnification, chose the second and, in fact, also metaphorically on their historic path. And he did so also in possession of the Greek democratic army and in a number of other important moments. So I was talking about a very specific historical period, Mr President, and about the literally and literally transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u160	I have not heard, Mr Karathanasopoulos, simply the word 'historical routes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u161	Well, there's been clarification and I think it's over. Mr. SYRIZA from SYRIZA has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis from SYRIZA. Mr. Symphony, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u162	Good evening, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that we have been in favour of this draft law which incorporates the two European Union directives and we have been in favour of the immunisation of the country's banking and financial system further, of course, in the light of the major crisis in 2008-2009, which has led to the known recapitalisations. From there, however, our great differences and the gap between us and the New Democracy begin, serving two intersectional opposite strategies. The issue at issue is not the need for the self-evident stability of the financial system. The applicant is who has served all the previous years the banking system and who will serve in the future in the real economy, in the light of a sustainable and fair growth strategy. And of course, consequent with this, it is who ultimately designs the priorities, the hierarchies of the Greek economy and society. Does the state plan or does the markets? That is the crucial issue, which divides us as chaos from New Democracy. This is the central question, which we are answering in a completely different way and in a completely different strategy for both the past and the present, but much more for the future. The scripts we have so far are very clear. And of course, in order to respond to the Minister, Mr Zavvos, the banking system is of course one of the pillars of financing the economy. In addition to the four systemic banks, however, there is a development bank, as well as the micro-credit tool, two financial instruments which have been launched in the governance of SYRIZA, two instruments that are essential for the financing of the small and medium-sized enterprises, which is - let us not forget this - 95% of the Greek businesses and thus also the backbone of the Greek economy. The question of the Recovery Fund is of course raised here. In the small and limited debate that has taken place in the House on projects and axes to be financed by the Recovery Fund, we have not been told how small and medium-sized enterprises are being supported, when from the recovery fund loans of 12.7 billion, only the 500 million are intended to be managed by the Development Bank, which in particular can support these enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, which we know cannot go through the banking system, and because of the pandemic they also appear with accumulated debts to the banks, around 10 billion. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has repeatedly tabled its proposals to support the economy, with the latest ones submitted in mid-April. For public debts, among other things, it proposes to delete interest and surcharges, delete part of the basic debt of up to 60% and repay the balance in a hundred and twenty instalments. For debts to the banks, in relation to red loans, we proposed, as long as the exceptional circumstances last, first suspension of payments, second grace period for regulated debts, third prolongation of interest-adjusted repayment period, fourthly the separation of debts with adjustments in part and the freezing of debts. Fifthly, the deletion of part of the debt for vulnerable and affected. Furthermore, the State must legislate to delete interest on late payment, which may have been calculated during the critical period, to suspend bankruptcy and enforcement measures, to freeze interest rate and not to lose the arrangements. The Government of New Democracy presents an over-optimistic picture of the Greek economy and banking system, focusing on reducing red loans to one-digit percentages. You forget, however, that from the fat money, about 50 billion, taken by the systemic banks from the European Central Bank, to small and medium-sized enterprises, zero funds were directed, while at the same time, with the increase in Piraeus Bank's share capital, you have made a scandalous reduction in public shares, through the Financial Stability Fund and the bank's small and medium-sized shareholders, while at the same time guaranteeing immunity to the CFS staff, as was the case with the banks' administrations, so that they may be unpunished for the interests of the public. And of course you say nothing about the closure of hundreds of branches of banks throughout Greece, but also the redundancies of thousands of bank staff or the closure of branches in remote areas and small islands, with great negative consequences, especially for the elderly people who were served by these branches. As far as money laundering is concerned, for which the Minister said that they are particularly sensitive, we voted in October for an additional institutional framework, but what he finally considers is political will. And the political will regarding the New Democracy is that you have closed the eye on money laundering with main beneficiary shipowners, major businessmen, former bankers, etc., since by amending the Criminal Code you have defined that the freezing of financial crime products, accounts, accounts, mobile property, etc., for which the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority has ordered a commitment of more than eighteen months. As for the bank loans owed by the New Democracy and PASOK, more than 400 million, loans in loan and unnecessarily at the expense of the Greek people, I would simply remind you that we are not forgetting ourselves. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that the New Democracy, following the submission of the anti-government bill, which legalises the working jungle, completes its vision of the country's prospect, a vision based on a development in favour of the oligarchs, whom it constantly strengthens at the expense of work and the great majority of the Greek people. That is why political change in favour of progressive solutions is now becoming urgent for the people and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Symphony. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mrs Catherine Papanatziou from SYRIZA. Mr. Curublis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u164	Good evening, Mr. President. I would also like to express my agony and sorrow about the blood and pain that is currently in our neighborhood, in the Middle East. And I would like to say that the solution to this timely problem between the two peoples, Israel and Palestine, goes through the recognition of the Palestinian state and the peaceful coexistence of the two peoples. It will never stop this blood flowing from both sides unless all the nations of the world contribute and, above all, the powerful in solving this problem in this region. Mr President, yesterday and today we had two facts of interest. They remind me of what the people say: "My knowledge of having you first." The Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia today will be accepted by the Prime Minister of Greece at the Maximos Megaron. We welcome this fact because we have lifted the huge political cost that the political system has not dared over the past thirty years to do, we have lost the election mainly from this option to tell us today that the presence of the Greek Air Force of FIR, Skopje and Northern Macedonia is great and important. And so we solved a problem so that we could stick to where the danger really exists and everyone knows where the danger comes from. Like the Minister for Development of the cannabis case, I would remind you of what we then heard from the media that is being listened to in the New Democracy and from the politicians of the New Democracy. The right, Mr President, with some such tricks and terrestrials, usually takes the election. The same was done, to remind the story a little, and in 1920, when the National Eleftherios Venizelos lost the election on the argument that: “Would your fields grow if your children take to Asia Minor? Vote us to bring them back." And instead of going to a compromise and not having the dramatic events afterward, they made the unwise decision to make that famous precursor failed operation against Ankara. Mr President, we agree, of course, with the two directives which are currently being put in place with the government's proposal to integrate themselves into the Greek legal system, so that, in fact, since they must always be the responsibility of each government, we can achieve stabilisation and strengthening the banking system. However, Mr President, while the directives are coming from the European Union, we are finally waiting for this European Union to commit itself, in order to strengthen the euro as an international currency, to proceed with the implementation of the 2012 decision, the Heads of State, to complete the unification of the banking system in Europe, the European banking system, and thus further strengthen the security of depositors and confidence in the banking system. However, unfortunately, Europe once again, as it was in the last part-session, has shown that it is subject to the interests of certain Member States and, above all, Germany, and has refused what President Biden dared, to enter the heart of capitalism, the heart of its multinationals, that in such a budgetary crisis it must break the patent. And not only that is why the European Union does not dare speak, but it turns out to be an entrepreneur in the work of lobbys, multinationals. That is why he has never dared to negotiate jointly and to reduce the time force of the patentum on innovative medicines and the negotiation of the price of these medicines in order to make them accessible and to reduce the pressure on insurance systems. Now either he likes or does not like it, Mr President, he has opened a very serious debate that it is not the exclusive right of multinational companies, the so-called intellectual property of research, because today the debate is opening up and the issues are on the surface which have to do with the funding that the Member States and taxpayers of the United States and Europe have given to universities and research centres, which these people have used. As far as the issues of the bill are concerned, Mr President, I have heard them very carefully. First of all, allow me to identify myself with the view expressed by Mr Zavvos and I welcome it, and I welcome it, the remark that has been made about the absence of the challenge of the Association of Greek Banks in the Parliament and to identify with Mr Arvanitides' proposal, addressing the President of Parliament and you and the whole of the Bureau. You must not allow such behaviour by donor organisations and representatives, Mr President. The Greek Parliament is the popular expression. It has a source of the people's vote. It is not the position of the Members. And they cannot provoke such behaviour, because the attitude of the banking system to the invitations of the Greek Parliament is repeated. Mr President, I have also heard the Minister speak about viable companies and I have listened to Members of all the parties. Who will judge that, Mr President? If we take the history of the banking system in Greece, I will tell you from the time when I was a Member. I remember from the time of the Karamanlis - Horsemanskoufs government that a provision was passed that guaranteed guarantees and, indeed, laid a clause that would have to be a percentage of this money of the guarantees received by banks to be directed to the real economy. Where did anyone see that until today? So today, Mr President, it is confessed and recognised that there is liquidity in the banking system, that the banking system has liquidity because of the support of the European Central Bank and the Greek people of 20 billion deposits. And the question is even today, on the basis of the experience we all have, the following: the banking system, Mr President, has it chosen to support the small and medium-sized enterprises? The information provided by the bodies, the representatives - and Mr Michalos and Mr Kavathas and Mr Chatzithedisios and other representatives - is undeniable that 95% of small and medium-sized enterprises do not have access to the banking system. Does the banks want to tell us that all these businesses are not viable and that they are only 5% viable? I fear the same and wish that the recovery programme should not happen. But, Minister and Minister, if you do not strengthen the development bank more, we will certainly have the same results. Because you spoke of a successful programme, the successful programme will be judged on the result. Because if one pays attention to the way and where the money is directed, I would like to emphasise one area - and I have said it to the committee - which Greece has, the scientific staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u165	In conclusion, Mr Colleague, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u166	I shall conclude, Mr President. Greece therefore has scientific staff, reliable research centres, university and not. Greek companies that produce reliable generic drugs and have high know-how can produce a medicine and original, through new technologies, but also a generic one and Greece's export power is increased when these companies export to seventy countries of the world. If, therefore, such areas that Greece has comparative advantages, we do not support them, please tell me how you want me to believe that even a Greek scientist will come to work in Greece, if there are indeed no such positions, which will really be well paid and which will be a challenge and invitation to all these young scientists to return home. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns amendments to Law 4261/2014, which replaced Law 3601/2007 for credit institutions. Due to many additions and new laws for credit institutions and financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, many articles of the law should be amended in terms of remuneration, measures and supervisory powers and capital conservation measures. The second part also includes an amendment to Article 2 of Law 4335/2015 on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. The amendments contained are considered necessary because financial holding companies and mixed financial corporations have been established and these companies also have parent companies in different countries. Most of the amendments concern serotypes which differ. Separation of sectors and mixed finances - some are also subsidiaries of banks - create the need for these amendments contained in the bill. Among other things, supervision of financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies is also coordinated. Finally, additional restrictions are imposed for the distribution of profits. Of course, according to your best method, you have tabled several amendments, two of which are the responsibility of our committee. We need to note for many times the disapproval of dialogue in our House and with last minute's amendments you remove the right from the opposition to table proposals and arguments and, more generally, to have a serious and focused debate on the policies proposed by the government. It is well known that our proposals are not going to be heard, but the New Democracy does not even hold the pretext. In the way that the government chooses to legislate - importantly confessing articles in bulky and homogeneous amendments - it creates a suffocating framework for the opposition and we are called upon to vote as an article on two separate issues and in a limited time. The Minister of Finance said the bill is coming to connect the period after the pandemic. Really, is the same with the labour law? We know that for the New Democracy, the crisis is an opportunity. He's done it before. You take the thread from where you left it a few years ago. One of the points in the typical work model you have been trying to influence and optimize in the years of the memoranda and before is that of working time management. In the first years of the memorandum, this was accompanied by a further reduction in labour costs and a reduction in the deaths during working hours. This included the arrangements in 2010 to 2012 to reduce the cost of overtime contracted or to facilitate the implementation of flexible arrangements of the total working time and the implementation of six-day work. You are now coming to complete the complete abolition of the eighth and, indeed, working time will be arranged through individual contracts, which has not been understood by any government so far, except for the government of Mr Mitsotakis, to do. Employers and workers, the strong point of negotiation, and the weakest, respectively, have and have different perceptions of the context and structure of labour relations, while regulating basic working conditions such as the time that affects the whole range of workers' lives was guaranteed and protected. The negotiations, even on these terms, will become an attempt to reconcile each other with each other, but with different interests. But who will have the upper hand, especially in individual contracts? He doesn't want a lot of brains. Individual responsibility, individual negotiation, individual contracts, eh, and whoever can withstand. All you did then - I'm talking about before 2010-2012 - was the definitive exclusion of out-of-work walls, unemployment at 30%, downgrading them within, flexible forms of work to 30%, and the situation is now a great opportunity, even greater than the memorandum. During the operation was the competitiveness of the Greek economy, which was dismantled along with the sixty-seventh position - we reached the ninety-sixth-sixth country - in the field of competitiveness between a hundred and forty countries, according to a report from the World Economic Forum in 2012. It is at least a strange move to dismantle the working time framework, especially in a labour market that traditionally shows one of the highest indices of illegal flexibility in Europe. I mean, you think it's already ruined, instead of doing something against it. Violent restructuring in the economy through the luck-shared quarantine and over-paid small and medium-sized enterprises will meet the grand plan to create an eighty thousand jobs through the Recovery Fund, so that employment and unemployment can be found in five years from now when it was in 2019. In fact, you've exceeded our predictions too. You exceed every limit every time you try to convince that with your legislation you protect the job. That won't pass. It will be abolished on the first day of the country's progressive governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too, Mrs. Papanaceu. The speaker's circle has been completed. I will give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, to develop the amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I would like to have the floor to present to the House the amendment that we tabled of a series of ministries with a general number of 876 and a special number of 153. The seven provisions of the amendment create an institutional framework for the first time, which will deal with the preparation, adoption, coordination, management, evaluation, control and revision of the development programme of strategic public procurement, namely those of public contracts characterised as 'big added value for society and the economy'. What are we doing with this amendment? The state comes coordinates and under the continuous monitoring and coordination of a governmental Commission achieves effective coordination of all the ministries involved, all the state actors involved in strategic development action in the country. At the same time, we are creating a programme of development of strategic public procurement. This programme will be a development tool at national, regional and local level, as well as a pillar for the implementation of the single draft government policy on productive recovery, for reconstruction and for social cohesion. So, practically, what do we do? We are practically creating a development programme of strategic contracts, which will be financed both from Community resources, from national resources and from international resources, which will produce results of considerable tension in our national economy and of added value both to our country and to the citizens. This programme may include public contracts of more than EUR 50 million and, in exceptional cases, flagship projects for the national economy or for the local or regional economy, projects with a smaller budget may also be included. The Programme shall in any case include contracts financed from the resources of the European Recovery Facility, as well as projects financed by the European Union Structural Funds with a budget of more than EUR 30 million. The duration of each programming period will be five years. A competent authority for all the things I have told you is the current Government Committee on Major Works, which is renamed to the Governing Committee on Strategic Importance Conventions, to which no Minister will preside, but will be chaired by the Prime Minister. Beneficiaries of the program may be designated Ministries, Regions and Municipalities, or companies of the holding of the “Greek Participation and Property Company S.A.”, as well as any other body designated by the decision of the Government Committee. Furthermore, this proposed provision sets out the criteria for assessing and approving contracts in the programme, the procedure for submitting specific proposals by the institutions, the applicable provisions on speeding up licensing, and the possibility of helping beneficiaries to mature actions by the TSE. At this point I would like to stress that the TIAD will only help to develop the projects if the beneficiary so wishes. In other words, what do we do? We are creating an institutional administrative framework for the use of available resources, but also for the coordination of government and other actions in major infrastructure projects and critical services of public bodies in the period following the pandemic. A common set of provisions is to optimise the methods of monitoring and implementing important public procurement, as well as the full exploitation of the Recovery Fund, as well as the resources of the NRP and the achievement of maximum leverage of public and private financial instruments. Aimed and methodically, therefore, we are creating the conditions for the development and absorption of funds in the post-Koronian era. For our part, Mr President, I would ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u171	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u172	On the amendment, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u173	Wait a minute, you'll be given the floor. The amendment has come now, you will have the comfort of studying it and answering it. The Minister won't leave to give you clarification. That is the procedure, we will respect it. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. The amendment tabled by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport is accepted by the Ministry of Finance, which is why I am tabling legislative improvements to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance which we are debating in order to incorporate the amendment into the core of the plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u175	I would ask you now to clarify the amendment or whether you want us to combine it with your secondaryity in general and on it. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Eleftheriad Sultana, the rapporteur of SYRIZA, for her second-guess, and, of course, to ask, if she wishes, for clarification from the Minister for Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked, in any case, that I be placed on the amendments. I'll get them in turn. For the Foreign Ministry's amendment on the re-establishment of the Bengal Consulate in Libya, we agree. We would, as far as possible, like the Minister to think about it, adding a'substantiated commercial position', because we want there to be trade relations, and that is not provided for in the amendment. For the amendment of the Ministry of Digital Policy, this seems to be the wrong choice for you to take the Land register from the Ministry of the Environment and take it to Digital Policy. You have essentially built a ministry and provided a portfolio to Mr Stylion, but without transferring know-how at the same time, and that is why all these technical and procedural problems have been presented. As far as the amendment is concerned, although it is rough and malicious and creates problems - which now do not have the time to analyse - to the operators, because, in general and developmental terms, we are positive. As regards the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, 873, too, we will be positive, I have nothing more to say. For both the Ministry of Finance's amendments, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy again tried to make a communication game, 'If SYRIZA does not vote, we do not want tax relief' and all that we have heard is said. But we're not going to get into this trap. It is clear that the tax evasions mentioned in the amendments are mainly tax reliefs by legal persons and entities for business profits and particularly high profits. The tax relief applies to the holders, therefore, once again to large companies. For nurses, doctors, police and other low-paid employees and pensioners in the public and private sectors your government does not for once foresee anything. So you also continue with these amendments to unequal distribution and you are also burdening the budget, but again for the benefit of large capital. As far as the last amendment that has been tabled is concerned, I think that the procedure is unacceptable. It is not five minutes before we vote on the amendments and while all the speakers are finished and no one can be posted to such an important amendment, which needs to be considered. We are not all experts in these matters. Even to send it to our partners and the relevant bodies to thoroughly control it, it should have been at least an hour ago. Five minutes before we vote? Is that possible? Is that a process? You will probably force us, I do not say that if we studied it, we would vote 'in favour' not to vote on something that we would otherwise vote on. In other words, you are reducing your work and your work, since, as you said, Minister, it is something that is extremely, very important in the national interest too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs Eleftheriadou. I would just like to say that it is right that there should be no amendments at the last minute, but here, as you would have seen, and as I have read, this is an incorporation of a directive. In other words, this is secondary law, for Community law, from which we have to accept it. Of course I see the urgency, because it should have already been incorporated. It's just that it's just, okay, it's not an irrelevant matter. Is there another of the rapporteurs who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u178	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u179	Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, this is not a directive. It is a government's choice to create a separate institution, which is, of course, its right to do so, an ad hoc body which will face new investments of strategic importance, as the Minister said. Such a topic, where it will choose what projects of 50 million will go to the committees, even of less value that will be in the region, as I have heard from the positioning, is an absolutely strategic choice of a FastTrack procedure, in the government's assessment, which is respected. But such a top choice cannot come in this way. You can't do that! Imagine that it creates a new body which decides the procedures, the way they run and the way they coordinate the ministries. This is a strategic option to move forward with issues relating to the ESRB and the Recovery Fund. If this isn't a top government choice, then what is it? So coming such a minute before the end of the procedure is unjustified by the choice of the government, by which one can agree or disagree. With zero dialogue, therefore, it cannot go through such a choice. This is a strategic issue and I think that the government should have chosen a top-level process, since it is about its strategic choice to go ahead, to which there should be an absolute debate on this option. In this sense, therefore, we, and without having seen the substance of the amendment, cannot vote either positively or negatively on this amendment, because of the procedure and why no withdrawal is foreseen. I shall vote here 'no'. We can't make it acceptable. So we're going to vote negatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr Arvanitidis. Is there another of the rapporteurs who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u182	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u183	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u184	Everyone's going to take the floor. Since, Mr Heta, your rapporteur is not here, you will speak. One of the parties speaks. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, I refer to the last amendment tabled. This is an unacceptable procedure. You don't have to deal with the principle of good lawmaking here, but with the start of surprise legislature. Because that's what this is about. This amendment recommends a separate debate. We as a JRC denounce this process. It's not urgent. Is it an emergency? Could've come someone else to discuss it calmly. We will abstain from this debate on this amendment and will vote against it. I would also like to say that this is a normal procedure followed by all governments. It is also a matter of concern to the Conference of Presidents and should be resolved at some point. Amendments have been tabled which have been tabled, with seven, eight, nine Articles, and may be tabled at some point and fifteen articles. Today there is no such amendment with 15 articles. In fact, each of these articles may also constitute a separate bill. Inside, then, there are articles with which we can agree, there are articles with which we may disagree and articles that we shall vote on 'the present'. But in the end these amendments are being incorporated as a whole as separate articles in the bill. In other words, we have to vote on the whole of an amendment, and we can refer to each article separately. I say that, because there is often a misunderstanding and we want to be clean. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 871 and a specialist, we are voting against it. It is obvious that Article 4 is more burdensome than Article 5. These are provisions exempting large companies from taxes and facilitating the merger procedures of these companies. It also burdens Article 6 on the GEOGRAPHY programme. We also said in the protology that it serves the banks and their liquidity. We have raised as JRC concrete proposals for self-employed and small professionals, such as cutting interest, interest rates, high interest rates, but also 30% of the debt for those with incomes of up to 12 000 euros. As far as the amendment is concerned with general 872 and specific 150 on the reconstituting of a consulate in Benghazi, Libya, we will agree with this particular amendment. But let me say that the government must do the same by opening the Greek Embassy in Damascus and by reopening the Syrian Embassy in Athens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as Amendment No 873 is concerned, we will vote'residents' as a whole. It has two articles on fishing. The first article, in our view, must limit the action of trawlers and support the coastal people. As far as the second article is concerned, since 2004 governments have been saying that they will regulate the fishing of shrimp. However, this has not been done so far permanently and obviously people are being held hostage to governments and ministerial decisions. As far as Amendment No 874 is concerned and Amendment No 152 is concerned, we are voting against it. It also includes articles relating to freelance professionals. The first article reduces the advance payment of income tax from business activity for natural persons to 55% for the tax due in the tax year in question. For legal persons, the advance payment of an income tax from business activity to 70% especially for the 2020 fiscal year, except for banks that are kept at 100%, while for the coming years, from 2021 onwards, the advance tax is set at 80% again without including banks. The advance payment of a tax on natural persons is a Memorandum and by definition unfair law, since it taxes in advance income which may not be collected. As regards Article 2, this is a measure which reduces the taxation of profits by companies with disproportionate results in favour of the largest. Article 3 provides for the exemption for the tax year 2021 from the special solidarity levy on everyone's income, with the exception of income earned by employed persons in the public sector and pensions. The JRC's position is the definitive abolition of the special solidarity contribution. I have nothing more to add. There are other provisions, of course, but there are so many that we do not have time to develop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Synergy. Mr Hetas has the floor on behalf of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Karamanlis, how would you feel in our place? Tell us honestly by hand to the heart. Mr President, you know, we are involved in all procedures with great respect and diligence, but we feel that many times we have left over here. We're really sad and disappointed. I don't feel like talking about anything anymore, because I feel you're not respecting us. It is not possible three minutes before the end of this process today to bring in a bill concerning contracts, financing, TIAD etc. You're changing the whole structure. What do you expect us to do? Honestly, by hand in the heart, what do you expect us to do here? Say 'yes', 'no', 'no','maybe'? What can we say? We don't even know what he's saying in there. It's unbelievable! What can we do? Tell us a little bit. How would you feel in here? I feel really bad anyway. I feel, Mr President, that we are living on the day of marmotta. We say the same every time. The amendments which are coming to the rain, which are brought together by the Conference of Presidents, must make them an article. Because it is right for my colleague that there are articles in which we agree, but ultimately we cannot vote on them, because it has two other articles, which are contrary to us. The other bill will come, we'll see you again, and 16.55'll have another amendment. It is a huge amendment. What are you going to start here? What are you looking at? Respect Parliament, respect your colleagues, respect the Greek people. If we do, tell us not to eat a dozen hours in here. Come and legislate, vote by letter, what are you all doing together - and the case is over, boys. If we're bothering, we'll leave. It's unbelievable! You don't respect us. It's no longer a protest or an impression. It really is sadness about this situation. Mr President, I have already told the Minister for Rural Development that there is a matter here. I asked him and he didn't answer. So what can we ask you? As far as we're concerned, you're not answering. Whatever you want, answer where you want to answer. If you have your little card in front you will answer, if you don't have it, you will leave and we are left with the paper in hand. So we are asking, Mr President, that is very important, and I am sure that you understood it as an island what we are saying - what will say that up to six nautical miles is forbidden? So, seven o'clock can we? I ask him and he doesn't answer. He's leaving. And here, too, by law, we accept the kayalitis zone at the six nautical miles. We are! You ask him and he doesn't answer. He's leaving! Uh, okay, what else can we say? It's really a shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Logiadis from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, speed, no debate and in-depth analysis. Every time the same thing. How can we take a position? Unfortunately, it's a disgrace to me! I shall start with the bill and then refer to the amendments. It seems to me and I wonder what the present New Democracy has to do with the New Democracy of its founder, Constantine Karamanlis. Constantine Karamanlis after the dictatorship stacked the banks, stacked the Olympic Air Force, stacked the public transport. There was one possibility then to build a proper state outside clientele relations, which, of course, did not happen. And all this brought the results we see now. Today the banks are all foreign - they are not even private - and we do not have the opportunity to finance the economy. They take negative interest rates from the European Central Bank at a negative interest rate and place these funds in bonds where they have secured profits. So they don't invest in the real economy. Now, Mr. Finance Minister has given us a very nice picture. He told us about tax reductions, unemployment reductions, he told us that investment is coming, he told us about the Recovery Fund, that billions are coming, that tourism opens, that the vaccines are coming. All this is wonderful. I think it is a molded reality and I think that in the background it is an election. I will also refer to tourism, because it is now opening this weekend. The way it opens up is very dangerous, because if we have cases and the tourists come back with a coronary, our visitors, Greece will be back on a red list and this will be a total disaster. This was done last year with the English in Crete and Zante at the end of September, but, fortunately, the season had passed so the evil was small. If this happens at the beginning of the season, now that tourism starts, it's going to be a disaster. He wants a lot of attention. As far as the amendments are concerned: in Amendment 870/148, we shall say 'the present'. In Amendment No 871/149, we are negative. In Amendment No 872/150 we shall say 'the present'. In Amendment No 873/151 we shall say 'yes'. Finally, we are voting against Amendment No 874/152. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. I think everyone except Mr. Ypsilanti has spoken. Before I give Mr Ypsilanti the floor, however, I shall, by way of derogation, give Mr Katrin the floor, in view of the fact that he has time from his principal speech as a parliamentary representative. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, it is the government's right not to respect the Bureau of Parliament, but I think it is an obligation for the Bureau of Parliament to respect the parties. In this process, which we have seen happening too many times in this Chamber in the last six months - and I would like to stress, if my memory does not deceive me, that all the amendments concerning vaccination have been tabled late and just before the meeting is closed, and that shows the seriousness with which the government is dealing with - we must at some point get a barrier, Mr President. And I want you to pass on to Mr Tassoula, that what has been done in the last six months with the amendments, that is, five minutes before the debate, is offensive to the parties and colleagues. And it is also offensive to the very parliamentary procedure, and we must finally put a stop to that, the Rules of Procedure must be applied. Do you want us to invoke the Rules of Procedure now to see how the amendment has been introduced and whether the deadlines laid down have been implemented? And be careful, we are talking about an amendment concerning projects from the Recovery Fund, for which the Government is told that it has made the best proposal and the best mechanism in relation to other European countries. I wonder, Mr President: what will Mr Mitsotakis say tomorrow to Mrs Westager, who will come to visit him and come to Parliament as well? That we legislate on the recovery fund procedure two minutes before it ends an unrelated bill and without the National Representation being informed? Is that a picture of the Greek Parliament? I would ask you very much to convey the serious discomfort - not only ours, I imagine all the parties - to the President and finally to stop this bad precedent that seems to be becoming customary, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much. We'll close with Mr. Ypsilant as far as secondary education is concerned. Here, Mr. Highlands, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. The good thing about the last period of our country is that this evil precedent that my colleague just mentioned is being applied for a good purpose. I think that here, too, for this particular amendment which is coming today, the country is being called upon to face major challenges. In fact, our greatest rival is time, a year we have to fight him within these standards set by this government and decide. And she is the only one responsible for how and how it will work in order to achieve its objectives, whether through European programmes or through the Recovery Fund. The big question is that the Greek society is struggling to see work being carried out. What has been presented here in seven articles, this amendment, shows that there is a set-up, a view and a certain perception of how Greece will proceed with prospects and development from now on. The Greek society is struggling and wants results. He really wants to see the engines coming in again. And I think that with this guarantee by the Prime Minister himself, who will be in charge of this great effort, we will succeed. And it is the big bet, if we want, for which all the Greeks are invited to contribute, even though once again there is one amendment that comes at the last minute. I am not in favour of this practice, but the Greek state and its structure will, I believe, be adapted, with time and so the bad habits of decades, which have not disappeared, will sometime be gone. But that is why we must not rule out the good intention of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis by introducing this piece of legislation, this amendment, to move quickly towards the development of the country and the implementation of a large project for Europe and Greece. As far as the other amendments are concerned, I have been put in my previous speech, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say here that we have two issues. We have a formal and formal issue, and I will agree with you that we too would have liked this amendment to have brought it beforehand, and I have to apologize as Minister for that and I will do so. But let's actually go. First of all, I have not heard a criticism of the substance of the amendment. What is this amendment doing? To be clear. This amendment creates...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u196	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u197	Will you allow me to answer that question? Do you really want to hear what this amendment does?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u198	Do you blame us on why we did not talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u199	Will you allow me to speak? In a democracy you have to understand that there is a reason, there is also the opposite. You may not like this, but what should we do? That is why we have a parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u200	Is it Republican what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u201	What is this amendment doing on the substance? We have a competent government committee of large projects which has been in existence for years. This large government committee makes it a governmental coordination committee of strategic contracts, and from below we create a body under the auspices of the Prime Minister so that all strategic projects, which will be more than the sums I have described, can be carried out under a very specific control. So we have created a safeguard so that every minister cannot, as has been the case for years now, decide which public procurement will promote or what public works he will promote. This, to tell you the truth, has been happening since 2015, because every time we go to raise even a euro from European funds there is a very tight control procedure. We therefore put in a process that is central because, as we all know, the next period will incur money into our country and from the Recovery Fund and we want to be ready and as efficient as possible. Therefore, a mechanism is being created. That's what this is about. I think it is not something that can create many reactions, because it is simply coming that this mechanism helps the government to help the players to absorb more money more quickly. That's what he's doing and we're going for a step further. We turn around and say about a contracting authority and not a ministry that has many engineers or that has very large bureaucracy. A region that wants to do a project can ask for the assistance of HIDED in the development of the projects. In short, we are doing something that is happening everywhere in Europe. We are enabling contracting authorities that are unable to use many tools to mature projects. We are also giving the opportunity, however, to the very important projects. That is why you will see within the amendment that a very increased number of ministers are involved in the Government Committee so that all public procurement and major infrastructure projects are controlled very tightly. So that is the substance and I think if you read it you will understand that there is nothing to worry about. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Synatiakis, I think this is over. He replied to the comments. He came to give clarification and gave it away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u204	I believe that there is a procedural issue of the Minister's insult to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u205	This is the parliamentary procedure. In his remarks on the amendment he gave clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u206	Allow me for a second, please. Look, on the one hand this particular process has been followed, and on the other hand, the Minister blames us for not putting us on the ground. So if the Minister were in our position, would he be placed on the substance? Would he be able to study the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u207	He just wanted to justify the nature of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u208	It also raised the question of democracy, that it is not democracy to be placed on the stage of the process, but not to be placed on the substance of the amendment. These are unauthorized things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u209	I don't think Mr. Karamanlis especially is lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u210	If it wants to do so, let us say that it is a government that comes to serve business groups, to speed up investment with public-private partnerships, with concessions and everything that means for the working rights of modern Dachau, not specifically to mention what these modern Dachaus are. This is the government's development programme and all the previous governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Apostolos Vésyropoulos has the floor, as in substance the Deputy Minister of Finance, to refer to the two amendments, which have not been clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of returning to normality has already begun. The rapid rate of vaccination of the population, but also the gradual opening-up of activities, creates a new picture. It is reasonable that those who have invested in destruction do not feel comfortable with returning to normality, especially when they see that citizens' confidence in the Prime Minister and the Government remains high. From the beginning of the pandemic to this day, the government, in addition to the other measures, made EUR 40 billion in the direction of strengthening liquidity, in order to support businesses, workers, the economy and society. And this effort continues and is reflected, apart from the liquidity measures and the reduction of taxes which are the core of this government's policy. It is reflected in the government's ongoing legislative initiatives. It is also reflected in the amendment by the Ministry of Finance under the general number 874 and a special number 152, which includes provisions with an undeniably positive figure. A substantial measure to reduce tax burden imposed by the previous government is to reduce the advance payment of tax. The first article of the amendment is reintroduced to 55% of the 100% imposed by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the advance payment of business income tax for natural persons on a permanent basis from the 2020 tax year. This includes a reduction in the tax advance for legal persons and legal entities from 100% to 80% from the tax year 2021 on a permanent basis. In particular for the 2020 fiscal year, due to the particular circumstances, the advance tax payment is further reduced to 70%. The second article of the amendment provides for another commitment by the Government to reduce the rates of taxation for legal persons and legal entities. With the first tax bill we submitted as government, we proceeded with the first reduction in the tax rate from 28% to 24%. And today, in implementing the Prime Minister's announcement, we are moving towards a new reduction of 22% to take effect from the tax year 2021. The government implements its election commitments. I should also like to remind you that, for employees, pensioners, farmers and free-traders, and for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 from the 2020 tax year, an import rate of 9% was introduced instead of 22%. Substantial tax relief measure is also the one contained in Article 3 of the amendment. In particular, it is foreseen that the solidarity levy will be suspended for both the tax year 2021 for all the incomes of natural persons, with the exception of income from employed work in the public sector and pensions. Private employees, business people, property owners and farmers benefit. For the tax year 2022, income from private sector wages is exempted from the special solidarity levy. Article 4 of the amendment sets out the total amount of benefit to pharmaceutical companies, which come from the automatic refund, the so-called clawback, is to be allocated equal to five fiscal years. Its allocation shall take effect from the tax year in which the benefit arises and this measure shall apply from the 2020 tax year and for the following years. Article 5 aims to pay back the dues from local government agencies to third parties, a process which needs to be accelerated and completed. It is foreseen that for TAs that do not repay their debts to third parties by the date laid down in a decision, 60% of the State's central own resources will be retained for TAs. Ladies and gentlemen, the second amendment with a general number of 871 and a specialist of 149 contains substantial and concrete measures to support the real economy, such as extending the full discharge from the obligation to pay a rent for enterprises that have been closed with a government mandate for May as well. It is noted that the owners of these real estates are provided for direct payment in their bank account of 80% of the monthly rent for natural persons and 60% for legal persons. At the same time, for workers whose employment contract is suspended throughout the territory, the possibility of a rental of 40% is allowed for the principal residence and residence of the dependent members. It is also clarified that the supply of ambulances by private donors is exempted from value added tax in view of the specific needs created by the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago the European Commission approved the EUR 500 million State aid programme for the focus. The opening up of tourism, the gradual opening up of economic activities, the increase of deposits, the stability of the banking system and the activation of the Recovery Fund create a new, optimistic climate. This climate requires the country, the citizens need it. A small minority may move in the sphere of catastrophe, be intolerant of returning to normality and relaunching the economy. The great majority of citizens, however, have their eyes on the next day, is optimistic about the future. We are here to strengthen this climate to support the economy and society. Our message is positive, because the Greek society has rejected the division and is now looking for the positive message for the next day. This is the message of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2013/36/EU, as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, measures and capital conservation measures (L 150), incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59/EU on the ability to absorb losses and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 98/26/EC (L 150), by amending Article 2 of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015, and other emergency provisions.’ We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out to you that the vote includes the start of the bill, a hundred nine articles, six amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u214	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u215	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u216	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2013/36/EU as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, measures and capital conservation measures (L 150), incorporating Directive (EU) 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59/EU on the capacity to absorb losses and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 98/26/EC (L 150), by amending Article 2 of the n. The following provisions have been adopted by a simple majority, in principle, of Articles and all of them, and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u218	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-13-S1-commons.u219	With the consent of the House at 18.14 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 14 May 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
