ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 11-2-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its II meeting, Thursday 11 February 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law, were ratified by the Bureau: "Introduction to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 12/10/20-1-2021 by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, etc. Maryliza Xinoyankopoulou, Theanos Fotio, Panagiotis (Pananos) Skourletis, Ollas Gerovasili, Eleftherios Avramaki, Athanasios (Nashus) Athanasios, Athanasias (Syria) Readostopoulou, Evangelos Apostolos, Theodoras (Doras) Augiris, Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis, Ethanasiou Achtziou, Achariadis - Kylamenis, Socrates, Christos Giannis Giannissiou - Charalamas, Kalamas (Chalamisias), Akarianos (Kalonianou) (Kalonianos), Akarianoulis (Kalonianoum) (Kalonianoum) Ionikios, Aritanisiasias (Kalonisiasias), Akoriasiasiasias (Kalos), Eritoulisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasias) (Calos) (Chalos), Arioulisiasiasiasiasias (Colisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos), Aridou, Arioulisiasos), Ariou, Aridisiliou, Arioulisos), Arioulisos, Aridisiasiasos (Coriasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos), Arioulisos, Arioulisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, A. The reason is the first questioning Member of Parliament B1' North Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Maria - Eliza (Mariliza) Xinogiannakopoulou for 10 minutes. Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, good morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, from the first day after the July 2019 elections, the New Democracy Government began to apply the famous "roller" to labour, which Mr Mitsotakis had announced in an election. So we have seen from the very first weeks of Parliament's composition that we have had arrangements, with amendments mainly, which liberated the redundancies, abolished the protection established by the SYRIZA Government as regards contract workers. Of course, the biggest blow to industrial relations and labour rights came with the famous working law in the autumn of 2019, where it struck a great blow to collective bargaining, to sectoral contracts, to the logic of collective autonomy. And so, with a New Democracy Government, when we had come out of the memoranda, all the rehabilitation that had been achieved, in terms of labour and social issues, was struck by the SYRIZA Government as soon as we got out of the memoranda, and at last we were able to restore the blows of the second memorial that had mostly hit the workplace and the world of work, so we saw the voluntary - on the part of the New Democracy - the implementation of the most extreme and failed recipes of the International Monetary Fund. But of course the government didn't stop there. When the pandemic broke out, the pretext was for the New Democracy Government to proceed with every measure it took, on the one hand, in a restructuring of the economy itself, effectively leaving small and medium-sized enterprises in their luck and, on the other hand, strengthening large concentrations and major economic interests. There, of course, that overrun itself was the opportunity to dismantle the whole framework of work and at the same time hit the workers and their rights. Of course, every measure taken by the government is supposed to be able to deal with the pandemic, while we were told, Mr President, then that it is urgent measures, as we had warned, that it is the measures that have been taken to stay, that the New Democracy Government wants to make them permanent. Thus, the policy pursued on the one hand has fuelled the recession, reduced the incomes of workers, created a huge precariousness and thousands of invisible workers, who have not even supported but have literally put the world of work in the face of anxiety. The Pissaridis project, which is all the theoretical background to the social and labour policy of the Government of New Democracy, came then. This text, of course, is not neutral, but a guide to its policy already being implemented. So during the pandemic we saw, instead of supporting jobs, having suspension contracts, rotating work with a reduction in wages. Of course, we have heard Mr Mitsotakis also say in addressing these workers, who are really in a phase of full precariousness and anxiety for their future, that work in our country remains accurate, must be made more flexible and cheaper. That's what he told us September from Thessaloniki. Of course, here it is noteworthy that you are also a complete disapproval of Europe, at a time when the European Union, under the pressure of need, and because the crisis is not just hitting the south, has made an opening to a more 'expansive' - we could say a more centralist - policy, supporting cooperation, supporting the real economy, reaching the point of setting up the Recovery Fund, which is an important step. But you insist on the same logic, where you have reached the point in the midst of a pandemic and having dissolved the ADR, not to make the necessary checks at the workplace. So many months we insisted that you should finally think about what you are going to do in the workplace, so that you can get there now that 11 months have passed, just a few days ago, to open up a platform so that entrepreneurs and workers can ask for diagnostic tests from the EGE. That's the reality. In this reality, what policy have you said, Minister, since you took over? First of all, you have confirmed what the Pissaridis report has as a front, that you will continue with the logic of your predecessor and the central policy, of course, of Mr Mitsotakis and the government, the processing and promotion of a bill which, according to the announcements that have been made so far, comes to break down the working hours of the workers, comes to establish as unpaid overtime and to offset them, from what your predecessor has presented, with a day off and with leave, mainly comes to hit trade union rights. And here, of course, we would like to know whether you are insisting on this and criminalising trade union action. Of course, there is also the other 'large' - within introductory terms - reform, in fact, a counter-reform in the insurance system. I see here and here the Secretary-General, who has responsibility for insurance, and there we would like clarification on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance. This, of course, will be a blow to the public redistributive social security system, to the solidarity of the generations, and in particular to the'marble' for this change, the cost, eventually, will be paid by the taxpayers, the insured, the pensioners and the young people who will be in a precarious state of work and insurance. Because, of course, in repeated statements and questions we have asked us to know - and we would like the Secretary-General today to know - what the cost of this famous change is, because at the moment there is an assessment - you said that you still did not have the studies, I do not know if you have them now - that it exceeds EUR 50 billion to EUR 55 billion and you said that it will be covered by the state budget, that is to say, the bank of the insured and, of course, by the growth share. That is to say, the trouble, the sacrifice, the recovery effort and all that we live in a time of crisis will come to cover it for private insurance companies and, indeed, for multinationals. That's the reality. Of course, Minister, since the day you took up, you have referred to too much, but I will tell you what you are not talking about. You are not referring first of all to what is going to happen with teleworking. Mr Brutsis has told us since last July that there has been a framework, rather than a prepared proposal to establish the framework. We haven't seen anything. However, it is advisable that for months 50% of the workforce has been in a teleworking situation. We do not say it accidentally, it appeared in the European Parliament when your own MEPs, under a large group of BSE and the employers' European organisations, voted to suspend the implementation of a European directive on the regulation of teleworking for three years. Well, that's right. We're waiting for answers. You have not told us what you will do with the collective agreements that have expired or are to expire until March. There's nothing you're not addressing. You have nothing to tell us. You are talking about outstanding pensions and there, of course, it is the complete confession of failure as a whole of the Government of New Democracy, because the great social problem of outstanding pensions has your signature. And you come and make announcements on an initial national pension allowance, which is dubious how practicable it is, but above all you do not address the source of the problem, which is the undersubmitment of EVA, the need for its digital upgrade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. But instead, we have heard you call the EFKA a 'ravaco', in the sense, of course, of the Government of New Democracy, which devaluates the public institutions, dismantles the APRC and does not support it with consequences for the pandemic. It degrades the OAED, because in its mind it always has, as the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, the privatisation of the counselling of the unemployed and the reduction in the functioning of the OAED. And now you've been through the depreciation of the FBI. Minister, we expect clear answers on all these issues and we also give you a warning: do not think in the middle of lockdown and pandemic, with the world of work on suspension or on teleworking, of bringing these anti-corruption regulations to either work or insurance. You will find us across and across the House and in society along with the majority of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, and thank you for keeping time. MP Panagiotis Theodorikos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period 15 to 17 February. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Janakopoulos, would you like to take your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I'll take my dentistry too. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I think that on the basis of the picture that is now being formed in the Greek society and the Greek economy, it is a common place now to say that the failure of the government is totalitarian. It is a failure to manage, due to incapacity and inadequacy, but it is primarily a failure strategy, it is a failure of ideas and it is a failure of a model of development and a social organisation. I do not want to insist today on the health strand, as it is not about us. Let me just say: a few days ago a third lockdown was announced before the end of the second one. The government seems to have changed nothing, despite the time given to it by society, in the way it manages the pandemic crisis and at the same time awaits a different outcome. This is only a feature of fools, that is to do the same thing many times and to expect it to work differently. What do I mean, nothing has changed since April, May, September, October? Three issues, which relate precisely to the health part of the pandemic. Based on international studies, there are three virus transponders. Firstly, it is the means of public transport to which you have been telling us that it is not transmitted and that is why you have left them in their luck. The reality is that you left them in their luck, because you do not believe in public transport operators and your strategy is to privatise them. Secondly, it is the schools that you were once again telling us that it is not being broadcast among children, while the coronary today reaps in schools. And what did you do? In September you opened them without any security guarantee, without any smaller parts, without mass tests, without traces, without protecting the people of education, children, parents, teachers and exactly the same thing you did after Christmas that we finally led to the same result. We have led to a maximum dispersion of the coronary and a new mandatory limitation in schools. And thirdly, the transmission centre, ladies and gentlemen, are the large workplaces, the industrial areas, the factories, the banks, where the world is conspiring precisely because of its work. And what happened there? Due to the collapse of the APRC, due to the fact that you do not want to limit employers' immunity, precisely because of your refusal to control these sites, we also have the incidents of West Athens, the events of the Giannitsas, the incidents of all northern Greece, where the workers are actually harvested by the coronary. There is a strategic failure, however, in the area of the economy. While you had all the conditions you did not choose to take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity to strengthen the economy, the social state, the National Health System, that is to say to strengthen the real economy. And be careful, you have failed while you have had a regulated debt and the umbrella of the European Central Bank and the exhortations on the part of the European Union and the European Commission to spend money. Even Christine Lagard, the Governor of the European Central Bank, urged all European governments to "send, spend, spend." But you, instead of taking advantage of these possibilities in combination with the lifting of the restrictions of the Stability Pact, have taken advantage of the crisis as an opportunity for a comprehensive restructuring of the Greek economy with the liquidation of these enterprises, which you are supposedly not competitive. In these enterprises, in small and medium-sized business, you supported your election rise a few years ago and today you consider them uncompetitive and offered to be liquidated to create new conditions for accumulation in the Greek economy and a concentration of capital in the interests of great business interests. First of all, then, this is what you have done to restructure the Greek economy in the standards of the failed policy of the International Monetary Fund for 2010-2014. And of course you have cleared the labour market turbulence, as they are called in the jargon of neoliberalism and the various rapporteurs of the world. What does it mean to clear up labour market rigidities? Stimulation, clearance of labour rights, reduction of wages that are supposed to act as investment incentives for the time when we will be entering a recovery process. This is what we have described a few weeks ago as panoramic burialism, Minister. Tetchism from the panoramics why? Because at a time when all of Europe sees us entering a deep recession cycle, it chooses policies that we call - abusively possibly - centralism of the crisis, namely expenditure, supply support, support for demand, support for social structures. You are so obsessive, so ideoleptic, so generous, that you do not see that at the moment we need countercyclical policies, but you insist on implementing a failed, complex one would say, provincial-type neoliberalism. This is your problem that you have an inferiority complex. You do not see that at the moment there are other things that are necessary and continue exactly the policy of your predecessor: the dismantling of the labour market, the collapse of the world of work by abolishing collective agreements, redundancies, the release of redundancies, the abolition of the protection of contract workers, the total deregulation of work, the reduction of wages, the collapse of the EDP, with unpaid overtime in the crisis without recognising COVID as an occupational disease and natural privatizations, privatisations, privatizations and privatizations. What you did in education to serve the interests of collegeers, you come to do it today in social security to serve the interests of the large private multinational companies that are active in the field of private insurance. This is a failure of a model of ideas, a failure of a strategic nature, which has led to a recession of 11%. The social consequences are today experienced in Greek society and in the Greek economy. And it is precisely these consequences that lead to great social shifts, that lead to enormous social discontent, which must and will become a demand for left-wing governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Janakopoulos, for keeping time. Mrs Theano Fotio, MP SYRIZA, is called in Step B3' South Athens. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor. Do you want your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u7	He'll show, Mr. President. Give me five minutes for the protology, and then I'll tell you if I'll get my denology. Mr Minister, I will speak about the 'invisible' and ask you about them. First of all, for the disabled. In the midst of a pandemic, disabled workers are hitting multiples. In order to continue working, they collide in workplaces and public transport, without possibility of free testing, without prioritization to vaccination, without measures to assist teleworking. They must therefore choose or put their jobs at risk or be protected, at the price of social isolation and economic impoverishment. I would therefore ask you, Minister: what measures will you take to ensure that disabled people are able to continue to work in an uninterrupted manner? In particular, will you prioritise the disabled to vaccination? Will you provide free tests and subsidise their movement outside public transport? It must be subsidized out of public transport, or moved. Will you provide equipment and cover the connection costs for teleworking? Minister, we in the middle of memoranda strengthened the right of disabled people to work with the obligation of 15% of public recruitment to be covered by disabled people and their families, with the obligation for the first time for people with mental disabilities and mental patients not to lose their allowances when they are given work. We have created a favourable framework for COMIPs involving disabled people in public competitions. And I ask you: How many disabled places have you been covering for twenty months? Will you extend the arrangement not to lose the allowance when the disabled are employed with sensory and kinetic damage? This is very important. Minister, pandemic creates additional problems for the disabled. You've accumulated in the CCPC for forty thousand applications and more. More than half of it is for the first time the grant of benefits. I mean, they don't all have to live, they don't even get that minimum allowance. Fifteen thousand disabled people cannot complete their applications because hospitals, due to a coronary workload, are unable to grant the necessary diagnostics. So I ask you: will you immediately grant to those who have submitted a file for the benefit of a handicapped person for whom it is the only resource for life without examination by the CEPD? Secondly, will you pay a double benefit now with the third pandemic wave? You refused Christmas. Do it now. Minister, we prevented disability assessment based on the model of functionality, which the creditors wanted to impose, to cut allowances and pensions for disabled people capable of working. And we prevented this by creating the disabled's electronic file. By 2019, the electronic file of the disabled person in Thessaloniki, Athens and Patras, which abolished and 46 Euros, had been implemented. You twenty months have now frozen the expansion and restore the model of functionality with the Pissaridis project explicitly and unequivocally and with the National Action Plan for the Disabled, for their rights. What does the Pissaridis project say, Minister? Considers that in a country with 17% unemployment and 90% disabled people's unemployment problems will be solved if as many people as possible are promoted to work by serious disabilities. That's what he says. That is to say, with the same obligations and remuneration as other workers and to cut pensions or cut them off. That's it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. So behind the mammothry, the communication bubbles and the Prime Minister's over-projection, to create him a pro-disabled profile, there is a reduction in the state's spending on the disabled and, in fact, we have already seen this with the 2020 and 2021 budgets - with the two 2020 and 2021 budgets giving less money for disability, by 88 million a year - in relation to 2019, I am saying - and by 96 million less the other year, compared to 2019. I ask you directly and answer me at last sincerely why all the disabled in Greece listen to you. Do you intend to implement the model of functionality for disability and the assessment you are doing for it, which will deprive you of pensions and allowances for thousands of disabled people? We've been asking that all this time. You'll answer it unequivocally today whether you do it or not. In addition, I ask you: will you finally extend the electronic file system of the disabled person, which will now give him great potential? Just because you will be able to connect it to the electronic pass of the disabled person, who will have access to everything not only in services, not only in free benefits, not only to benefits. That's our proposal. We're getting you all the time. We're not listening to anything. Since you don't make the e-mail file, we don't expect much. Isn't that right? Instead, for national authorities, for accessibility, for 'wifes for silk ribbons', we say that we need to give money here and now for the caretaker of the disabled and the helper of the disabled. Instead of everything you say at this time, show an element of pro-pathic policy and we will welcome it. Minister, you deliberately ignore the deep recession and the poorness of hundreds of thousands of households, even of layers, which until first had a satisfactory standard of living. Because that's the peculiarity of the pandemic. The European Union has told you that too. It hits the middle, even the upper middle layers, not only the ordinary poor and extreme poor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President. So we have worked out a new tool, emergency income. But, Minister, the minimum guaranteed income is not a tool that can deal with these layers, which you have collected and which you have left in their luck with. I mean the middle layers. The emergency income we propose has two specific features. The state does not intervene on the basis of the income of each of us last year, but intervenes by defining the groups that are affected. We suggest that workers with blocks, blocs, seasonals, farmers, people with disabilities, workers with culture, free professionals, self-employed people, who have not received substantial support from the state. So what's the matter? It says the state: I intervene in these categories, and since of them there is a household, I intervene and cover the household, and I exclude all the members of the household, who have not seen any change. It's a new tool. We are taking it to the European Union. We believe that the minimum guaranteed income you even put in the Constitution is over. From now on, this is over. I invite you to give emergency income to one and a half million households, who suffer in the third lockdown and who have done nothing for them. That is why we now have this terrible recession because you have not supported the households. And if you are eventually going to apply the solidarity card, which SYRIZA proposed to the European Union, I would like to say that the solidarity card is a prepaid card. The European Union has approved it for the pandemic. You do not apply it because of your ideas, that you do not want to do things, which SYRIZA has successfully proposed and implemented, so that you continue with TEVA and do not want the people to have or the food that they need because of bureaucracy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mr Constantine Barkas is called to Stepma by SYRIZA, of course, who is elected in Preveza.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u9	A professedly failed Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsi, is succeeded by another Minister of Labour in the Government of New Democracy, Mr. Hatzidakis, who the Pissaridis project also considers it very radical. A highly neoliberal politician who considers that work in our country is overrated. And I say that he is a failure, Mr Hatzidakis, not for his first term of office in the period 2012-2015, which you remember what happened with unemployment and other things, but mainly because he is directly linked to the amazing training program of young scientists "Scoil Electoral", where six training centres are connected, the three of whom were candidates with you. Also, it is the new Minister of Labour who, during the term of office of the SYRIZA government, said that we are giving up the name of Northern Macedonia, that we are making a reconciliation with pensions. You remember those things. You're the one. Of course, you are the same one who is coming now and you are signing the agreement of northern Macedonia. Congratulations! It is an agreement that must be openly supported. And of course, we are this government that did not reduce pensions. Mr. Hatzidakis, since I'm going to start with you, and then I'm going to go to what Mr. Brutsi has done in his term of office, because you haven't even had time to do things yet. One of Mr Pissaridis' proposals in his plan is to reduce the unemployment benefit and to link it to the training plan. You have said in public dialogue that it is a good proposal. Are you thinking of doing something like that? Do you think that the unemployment benefit in our country - an unemployment allowance raised by the SYRIZA Government as a result of the increase in the minimum wage - is high - is it high and must be further reduced and linked to the 'Scoil Age' training benefits made by Mr Brutsis? When the surrender was made - the reception of the Ministry of Labour, Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Brutsi had said to Mrs. Ahtsoglou and Mrs. Fotio - I happened to be present, because I had the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate and of the OAS - that: "SYRIZA has made a very serious reform in two basic things and we will maintain that. Firstly, it is the Labour Inspectorate and, secondly, it is the OAED and the role played by the OAED in reducing unemployment through various programmes, and so on. And what did Mr. Brutsi then do? He removed responsibility from the Ministry, transferred it to the Secretary-General, which has huge successes to the Ministry - and you have welcomed it because it has huge successes - and then undermined the role of the Labour Inspectorate. Let me remind you, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Brutsi, that it was your newspapers which denounced the then State Secretary for Labour, Mr Helios, who, as Secretary General of the Labour Inspectorate, was also fined banks, which not only kept the working conditions of the workers, but made them work overtime without paying, which you are now doing, by legislating a terrible amendment. Mr. Brutsi, congratulations! You will stay in the history of the Ministry of Labour, making the judgment an opportunity, now legislating to work overtime without being paid, because they are missing from the workplace because of the pandemic. What did we do? We upgraded the role of the Labour Inspectorate. We got hired. You will recall that the president of SYRIZA, the then Prime Minister of the country, had been to the Labour Inspectorate of the APRC and said that there would be more recruitment. You lowered it. Also, to finish your lies, you lowered the OAED as well. The role of the OAED and the increased budget, which it had in SYRIZA, in order to be able to give benefits and create training programmes, you have degraded it. And not only have you lowered him, but also through the so-called reduction in employers' contributions, you have reduced the money that was going to the OAED. So you have an absolute responsibility for non-controlling workplaces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Big employers are now coming out, Mr Hatzidakis, and they're struggling you. They say to workers: "Don't listen to what the government says, you will work 12 hours and you will be unpaid, because the government has legislated them." Big chain owner goes out and tells the workers. What are you doing? You're not doing anything at all. You're looking at him in the eyes. And perhaps you agree with the view of these employers. I will come back to what you have done in the Labour Inspectorate and also to the OAED. You have an absolute responsibility. Mr. Brutsis has written with bright and bright letters his name next to "training", which was made to young scientists. And you went to give about 30 million - it might be more - to the platform owners, which were created a week ago. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr Barcas. Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos, who is elected in the Prefecture of Ilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u11	Minister, I wish first of all, 'good success' in defending public, redistributive, universal and compulsory social security. The truth is you didn't start well, Minister. You referred to the FBI and described him as an assailant. This, of course, insults your predecessor, Mr Brutsi. He offends the commander of the FBI, Mr. Hallaris and the sub-commanders. First of all, however, it offends the executives of the EVA, the directors, the managers, the heads, the workers, who daily in adverse conditions give the battle to keep public social security standing and to offer services to the insured and pensioners. You need to realize, Minister, that you've been running for nineteen months already. You didn't come yesterday. You've been running nineteen months. You've got a story already. You cannot continue to say that it is all because of the previous government, because, first of all, this is false and, secondly, it is no longer convinced. The truth is that in 2015 you handed us four hundred thousand outstanding pension claims. In 2019, in adverse circumstances, without personnel, with huge staff shortages - you had taken care of this - with empty funds - and that is why you had taken care of - we managed to deliver you a hundred thousand outstanding pensions. Now, after nineteen months of your administration, the remaining demands are four hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u12	Lies! You're serious. Don't lie like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u13	You'll see, Mr. Brutsi. I'll talk to you. Mr President, a little time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u14	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u15	At the same time, we have handed over an ECA surplus, with the improvement of electronic services, of course. It is obvious that, so far and after nineteen months, you have not made the necessary recruitments and the digital upgrade, of course, is being sought. Instead of supporting and strengthening ECA, it seems, unfortunately, that it is depreciated and degraded. The saddest, of course, will be paid by the insured and the retired. What are you doing for all this? Instead of speeding up the procedures for issuing and completing outstanding pensions, you are announcing an allowance of EUR 384. Minister, it appears that you do not take serious account of the fact that the payment of this amount should be considered first if a pension entitlement is established. If this is the case, no procedure shall be speeded up. What, then, is the purpose of granting this allowance? The amount of the national pension you have announced, in order to enjoy the general indignation about outstanding pensions, is essentially an unprecedented announcement. You have admitted, of course, that you do not know much about social security, but your partners must inform you. If the current conditions for the issue of the temporary pension apply, namely the right to benefits, age and time of insurance, then why are you announcing this allowance, since the same conditions are applied and, indeed, what you are announcing is lower than what is already provided for? The temporary pension was 60% of the pension and it was 80% and you give 384. If you give it to everyone now, have you calculated that many applications for retirement are ultimately rejected? All those whose pensions will be rejected - one in three is estimated - what will they do? Are you going to invite them to return the 384 on interest? You need to answer that. This issue of outstanding pensions is suffering thousands of pensioners and, indeed, they do not have the money to survive. Of course, you should know, Minister, that the problem of outstanding pensions is not solved by communication fissures, by fireworks or by a project manager. Your predecessor, Mr. Brutsis, had referred to pensions coming out by pressing a button. The insured are still waiting for it. In order to accelerate the award of pensions, the recruitment of staff and the digitisation of the insurance history is necessary. If you really want to solve the problem of social security and outstanding pensions, listen to the people who know about this. I fear that especially for the necessary staff support you will not do anything. You specialise in redundancies by public bodies and not in strengthening them. You specialize in the depreciation of public services and bodies. You specialise in privatising public services at the expense of the public interest. It is clear that you will be very committed to privatising subsidiary insurance, that is, the implementation of the Pissaridis project. We are sure that you will not hesitate at any time to put today's supplementary pensions at risk and you will not hesitate at any time to jeopardise the contributions of today's insured persons, the contributions of young people. These will now be placed on the markets and stock exchanges. No one will guarantee that at the end, when it comes to retirement, these contributions will exist. Really, Minister, who will pay the cost for the billions that will be transferred from the Treasury to private insurance? State budget again? Tax payers again to get private people rich? You have to tell the Greek people the truth. You have to say that the burden of this transfer will be reinstated by the workers and the insured. But you should explain why the insurance system has a problem. Here, a year ago, Mr. Brutsis said from this Step, that it was resolved with Law 4670/2020 for ever the problem of sustainability in insurance until 2070. Isn't that what you were saying, Mr. Brutsi? Now, after a year, you come along and say, "He has an insurance problem and he needs reform." Why? Since I referred to Law 4670, did you really vote for the law, Minister, when will you apply it? I will mention five provisions which have not been implemented. Five! Pensioners who have thirty years of insurance wait a year to see the increases. Isn't that right, Mr. Brutsi? Increases are expected for those with insurance for more than thirty years. And you have to give it to them. They're in your law. But they haven't seen them yet. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners are still working and waiting to see the penalty cut from 60% to 30%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u17	You agree. I know. You know the issues. They haven't seen her yet...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u18	It's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u19	Yeah, but they haven't seen her for a year, Mr. Brutsi. We say, yes, do it. But why don't you do it? So this is the second wait. Third wait. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners are still waiting to see the decisions of the Council of State, which considered your own provisions unconstitutional in law 4093/2012 and 4051/2012 to be unconstitutional. What were the decisions of the Council of State for the nine months of June 2015-May 2016? Gentlemen, subsidiary and gifts. Only retired people who receive over 1,000 euros have seen the retrospective returns for this eleven-month period. Only them and no one else! Hundreds of thousands of pensioners a year ago are now waiting to see the main pension paid on the same day as the subsidiary. Mr. Brutsi, n.4670. You announced and implemented the consolidation of the EMFF with the EIF. Why did you do that? For retirement to come out the same day. That's what you said. They're still waiting for retired people to see it a year later. And the last provision you have not implemented: Those who are retired with parallel insurance and successive pension a year await the increase in their pension. It's contained in the law. You haven't implemented it. When do you say it's the software's fault, never that there are no instructions from the Ministry. The pensioners, however, have not seen the increase. Really, Minister, you have to say when your law will be implemented. The excuses are easy. The truth is, however, that in the nineteen months of your administration you have led social security to a dawn. You don't even apply your own law. I've explained it to you. I come to the last question now. Can't you help public social security or do you not want to? Are you pursuing her slandering, redeeming and ineffectiveness? Do you want to drive insured and retired in despair and indignation? Do you, in the end, want to prepare the ground so that the'savourers' can come, the private insurance and the project managers? It reminds us of all this, Minister. Yesterday - and I conclude, Mr President - in an anti-democratic outburst you have hired a thousand special guards in the universities. Minister, an employee of the FBI can make up a thousand pensions in a month. If these thousand, who you hired, were EVA officials, in a few months' time the problem of outstanding pensions would have been solved. So you don't want to help social security because it obviously causes you neoliberal allergy. We're waiting for the answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou is called in Stepma, who is elected in the Magnesia Prefecture. Do you want your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hatzidakis, I do not know if you share what I am about to say, but I see the formation of a trend in Europe. And the most interesting thing is that this trend seems to be embodied, in the end, and conservative governments. According to the Commission, the exit from the pandemic's economic crisis must therefore be based on the creation of high-level and high-value jobs. This, on the one hand, requires not only better protection and maintenance of existing jobs but, on the other, more deepening, improved working relations. But it presupposes, Mr Hatzidakis and something else. Employees with high educational qualifications, graduates with postgraduate and doctoral qualifications, when you just voted for the drastic reduction in admissions to higher education yesterday. So what is your reaction, Mr Hatzidakis, to this unprecedented health crisis with the scary symptoms in the economic and labour field? Instead of protecting work, instead of improving labour relations, the New Democracy's choice is to take advantage of this crisis as an opportunity to impose a major restructuring on the labour market, a major restructuring in labour relations. I imagine that the Prime Minister's choice to put you at this post, Mr Hatzidakis, as a man with a special mission - you specialize in these missions - testimonies and an attitude of acceleration, specialisation, codification of this strategy. So instead, Mr Hatzidakis, you have to rely on Greece on labour costs every day, so that unemployment can simply be supported. So, what's the message you're sending to business? That I will relieve you of labour costs if you proceed to suspend employment contracts. I like to talk to you, Mr. Hatzidakis, for example. You will allow me to mention a few examples, which I meet every day in the Magnesia Prefecture. The most characteristic example, which we have seen recently and we have asked you in the Ministry of Labour, is that there are now dozens of complaints from workers in Magnesia - I imagine the same is happening in other prefectures - according to which employers are asking employees to hand over EUR 534 that receive as a special allowance for their job to be suspended, so that they can then return 50 euros a week for their expenses on the grounds of the contribution they make to the efforts to save businesses and to maintain jobs. Do you know just what that means, Minister? That the employees of these enterprises with 200 euros a month are trying to survive themselves, but also their families. Where is the state protection against these people? Where are the checks to be carried out every day in order to limit these events? Do you know why this is happening? Because very simply by the attitude you have taken with regard to the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprise - in fact, you have left them intact - you have introduced a terrible automation in which the employer turns against the worker and the worker is forced to denounce these actions. You have stated that you will finally be subsidising those employed in tourism, food and other seasonal occupations. However, Mr Hatzidakis, you have made it as a prerequisite that, beyond the 50 days of work, eighty days have taken place each year, in the previous two years, before the end of the subsidy as new subsidized. Well, in 2020, you do not know that almost the year for people in these categories has been lost? Is it possible to complete the eighty working days due to the circumstances of the pandemic in the year 2020, to shape these conditions so that they can obtain this subsidy? We have tabled an amendment to you, which we did not accept, to extend the duration of the regular employment subsidy, the long-term unemployment benefit and unemployment assistance for the year 2021, without restrictions. You didn't accept her. You have avoided once again practically supporting the vulnerable group of long-term unemployed in this unprecedented pandemic crisis. Equally important is the issue raised by Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulou earlier. What is happening with the issue of health surveillance of workplaces, particularly large industrial units? It is still a recent example of Italy. Do you know what happens up to today to workers from very large companies? They consistently denounce that until today in the Greek region, at least at the level of the Magnesia Prefecture, there has been no step of the EGE in order to carry out mass preventive checks. Here's how they're transformed into workplaces. Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, I think SYRIZA had left you the best deposit. In addition to the'safety pillow' that created an awful stock, in addition to the resources available from the exceptional support from the European Central Bank, there are tools available to maintain the existing situation in the field of work - to strengthen - and improve working relationships. Do you know what the problem is to date, Mr. Hatzidakis? There is no political will to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Meikopoulou. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou, elected in Kavala, will close the curiosity of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the labour market has created an unbearable situation and potentially explosive to society whose consequences are already apparent. This situation has been created by your own fault because of your own political choices, as you have led the labour market to complete deregulation and you have allowed extreme labour exploitation by employers. The change of the institutional framework and the substantial abolition of the possibility of going, a union, unilaterally in arbitration to conclude a collective labour contract, the abolition of the right to dismissal, the abolition of the regulation of the liability between a contractor and a contractor have already provided your intentions since September 2019 and what is going to happen. The pandemic was just an opportunity for you and it worked as an accelerator for the implementation of your neoliberal policies, but which you would otherwise apply. So today, atypical flexible forms of employment have been made out of the exception to the emergency needs of the company, so that three out of ten workers receive a wage below the minimum, which is already below the levels of poverty, 12% of workers receive a monthly salary of EUR 200 and I am deducting from all those who work 'black', literally for a piece of bread. Today, then, contract labour relations, typical or informal, real or virtual, dominate the labour market. The unemployed are blackmailed by employers and contractors and accepts exploitation in order to integrate and remain on the labour market. Today, not only small businesses, but also entire factories, even high-risk, such as the Chemical Fertiliser industry in Kavala, Mr Hatzidakis, the doomed Mr Laurentiadis - you know very well - operate only with fixed-term workers and contractors, covering all the sites of the plants, covering fixed and fixed-term needs, with far-reaching and at risk of a serious accident. The RCF, as well as your Ministry, and your predecessor, and you know it and you allow it. Today, employers have invaded even within the workers’ home itself, overseeing and regulating their lives in the most authoritarian way, and this has terrible consequences for both their families and their mental health. You refuse, despite your promises to legislate a strict framework for the operation of teleworking. You are challenging and bringing with the Pissaridis project even greater flexibility, even lower labour costs, forgetting that there is an employer's infraction, forgetting that 73% of the employees do overtime every day. You forget that according to a report by the Institute of Nikos Pouldzas, 35.1% of the employees state that the employer violated labour law. Constantly turn green light on employers to dissipate and make Labour Law Barrier. Nowadays, nineteen sectoral employment contracts have expired or expired until March, nine homogeneous, one dietary, four hundred collective labour agreements. In some cases, the three-month meteorology has begun, but with the second lockdown in progress, the start of the negotiation becomes practically impossible. SYRIZA and the trade unions have been telling you since May to extend the legislative power of all contract terms until the end of the pandemic. Also, by letter to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour asked you after the expiry of the exceptional measures to be granted to workers and employers, at least, time with the envisaged legislative extension of the conditions for negotiation with a view to concluding collective agreements. Already, Minister, several employers unilaterally apply the PHS 6/2012 and call on workers to modify their individual contracts, with a risk of cutting legal earnings, which do not fall within the limited scope of the re-energy of their terms. And I ask you, Minister: do you intend to stop this financially deadlocked and antisocial deregulation and elasticisation of work without limits, without rules and without controls? Do you intend to stop the abolition of trade union rights and the effective abolition of collective bargaining? Do you intend to extend the validity of collective agreements, which have expired and give enough time to unions and federations to conclude collective labour agreements? Do you intend to do these or will you continue to place, act, legislate only as representative of business groups, as did your predecessor? We're waiting for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis, has the floor for his prototype. Irony and courage and the new ministry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vedals of the issues raised are, of course, very large. I shall therefore try to respond to what many issues have been raised. On the issues I am not going to deal with, the Deputy Minister, Mr Panos Tsakloglu, will refer in particular to insurance matters, and of course, we have a second language then to comment on further issues. I would like to make it clear from the outset that the government's policy on the workplace is concise that we do not believe in the distribution of poverty, but in the increase in the income of workers. At the same time, we consider that there can be no worker without business on the one hand, but on the other hand there can be no company with the workers on the tiles. New Democracy is a wide-ranging people's party based on votes of entrepreneurs, particularly small and medium-sized, free professionals, scientists, workers and the unemployed. And you can't deny that. I will not only mention what is happening to various trade unions, and what is the representation of SYRIZA, the organisations that SYRIZA has, but also to all the polls that were published before the last elections, but also after the elections, where, while SYRIZA is constantly swinging the finger towards our side, it seems that his complaint is constantly falling and his difference from the complainant from the same New Democracy is constantly widening. In any case, that is what we see. It is a modern, European conception that we wanted and we want to support, in order to attract investment to Greece from Greek and foreign investors, so that new jobs can be created and that there is growth and advancement at the place, particularly for the benefit of the workers and the unemployed. And so we started, only that both of us and all the other European governments and all governments around the world found this calamity - the biggest post-World War - of the coronary. We have also reacted to this disaster as a government as a whole. I will not go into the overall government policy, because that is why there have been repeated debates in this Chamber. I will say that only from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have so far been given - not from me, because I am a month at the Ministry of EUR 3.5 billion for workers, and this budget every week that passes is growing. Because today you will see that I will announce new measures. Well, this policy, if you'll excuse me, but no matter how one stands against thundering - to which a colleague from SYRIZA spoke - e, thuts policy you're not saying it! It is politically in line with what is currently happening throughout Europe. Greece is spending more than the European Union's average on Gross National Product and this policy will continue because it is a policy in the context of its budgetary tolerances - we are neither Switzerland nor Sweden - in order to move the canvas and to move in the best possible way in the next day. I wonder what the policy proposed by SYRIZA is. All I remember in particular last year was that all the money we had in the funds should have given it up to last May - June - and so on in the second wave to remain unarmed. The only concrete suggestion from the SYRIZA I remember is this. From there on, there are various other things from time to time, which have the credibility of SYRIZA's promises before 2015, which abandoned them overnight. Ladies and gentlemen, for a year we have supported and supported professionals and workers, businesses in this unprecedented state of pandemic and incarceration that we all experience. The measures we take are adapted in line with the development of the pandemic and the needs it creates. For this reason, the insurance contributions for enterprises and freelance professionals relating to the first period of quarantine and for which a prolongation of payment had been granted until 30 April 2021 are again until 31 December 2021, i.e. until the end of the year. At the same time, by means of legislation, which will soon come to Parliament, we are setting a special framework for repayment of these debts, with a choice between twenty-four interest-free instalments or forty-eight instalments at an interest rate of 2.5% and starting payments of 1-1-2022 instalments. With this scheme we are also in line with the tax debt arrangements announced by the Ministry of Finance, creating an integrated framework for protection for businesses and, of course, for workers who work in these enterprises, because they are earned indirectly but clearly the workers themselves too. With regard to the already regulated corporate debt, we continue to give monthly extensions to their payment. The decision to extend the debts of January will be published directly in CVT, and we are making a corresponding decision in February with the same CVTs affected in January. The aim of all these measures is to deal with the consequences of pandemic and workers and businesses on the next day as smoothly as possible. I think it is another measure of the government in the context of our possibilities, which relieves both businesses and workers. You also know that we are constantly updating the measures we take to tackle the pandemic. Recently, the day before yesterday, fifteen measures were announced on the part of the Ministry of Labour concerning the new period which we have before us with the new emergency measures. Prior to the announcement of these measures, in relation to suspensions of contracts of employment - a successful measure, and I must stress this - it had been announced that the scheme will now be a pre-standard one. There will be a pre-nomination of contracts of employment in order to ensure greater transparency and avoid any abuses, but a series of other measures will be implemented, in cooperation and with the competent authorities. For example, in the next few days, a platform will operate through which employers will declare all their staff and workers - who wish it - will be able to do free, twice a month, rapid test covered by the state budget. I say this for example, because there must also be information from all interested parties. Also, in the context of these measures, I would like to point out that we are in constant contact with the Ministry of Health and with the vaccination centre, so that any additional measures are taken, as pandemic develops, focuses on one region when in another, so that there is all the flexibility involved. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a criticism of the alleged analgesia of the government - it has become the caramel of SYRIZA for many years - and the consequences that our policy has had on unemployment. What's the impact? Let us see how unemployment has increased this last year. Look at the variations in all European countries. Comparatively, I'm saying again. I'm not saying absolute numbers. One does not rush to say that we are claiming that we have lost unemployment. In relation to the variation in unemployment, after Italy we have the second best performance. That is why you are criticizing us! Somewhere criticism must have some limits. Because, I told you, the measures I have just described, in particular the measure to suspend contracts of employment, have obviously had a positive effect. And that no man who has elementary contact with the space can deny it. What will happen from now on is something that we are watching every day. We're not reassured. Circumstances are not the usual ones. There's no doubt about it. We don't think we have the crisis in our pocket, that we're magicians and tachychists, and we're dealing with it all. We are monitoring them and we will continue to monitor them. I'm telling you what's happened so far, though. And in that I think, because the numbers speak for themselves, that there can be no second opinion. I'm going to another chapter dealing with the labour relations bill. Yeah, we're bringing in a new law on industrial relations. Why are we bringing it? Because the Labour Law in force in our country, its main torso, has been valid since 1982, when there was not only teleworking, there was no internet. Previously, Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos has called on us to bring in arrangements for teleworking. Yes, well, to you who disagree now that we bring a bill of this kind, I tell you that in this bill we will satisfy Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou's request and we will have the arrangements for your work. We therefore welcome you and protest! Pick what you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u26	What else you'll bring!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Janakopoulos, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u28	You're not satisfied with anything. And besides teleworking, we will bring forward - and we will see how you will be positioned - and arrangements in relation to parental leave to modernise the relevant regime and extend them to fathers as well. Is that negative? Is it something that hurts workers? We'll see how you fit in it. Why did we see and how you were placed in the reduction of insurance contributions, which was a fundamental increase in wages for workers, more money in their pockets and which you voted against, the party that cares about workers, supposedly! And of course, we will bring arrangements for trade unionism, common sense arrangements, so that there can be transparency, obviously. Because I do not know whether it honours the union which we saw at the GFCM conference last year with the incidents between trade unionists and the accusations on both sides. Should a government be indifferent? Should we allow this phenomenon to develop? Is it for the labour movement? Is it for the workers? What do you suggest? Do we continue to deny the GFCM conferences and I do not know where else, because this is a picture of a modern European country? These arrangements will have and will obviously have adjustments to European data on issues such as the adjustment of working time. I know you're gonna hurry before you see the bill, report us. But I warn everyone who is ready to criticise: we will be on the European average, ladies and gentlemen! If you do not like Europe, indicate us an area of the planet that you like. And, of course, there is another big issue, which unfortunately in recent days is topical, sexual harassment at the workplace and violence in general at the workplace. The government will take an overall initiative on this issue, on the issue of violence in the workplace, but we too have a loose end on our part, from the Ministry of Labour, on the establishment of the ILO, the International Labour Office. This issue will be dealt with as quickly as possible. I am going to comment further on the APRC, the Labour Inspectors' College. So I say to you that the APRC steps from March to December 2020 carried out fifty-four thousand nine hundred 11 controls throughout the territory, of which twenty-six hundred thirty-four were concerned with the respect of the emergency measures due to the pandemic, such as the distribution and use of personal protective equipment, the maintenance of workplace distances, etc. I am also telling you that the next time the aid of the APRC is under way with a hundred and twenty inspectors - today it has about seven hundred fifty employees in the APRC, to have a size class - as fifty-four recruitments have been approved through APPs and sixty-seven mobilitys through mobility. The EDP audits will be intensified, taking into account the pandemic data and the history of infringing individual sectors of work. The new measure we announced on the prior notification of the suspension of contracts of employment will help significantly in the work of the APRC. It goes without saying that controls on undeclared and undeclared work remain a priority. We are also stepping up the technological infrastructure used by the APRC using a web platform and portable tablet - to be distributed to inspectors. I would also like to mention the issues of training. Are there any problems with training in Greece? Sure. No one's denying it. They are time-consuming and I have pointed them out - at least personally - since I was a Member of the European Parliament. There was a time-consuming problem in the question of training. Let us all accept that there was a matter and we all have time-consuming responsibilities. We're starting to deal with it. You will see that the government will shortly take an initiative for a draft law on training, so that we have a modern European framework on this issue. You will also see this new philosophy reflected in both the Recovery Fund and the NSRF. Basically, what we are interested in is a connection between the pay of all those who provide training and the results of training. We don't want to throw money out the window. So this is our pursuit. We are determined to proceed as quickly as possible in this direction and to do everything that I have told you so far. As far as the unemployment benefit is concerned, what I said - and I saw that the 'SGEI' has made it a headline - is that we are studying to see how we will make it more effective. So, by the way, I would like to ask SYRIZA, as you raised the matter again. What do you think, that unemployment benefit works perfectly? Because whenever I get on TV, all my questions are about the long-term unemployed in relation to the coverage of the unemployed. What do you think? That the system works perfectly? If it works perfectly, tell me, so that now that we are preparing, and we have different thoughts, I can take it into account that SYRIZA thinks nothing should be changed. What we are looking at is to see what is going on in other European countries and how this benefit can work more effectively - for whom? - for the unemployed themselves, because we are interested in this. I move on to the issues of the disabled, to which Mrs Fotou referred earlier. I have here a long list of what he did and what the government plans to do in this particular matter. I just want to talk a little too little, because I have already exceeded my time. I'll come back and then, if I have to. I will not tell you that I myself happened to be the rapporteur for the general Structural Funds in the European Parliament, just before I was elected as a Member, when on my own initiative, the accessibility of the disabled was introduced to the NRV as a precondition for all projects to be eligible. I will tell you that now a few days ago I announced that a thousand seven hundred people will be hired to the public, including many disabled people, on the basis of Law 2643/1998, for whom you had done absolutely nothing! So while you have done nothing, and that is why the matter has been pending, you have come and left the government. I will also tell you that we are implementing flagrant initiatives, such as establishing the staff assistant on the one hand for the disabled, and on the other hand for the disability card, for which you have also done nothing, nor has there been any planned from the previous political leadership. You, the prosecutors, had done absolutely nothing. In addition, Mrs Fotio is taking part in legislative intervention which she has actually promoted, but has never actually implemented. He left them with ponds, such as the national mechanism, the framework for adoptions and assumptions and the provisions of Law 4488/2017. These are very specific. I cannot bear this in mind: all right, you are critical of the government's ideological orientation. That's your right. Obviously, we disagree on too many things. But at last, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, can you question that we have sensitivity even to the disabled? So you're not even able to identify a political opponent? Hey, for God's sake! At some point this party fanaticism must have some limits! I'm hanging up with the insurance business. I shall make a few very brief remarks, because Mr Tsakloglu will make a much more extensive position. Evidently, the Brutsi law was in a very positive direction and came to correct the sins of the Katrugalu law. In four, at least, points were declared unconstitutional by the Council of State. Or am I wrong? Or are these decisions of the Council of State in my imagination? And, of course, he had arrangements that were correcting beyond unconstitutionalism and injustices. I do not have the time to mention them, but it is obvious that it was a law which is positive and which we will obviously implement in full. On the other hand, it is a pretext - and it has not been denied either by Mr Brutsi - that the economy and society are evolving. The figures on which the insurance was structured in the 1930s in Greece are quite different from those they are today. Then we had four employees who supported a pensioner. Today we have a worker who supports a retired person. Are we gonna close our eyes on this? Of course, there is the public pillar and the intervention of the Brutsi Act was in that direction. Apart from the basic pillar, however, on the key issue of supplementary pensions - which Mr Tsakloglu will then speak about - there is also the second pillar and the third pillar. We are all looking at this on the basis of what is happening again in European countries. And I would stress that we will not bring in arrangements that will be our patent. The arrangements that we will bring will be regulations which already apply in tens of European countries. Now, if you want to make criticism of this, too, do it. Everyone assumes their responsibilities. I would like to point out that in 2017 you were committed to getting the digital pension. As long as you saw the digital pension, it was seen even more by Greek citizens than by you. They didn't see it either in 2017, in 2018, or in 2019. The first digital pensions began to be awarded last year. It's over and out. There's no second conversation about this. You also said that you gave us fewer outstanding pensions than those that exist today. Oh, no? Where did you get that? In summer, August 2019, the main outstanding pensions were a hundred ninety thousand, far more than they are today! The assistants were still eighty-eight thousand. That's the reality. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Therefore, when you speak from the Step of the House, have your own different position. But you cannot present false facts. Even more, if we include pension recalculation, widow's pensions and a series of other unfinished cases, the outstanding cases we received were one million and fifty - nine thousand! That was SYRIZA's record! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I am not proud of the situation of EVC, because EVC - I have also said it in the media - is the continuation of IKA, TEBE and all other problem funds, which have been afflicting Greek citizens for decades. So I accept that there is a problem and we are trying to deal with the problem that we inherited from you and you inherited from all previous governments. What's our difference? That while I understand the problem and try to solve it by building what Giannis Vroutzis did and speeding up the efforts, you come to your pink cloud and say: "The problem over SYRIZA days was not there. EFKA was a turbo which went with 200 miles an hour. All problems had been solved. Retired people had no issue at all. The disabled had no issue, etc.’ Hey, you're in SYRIZA's world! And you will remain in this world, along with your stay, of course, on the chairs of the Opposition, because these perceptions obviously become understandable not only to all the voters, but also to your traditional fanatical voters. You are victims of your arrogance, of engraving yourself and of a peculiar public opinion that cuts you off from society. That's your problem. Take care of it. We will be looking at the major social problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u29	The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has been particularly unfortunate at the time of the pandemic crisis. After a decade of deep crisis, the assessments of international houses and organizations showed that in the medium term the country's development prospects were very good. Unfortunately, the picture changed with the advent of the pandemic. Since the beginning of the pandemic and since there have been no drugs and vaccines in all countries, at least in all developed countries to limit the expansion of the pandemic they have adopted traffic limitation measures and economic activity. These measures have had serious economic consequences and have therefore been accompanied by efforts to support businesses, workers and the living standards of the population in general. The same happened in Greece. The Greek Government has already shown its determination and political will to support the multi-faceted support of the firms affected and obviously the workers in them. Since the beginning of the pandemic, sixty-two categories of measures have been planned, totalling EUR 31.4 billion. Of these 24 billion, that is about 15% of GDP, are 2020 and 7.5 billion, which if required may be increased, are expected to affect the financial result of 2021. This is in response to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr Janakopoulos earlier, who told us that the government did not take steps. In fact, I would like to stress that all these measures were not taken by a government in a country where the debt to GDP was 10%, 20% or 30%. It has been taken by a country which already has a high ratio of debt to Gross Domestic Product. The main feature of the pandemic crisis was and still is the highest level of uncertainty. Some - and I am referring to SYRIZA - were urging us to resort to forward programmes which would certainly exhausted the resources available in a short time. Fortunately, these exhortations have not been heard and as the pandemic's development has proved to be a struggle of endurance and not a race of speed. One of the main objectives of the measures taken was not to increase unemployment significantly. Were these effective? Mr Hatzidakis has already been mentioned. I am not saying that unemployment in Greece is low, very high, but from all European countries, which have taken similar measures, Greece has the second percentage after Italy of lower unemployment growth from the beginning of the pandemic to October 2020 for which we have comparable data. Is that a reason to celebrate? The answer is certainly not. But surely it's a reason not to meditate. The government is aware that the next day after the end of the pandemic will not be easy and we are already preparing with various policies for the smoothest possible transition to the post-COVID era. I now come to the question of the reform of subsidiary insurance. In the Ministry of Labour we are currently preparing a reform which will radically change the system of supplementary insurance for young people. From a public distribution system of ancillary insurance we move to a public sector - I stress it - a capitalising ancillary insurance system. For the first time in our country, we really give the insured person the opportunity to get his pension on the basis of the contributions he has paid, we give him the opportunity to see the trouble of his work today being capitalised and building tomorrow's future. You've heard young people say they'll never retire. Well, we are working precisely to overturn this perception. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, takes place within the framework of social security, within the public system, without making any discounts, neither on the State's guarantee of pension rights, nor on the protection of the risks of disability and death, and of course with the protection of current pensioners and workers. We are doing this not only because our Constitution demands it, not only for this reason, but because we believe deeply in public social security. At the same time, however, we understand that our system needs to be modernised so that it can meet the challenges we have to face. The new fund that will be set up will manage the contributions of the insured, will be a legal person governed by public law, and this will be the only body responsible for investing in subsidiary insurance contributions. The subsidiary insurance was, is, is and remains with the reform the second leg of compulsory social security for the first pillar of the insurance system, as our Constitution explicitly defines. Why do we consider this reform necessary? It is essential for four main reasons - there are other reasons: The first is that today's social security in our country is exclusively distributed. Mr President, supplementary pensions, even the ones we give, are at the outset the distribution. In other words, in theory, the contributions of the insured are paid by pensioners. These systems work well when we have many employees, a few pensioners. They begin to have major problems when this relationship is overturned. This relationship, to which Mr Hatzidakis referred earlier, has been overturned many years ago in Greece. Our country has been through this for many years. Its population is one of the oldest in the European Union and our pension system is deeply exposed to the so-called demographic risk. By adding a capitalisation pillar to subsidiary insurance, the differentiation of demographic risk is achieved and the negative effects of ageing are reduced. The second is about the fact that the current social security system does not at all help the development of the country. Indeed, yesterday in a very important speech, Mr Yannis, he explained why this system has become a brake on the economic development of the country, but I will not go into it now. With the proposed reform a significant part of the contributions of the members of the new system will be invested in the Greek economy, resulting in higher growth, increased employment and improved productivity and wages. The third reason is that comparative studies show that, over the long term, the returns of the capitalist systems are higher than those of the distribution systems, such as the existing one, and indeed, they are much higher than distribution systems in old societies such as ours. Therefore, with the new system, we guarantee higher pensions for future pensioners. And the fourth, which I mentioned earlier, is that this is how we regain youth confidence in social security, offering strong counter-incentives to their participation in uninsured economic activities. I would like to stress that the pensions of the existing system are not in any way affected and will continue to be calculated exactly as they are today. This is what creates the cost of transition, what Members of the SYRIZA have referred to earlier, for which circles are making a constant reference. But one difference. This is the so-called gross cost of moving towards the new system. Why is it the gross cost? What did I say before? I said earlier that an important part of the resources of this new system will be directed towards investment in the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the engine of growth has been and always remain the investment. Investments in our country as a percentage of the GSP are the lowest in the whole of the European Union. Higher investment means higher growth, higher productivity, higher employment, higher wages. These in turn mean increased social security contributions, but also increased taxation, both directly and indirectly. You are well aware that for each unit of growth in GDP more than half of the unit returns to the public in these three ways, which I have said before, direct and indirect taxes and social security contributions. Only when these additional revenues are deducted from the gross cost of transition results in the net cost which is expected to be negative over time, i.e. the benefits of overcompensating the costs. However, in order to have an accurate picture of the impact of the social reform on the public finances, three studies have already been commissioned which will be submitted with the relevant bill when it comes to a vote in Parliament. One is a proportionate study for the calculation of the gross cost, which I mentioned earlier. The second is a macroeconomic study which, among other things, will assess the financial implications of the reform. Finally, we want an analysis of the sustainability of public debt. In addition to these two figures, precisely because of higher growth, the denominator of the debt ratio to Gross Domestic Product is also affected. I am now passing on to your question about the impact of reducing contributions on the functioning of the OAED. First of all, let me remind you that in 2009 Greece had the highest rate of non-wage costs among the countries of the European Union, and this index increased during the first years of the crisis. The high non-wage costs create a serious disincentive to employment, which former SYRIZA ministers had backed it up, even though they did not do anything to reduce it as a government. That was why, in the period 2012-2015, the government of cooperation, New Democracy and PASOK, made a significant reduction in insurance contributions, but it was overturned by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. At present, Greece is approaching the European Union's average. The reduction in insurance contributions is expected to create incentives not only for maintenance, but also for increasing employment and especially for declared work, creating revenues for both the insurance funds and the OAED. Apart from the increase in employment, the reduction in insurance contributions also entails small but not negligible wage increases, making wages less burdensome for enterprises and more attractive to workers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u31	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u32	In your position, furthermore, you imply that the Government aims to weaken the role of the OAED as a whole. No more untrue. Significant resources for measures to improve the quality of the economy's human resources through OAED are available through both the ESDP and the Recovery Fund. Especially for the latter, I would remind you that the four pillars of the Greek Recovery and Resilience Plan include the crucial pillar of employment, skills and social cohesion. As part of the successful support for this pillar's actions and policies, the OAED is the government's most competent operational body, which will take over the vastly large part of the respective critical actions. Finally, there is also provision for the successful implementation of all these policies for the gradual digital transformation of the agency so that it can soon become a public employment agency, which will provide citizens with genuinely high-level services. I shall refer to the issues of the heavy and unhealthy professions and of COVID -19 as an occupational disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the Parliamentary Representatives. The first is the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with a comment and then come back to others, in relation to what Mr Tsakloglu said. He said that our country was unfortunate because of the pandemic because it had serious development prospects. I imagine that these development prospects did not have them from July 2019 until the beginning of 2020 undertaken by the new government in this period. You obviously recognize that there has been a whole business of exiting the memorials. The vicious circle of memorials you and PASOK have taken us. That confession, honestly, I accept it. It's just that I agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u35	See the bond market after the European elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u36	Apparently, you didn't receive chaos, you didn't receive any unreliability. You have received a regulated debt. You have received a development course which you have stirred up. I would remind you that the recession had just appeared before the pandemic in Greece and that is no accident. It is because of the specific options you have made in the workplace and you have prematurely led the economy to the recession. You said, in fact, that, on the basis of your plan to privatise subsidiary insurance, resources will be released that will invest in the economy. Watch out, because last investment around insurance issues was the ones that were related to stock exchange and structured bonds. So we have to be - if you want - very careful when we talk about investing the funds of the insurance funds. There is a question of new resources in the insurance system. This is the greatest problem of our time. And in that respect, you have nothing to tell us. Can I give you an idea and study it if you want? We are a country that has incredible archaeological sites unexploited. We can therefore look at, on the basis of the Archaeological Resources Fund, a system which part of the tickets - and there are everywhere tickets, workers going to open the museums and castles, which tourists go and find them closed - will go to a national account to support the insurance system. Can I tell you something else? The current Minister for Labour - and Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Hatzidakis, but I do not think that those workers with what you are thinking of are going to be doing, not that it is your own personal policy, you are expressing a collective policy anyway, we have heard it - were before the Minister for Energy and the Environment. Do you know what she's specializing in? In privatising natural monopolies, networks, those that are always profitable with regulated charges. So you want me to tell you what you should do? Instead of giving some individuals a certain investment - and, beware, many of them are funds insurance from abroad - why don't you give some of these shares of these energy networks, which you want to give, so that our insurance funds can be permanently provided? Here's a second sentence. Of course you cannot move on because you have other prerogatives, other priorities. I would describe your policy from the first day you took on the basis of what he said "the killer always returns to the crime scene". You cared back the Pissaridis project, on what you started implementing in the first memorial years. The fuels of the vehicle put up the IMF. Yes, it is precisely the sponsorship of the International Monetary Fund, all these old proposals, tried proposals that have reduced the social state in Europe and Greece, which have broadened the inequalities and which you are presenting here as new proposals. So what have you done in the name of growth since August 2019? We have seen you unfold your development logic by abolishing the justified dismissal to contract workers. That's a nice piece of development! Illegal workers are an invention to complicate those who are subject to collective bargaining. The problem today, in our time, is how to restore all these distortions, which you have built all the previous years by bypassing the rights and collective achievements of workers. So we see within the same group that there are a parent company which is subject to the collective agreement of the parent company a number of workers who were left over from the old and everyone else being in subsidiaries and being treated differently, even though they work in the same group and do exactly the same. This is a breakthrough in industrial relations. It's the definition of bumping. The second thing you're doing, you say, guys, over here we have to do the wrong eyes a little bit. So what are we gonna do? We will downgrade the Labour Inspectorate, abolish it as a special secretariat and go into a simple address. And you came to remind us of exactly what I met when I received the first months of SYRIZA's rule as Minister of Labour at the time: advance exiles! They went out to "GENERAL" and said, "Work inspectors will be out tomorrow, tomorrow to check on the sector in that area. He was dropping the phones, and if anyone was accidentally throwing a fine, then the Minister was making sure to bury this. Still, you know, too much money to beggars! The first thing I was summoned was to be presented to me at a hotel - in the "Divani" if I remember - a whole program with great ilostrates of paper, etc. for the upgraded work of the Labour Inspectorate, but none of the contents. So you come now and tell us that we will have a very large growth and the minimum wage will be linked to the growth rate, which is twice as high as you have determined. You adopted this dangerous logic by lying to the world that once you suddenly find yourself in the government, you will start to flow investment, you will start to recover the psychology of the world, we will all eat with double masses and gold spoons, and so the minimum wage will be doubled in relation to GDP rate. But come on, he's actually disgusting you. So, now, what will happen when we have the greatest recession in Europe? And be careful, we have to take account of deflation. It's not just the size of the recession. It's another 2.1%, 2.2% that's deflation and it's even harder. So we, Mr Hatzidakis, are not with the sharing of poverty. With the redistribution, we are both social and developmental. We're with what you're not. And precisely because you have such a logic, you see the results of the management of this unprecedented pandemic crisis in the field of the economy. You are underestimating and laughing around the so-called forward measures, because you do not understand that they are the ones that will curb the downfall, the downfall of the economy, which will keep businesses and jobs in life. But you are watching as modern - day Neroes burning, literally, the world. Watch what's going on and say: What a nice restructuring this is? We tried it with the memos and now it's done on its own. Wasn't there a restructuring in the banks? Wasn't there a restructuring at the hotels? Wasn't there any restructuring in the supply chains from the Memorandum? Didn't we concentrate wealth on fewer? Aren't jobs lost? Has unemployment not been a lever of pressure to reduce wages? That's the outline of your nights. These are your extreme neoliberal recipes for the economy. And you come and say to us: 'But that's what Europe says. We will be on the European average.' Europe is not one. There is indeed the Europe of thutstism, which we are fighting for. There is a Europe of workers' struggles and labour conquests. It's an open field of dialogue and lasting conflict. And we are with the forces of work, justice. You are with the powers of oligarchy and maintenance. How does that make sense, then? To the OAED. You come to the OAED and say and resign, because we have voted against the question of reducing employers' contributions. It was an infinite increase, negligible, but all of the workers were a very important sum for the OAED to do his job. Joint work programmes do not exist. You go to the CEDEFOP, the 'Blue CEDEFOP' as you say, devaluing the elected representatives, who say: 'Children, what happened? We were cut off by the legs." While there was a routed Joint Work Programme, you cut it off. So, this is your understanding? Just share a cut-off unemployment benefit with OAED instead of a social policy arm? And I'm not talking about retreating the thread and housing policy issues. Now that's in relation to what you're working on, totally in another direction. Collective negotiations. You really want to put them aside. You'll know better than that, Mr. Chacloglu. The International Monetary Fund, here the collective bargaining had been established. Because the mechanism of collective autonomy and negotiation is, in fact, the one, which balances things and leads, when the conditions exist, through the consultation of the social partners to an increase in wages in the end. So that's what you stopped. It has had an impact along with other things that you have done at the beginning of the current course of the economy since you took over. You know, on SYRIZA, when we were able to get out of the memoranda, this mechanism of collective bargaining came back to a number of categories of workers, especially hotels, catering, etc. And it led to real increases. So you guys are currently preparing, in every way, to freeze it and put it in the refrigerator. But these, when you reduce the active demand through the reduction of the income available, are hitting growth. So the pandemic's here. Let's go to the heavy and unhealthy. What about the sanitaries? Are we going to do this? Or are we just going to pretend, ask people to go out on the balconies, let them reap them and no replacements? What is happening right now in hospitals in the country is scary. They've become hospitals for a disease. They take from primary health and take them where there are gaps. The public health system's falling apart. Since March you got this message and you don't do anything. Why? Because some gentlemen, like Mr Tsakloglu - let me take the example, because I see you here in front of me, I have nothing personal - say that this is thrown money, that is undermining development, and here a parentheses will be the point, we will support public health. We want PPPs, public-private partnerships. This is the development perspective. No, it's not a development perspective. It is the logic of the market, it is the one that believes in the marketing of health, the public good of health. And the pandemic has come to give you brains, and you're not putting it on. Of course, there is no such thing as that, Mr Hatzidakis, in Europe right now. You can't just say the politics, because the reality came itself and gave some "bugs", some slaps to the extreme neoliberals. And if what we used to say in 2015 and 2010 were to happen, when our country was under the memorandum regime, that is, there was the logic of reciprocity of debt, solidarity, as is now being done, even temporarily for some, our country would not have been affected by what happened to the memoranda, there would have been no such social misery, such an economic collapse. And the question is: Getting out of there, how will the European architecture change? How can we open up new horizons, new prospects, which have nothing to do with the old-fashioned strategies of neoliberal orthodox that are included in the Bible called the Pissaridis project? Ladies and gentlemen, why are you one of the last positions of the government? I'm talking to you. Are you predecessors in relation to the "SURE" programme? Give us an answer. Are you two second, third, from the end? What for? This is no longer an idea. This is probably an inability to come and fill it out. And in these circumstances you also evacuate the trade union workers. Who are the most unfortunate? Contracting workers. It is characteristic that the President of the staff of the banks is present. She's a trade unionist, elected. Although it covers the institutional framework, it is forbidden, after giving it a transfer, to go to see the workers represented by the trade unionist. I mean, we're going back to times when we thought we'd been over. So that's what separates us. I don't know if you received, but it's probably not like that, a million thousand and ten pensions from us pending, as the late Horn said in "A lifetime we have." But if you've been doing well for so long, what do you want with these managers that you want to help? Here's a confession that the system collapsed, that you lied to us. And it's good for us to lie to us. You're used to us. And it's good for the media to reproduce these lies. Retired people, what's their fault? Why do you play with their agony? Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that there be a different path, and this road leads us, it imposes on us. The potential of the temporary, which we want to make more permanent, which now exists the European framework, is to be exploited. The repayable advance to become non-refundable, to save as many enterprises as possible. You cannot imagine the future of this place with more unemployed people with worse paid jobs simply to come by some groups, who have shown that with the difficulty they come with the same ease. Did you see what happened in Thebes yesterday? Another tube builder left. I imagine you've been informed by the Labour Center. It's a multinational company. In twenty-seven countries he is present. So, of course, there needs to be today - and Mrs Fotio has told you very well - a generous extraordinary income support for all those who do not even catch these poor measures, which you have announced. It is also necessary for reasons of justice and for us to be able to halt the new wave of humanitarian crisis, but also because, in the end, by making the account, it has appeared that part of the recession is also taking place in the sector of the economy. I am not optimistic that all of this will be adopted, but, from there on, our world sees and judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u37	Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, elected in the Cyclades, has the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Please have the same quiet we had when Mr. Skourletis was speaking. And I don't want any comments on time etc. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u38	Wait a minute, Mr President, do not start the time before I start talking, because - and I say this about the world that is not aware - the time of the parliamentary representative is limited to its location is specific. First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity offered by SYRIZA, through this timely question, to address this issue, as is customary in the parliamentary procedure. I will start with something that, I think, concerns Parliament as a whole. The hardest thing when you're opposition, SYRIZA gentlemen, is not to make a political speech, if you don't have one, or to capture your suggestions, if you don't have one. The worst part is that when you don't have these, you resort to lies, alchemys and corrupt evidence, just like not all of them did, some of the SYRIZA's owners. And I'm explaining. I'll say it as fast and fast as possible to make it understandable. So I will fill you with evidence to know what the truth is and what the reality is. A moment ago Mr Skourletis mentioned a number of issues, which are still open and I am responding. Law 4172/2013. It is the law that we created in 2013 in the Ministry of Labour, the innovative law that aligns with European practice to shape the minimum wage. This law was the reason for SYRIZA leaving the Chamber, coming out across the Syntagma Square and saying that it will be the first law, which will be abolished when it becomes government. What's the truth, Mr. Hatzidakis? The truth is, not only did it abolish it when it became a government, but it applied Law 4173, which forms the minimum wage, our law, in 2019. And today we are criticised by Mr. Skourlet. Secondly, you are criticising us for work. It can be said, 'Everyone sees it from his own perspective'. What has always been the most extreme issue in a work debate? It was the release of team dismissals. Does Law 4472/2017 remind you anything? Law 4472/2017 is the law, which liberates group redundancies and has the signature and stamp of SYRIZA, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Let's get together! You're blaming and criticizing heavy and unhealthy. Four and a half years you've been government. You know that heavy and unhealthy to open, you need a process. Firstly, to set up the committee, secondly, to form the Social Security Council, the so-called SCA, and thirdly, to make a ministerial decision from the Minister. The heavy and unhealthy knees do not come out, as Mr Petropoulos illegally did on a charge! - by ministerial decision. And I ask you: Four and a half years, why didn't you put the committee on heavy and unhealthy, did you not? Four and a half years, Mr Katsotis, the Committee on Heavy and Unhealthyness has not opened up and has always been under the law. And, of course, for sensitivity to society I will say quite simply that we were the ones, who set the pillar of modern social policy in Greece. The minimum guaranteed income has the seal of the creation of the New Democracy in 2014 and, of course, the Mitsotakis Government is also coming into the Constitution. You voted against it. It's the A21 to support children. It is 2013's creation that today they are taking families the child's allowance. Or the issue of 2,000 euros in support of families, who are giving birth to a young child in support of demographics. He's got the Mitsotakis Government seal. It's happened for today. I'm not canceling good intentions. And you have good intentions, but don't look at us at the corner, because the seal of our own and our signature on social policy is much greater on what we have shaped and created all this time. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I come to the insurance, work, very soon. You're disgusting the evidence as you say. If that were the case, what you were saying would have blown up the labour market in the air and the evidence would have tampered with us today. You didn't invoke them. Watch out. A series of conversations and placements of SYRIZA officials and one clue you didn't say. Did you blame us for lack of sensitivity, for infringing the labour market? It's me? Which in 2012-2013 accused me of a fine of EUR 10,500, the highest fine ever entered the history of Labour Law. You looked at me, you sniffed me and said you'd abolish it. In 10,50, the hardest fine for undeclared work. Ladies and gentlemen, as a government you have hidden the evidence. You weren't telling the truth. This 10,500 brought the overwhelming positive effects on the labour market because it reduced undeclared work from 40,7% to 5,11% at the end of 2019. That was the intervention of the fine of 10,500. It's good you didn't abolish it. Secondly, the reduction in insurance contributions. Mr. Chacloglu said so before. Scientificly it has been shown that non-wage costs are the heaviest and most painful for the labour market. Ten units reduced insurance contributions from 2012 to 31-12-2020. Six units in the Samara government and four units in the Mitsotakis government. I was Minister, I had the honour and joy of proposing and voting for these laws. Do you know how positive these helped workers' incomes and the labour market? And this was one of the main causes combined with the 10,500 that deviated unemployment from 27,3% in 2013 - indeed the highest - today at 16,2%, as ELSTAT announced yesterday. Is there anyone questioning this evidence? Ten units: 3.9% in the Mitsotakis government, 1-1-2021 starts reducing contributions, two million employees will see an increase in their income, two hundred and sixty-five thousand businesses will see an increase in the funds available through the reduction in contributions that SYRIZA did not vote for. SYRIZA did not vote for the reduction in contributions. And not only did this, but SYRIZA did not vote for a hundred thousand jobs, the special programme today has provided the data of the Ministry of Labour twenty-two thousand seventy-three new jobs in the crisis, within the pandemic, in which we finance insurance contributions. You have not even voted for this programme for the twenty-two thousand nine hundred and ninety-three to date. I don't want to say now about HISBIA for the small and perceptive islands. These will follow a life for island policy. Data: unemployment June 2019: 17.1%. Today, after ELSTAT's announcement yesterday, it is 16.2%, that is, even in the pandemic it is confirmed that the policies which we followed for the containment of the unemployment wave are the suspensions of contracts, which Kostis Hatzidakis mentioned at the Ministry of Innovative Affairs and which you did not vote for once, were in the right direction. And this policy on unemployment within the pandemic and the maintenance of jobs has confirmed it, with data we have submitted here, the world's leading economists. The European Commission said: 'Take the example of Greece for the pandemic, what you need to do to save jobs'. ERGANI (GUE). — (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Not only ELSTAT, but also the 'ERGANI'. At 31/12-2020 the "ERGAN" has a positive balance plus ninety-three thousand three jobs. What does that mean? You guys are taking it away. Because the 2019 figure was a hundred twenty-seven thousand positive, you think the balance has been lost. No posts lost. Other ninety-three thousand additional posts were created in 2019. Watch out. In the crisis we have these results. And it comes January 2021, now in Kostis Hatzidakis, where he has plus two and a half thousand positive balances, when last year was less than seventeen thousand and last year less than twenty-two thousand. These are the elements for which you can evaluate us and criticize us, not air cut off and candy ideological, the one you always say! On the issues that concern parttime and full-time work, I am surprised! I mean, it's like mocking people in the face! The economy is in a special regime. The protection framework for interventions has also brought us positive results in full employment. Look at the results on SYRIZA and for our day and see how full employment has gone up. In the last year, full employment rose to 51.49% and 52% with the figures for "ERGANI" in January 2021. That's the reality, gentlemen of SYRIZA! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the evidence is that it proves what the reality is, in which you go against it! Regarding the elements of the bill you put on teleworking, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, yes, there was no institutional framework for teleworking in our place. It's a new necessity and reality. We have implemented a framework within, except for that at almost all this time. The great legislative initiative of the Ministry of Labour will come the country's new institutional framework for teleworking. As I said before about the portfolio, this framework is about to be modernised, upgraded, renewed at times, as the digital policy of society will now be modernised and things will change around us. The change of trade union law will come after forty years as Kostas Hatzidakis says. We cannot have the same framework. For us, trade unionism is a pillar of democracy. We will retain it, but we will certainly modernise it and improve it with the new social reality and European practices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, "ERGAN 2" will also come, the great achievement. In 2013, the great achievement was the creation of "ERGANI", with the electronic gates for workers. Today it has paid EUR 3.9 billion in 2020 to over six and a half million to workers. Let's think we didn't have the 'ERGAN'. The "ERGANI", therefore, is being upgraded to "ERGANI 2" - will be in the bill by Mr. Hatzidakis - because digital hours are introduced for the first time. Finally, I shall refer to insurance. Very soon I'll give some evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, end of lies! I will not go into the logic that all the Members of the New Democracy were then asking for the information on the outstanding pensions and SYRIZA did not answer! The worst thing SYRIZA did, gentlemen, you and the world have been watching this conversation, is that my predecessor hid the outstanding pensions in bags! There were forty thousand hidden pensions in bags, Ms. Xinogiannakopoulou! Forty thousand in hidden pensions bags! And now, for the first time in the history of our country, there is the 'ATLAS' report, which comes out on a monthly basis and because of it no one will ever ask again what the outstanding pensions are, because it will now all be on line. You make the application and go directly to "ITLAS". Mrs Ahtsoglou and SYRIZA's bag doesn't intercede to hide the pensions. How many were the pensions? Since the SYRIZA MPs did not respond! As Minister I was, he asked me the Change Movement and New Democracy and there was the following answer: In July 2019 he was a hundred eighty-nine thousand eighty-nine main pensions, supplementary pensions were eighty-seven thousand five hundred ninety-one and thirty-six thousand-four single pensions. All outstanding pensions on SYRIZA were three hundred and ten thousand five hundred six. So don't say again inaccurate! The loose ends were a million eighty-seven thousand forty-eight, and from the time we took over, we entered a cylon to gather the unleavened ones. It is not an easy case, nor have I canceled your efforts in the past. That's why I kept the name of the FBI. But I took it one step further, honoring the effort that has been made - I have said that, in politics, you must be magnanimous - and by putting the word e-FTA. Thus, from a single National Social Security Centre, he became a National Social Security Agency and a digital unit. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of outstanding pensions will never be solved - never, ever - if pensions are not digital. This was for the first time in 2014 - Mr. Skourletis, you have vindicated SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras - since then I handed you the file with the digital pension "ATLAS" and told me on the delivery - the receipt of the Ministry that the pensions must come out not by computer, but by people. And indeed, in 2017 you could have taken off the digital pension "ATLAS" and you didn't. We did it and the first digital pensions "ATLAS" of farmers and widows came out. Ask you to see! Tens of thousands of pensions come out in a second. In April, even - Mr Hatzidakis will announce - the second step of digital pensions for doctors, pharmacists, veterinary surgeons and disability pensions will be taken! In a second! And the circle of the digital spectrum “ATLAS” ends on 31-12-2021. It's the biggest reform for insurance. I shall conclude, Mr President. So the digital "ATLAS" system comes and remains the obstacle to what we do with the current pensions. At the end of 2020 it was the record of awarding pensions for all times with half the staff! Says who? Bruce? Oh, no. It's the electronics. One hundred and sixty thousand seven hundred seventy pensions were given in 2020 with accurately published figures, not with false data. It was a record of all the times with half the staff on e-Russian e-Russian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian e-Hussian That's the truth. What is the average pensions paid mainly over all years? It was a hundred and fifteen thousand. And we made a high record of twenty-nine thousand in 2019, that is, 30% more. But sixty - one thousand seventy - seventy - seventy - one is a record of all time in 2020 with half the staff. What else did we do in 2020? When did he start counting for us? It started counting as of 1 March 2020. Because 31 March was passed by Law 4670. So with what new unifications were made, we started building the insurance system and the FBI as early as March 1st. What did we do then? We have entered a wave to give - and we have given them - the first eighty thousand widow's pensions from fifty to seventy. You didn't do it, we did it. It was eighty thousand pensions, it wasn't an easy case. We gave them the widow's pensions. Secondly, we raised two hundred and fifty thousand supplementary pensions by correcting the unconstitutionality of the previous SYRIZA law. We corrected it and came out of a new subsidiary that cost 300,000,000 euros. Thirdly, we gave 1.051,000 retrospectives that were judged unconstitutionally with my own law. It was a hundred and seventy - two thousand twenty - two cases of heir pensions. A large sum of that was given. It will be completed at the end of April because it wants a very serious procedure. And of course we took off the chests forty thousand cases of funeral expenses that you had hidden since 2015, especially the farmers, and they were all given. There were forty thousand funeral expenses and we gave them all over the 2020 period. And now what's left of it? It remains before us to complete the 'ATLAS' system. Mr. Hatzidakis, with his own policy, will try to run the outstanding pensions. He'll do well. They'll come out with mathematical certainty. They'll come out because the ceiling will come in and the tank won't be filled with new pensions. And I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA is criticising us for Mr L.4670, our reform, because we did not implement it. But we did so many things in 2020, they couldn't be done together. And now in the first quarter of 2021, the two hundred and fifty thousand pensions will be given, which is an increase from thirty years to over, and the money will be given to the retired workers who have punished them with your own law. You cut them 70% of the pension, and now they're going to get 70% of the pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u39	Please. From six minutes, speak seventeen minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u40	I'm done. So that is the reality of the evidence of the truth that disguises everything you said before and cancels your own question. Because of this, you have not invoked one single element and only used one of the verbal and ideological approaches, and so you have canceled the possibility provided by the Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u41	Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although I am not used to it, I am taking the opportunity of the analytic position of the former Minister of Labour to say this to him: I do not think, Mr President, that this triumphant style of accountability you have made in your position is justified. It was certainly not understood by everyone who was responsible for forming the government, but what matters was not understood by the Greek people. Because if we go out and ask insured pensioners if everything you said understood and felt during your term of office, I think they will not confirm the celebratory tone with which you have said so again in plenary today. I'm sure it is. Minister, I would like to give your positive credit to you that you are not one of the government officials who have rushed out to the media and have their opinion on the restrictive measures or what should be done or which professional groups should remain open and on what terms. However, in your negative opinion, Mr Hatzidakis, you have also adopted today, such as Mr Georgiadis, the abstract argument that you are not entitled to speak, because we have a popular head start. This was put first in plenary by your colleague in the same region, Mr Georgiadis, two months ago. He said: “Why are you protesting? After having a populist head start.’ Is that a political argument - a response to opposition? In your positive words - to return - it is that you have reminded this Chamber and the 1998 MEDA recruitment law that it is the law of PASOK and the 1982 trade union freedoms law, which brought things into a different dimension, that it is the law of PASOK. Of course, I did not understand the reaction from SYRIZA's colleagues when you said the word PASOK, but, anyway, that will be answered by SYRIZA. But is it your fault that you are adopting Mr Stakoura's announcements, which he is doing? Considers that the economy, business and workers can continue to survive by inhibition, by transferring. In fact, he announced yesterday - you said so too - an arrangement for twenty-four to forty-eight instalments. Do you have to see to the government that in 2020 the revenue shortfall went beyond EUR 14 billion and citizens' dues of EUR 6 billion in tax and insurance funds, precisely why no one could enter the twelve to twenty-four instalments yesterday, which Mr Stavros turned into twenty-four to forty-eight? Do you have any illusion that you will be able to draw revenues from such arrangements? I would also expect, Minister, since you mentioned the transfer of obligations, to say something on the occasion of yesterday's e-ECA document, which calls for by 31 March eight hundred professionals to pay obligations arising from the clearing of 2017, 2018 and 2019. The business thing that is closed and must be paid for by 31 March. It's about eight hundred thousand businessmen. Aren't you going to transfer these obligations, as Mr Stakoras has handed over to the obligations of April for December? So, people who are closed with a government order - eight hundred thousand professionals in total and few more - must by 31 March pay what they were charged for the cleanup of 2019? I expect a concrete answer to that, to see whether you mean what you mean as a whole as a government. Because tax obligations cannot be shifted, but insurance is paid with shops closed. Activate some measures. You said about the rapid test late. We're waiting to see them. Mr Brutsis referred to ELSTAT. He celebrated to reduce unemployment. He did not, of course, say about increasing the economically non-active population and what is the real picture of the work part. I shall refer only to the food - tourism sector, for which you have announced that you will give 400 euros, that at the moment they are being discharged outside of any allowance received in 2020 and have not received an extension because they have only received one in March. The nightclub workers have got nothing. Workers with one day's contracts have not taken anything and those who worked on food - tourism, coming from work offices too have not taken anything and still have not seen the ECA's signals from the one-sided summer job suspensions, so that workers in food - tourism, for example, do not appear as recipients of allowances. Food - tourism, while a sectoral contract has been signed since December 2019 and concerns four hundred thousand workers, has not been declared compulsory until today. So there are four hundred thousands of workers, including waiters and delinquents, Minister, who every night - if you have not taken care of your home for food - bring you the food, bring it to us every night. They're uncovered at the moment we're talking. However, in order to make a fair assessment of what the situation on the labour market is and what the ideological position of the current government is, we need to make a brief revert from the start of the New Democracy governance up to now. In August 2019, the provisions on the reasonable ground for dismissal shall be repealed. In October 2019, it denounces collective agreements, establishes exceptions for a number of businesses and undermines sectoral contracts, with a typical example of food - tourism. In March 2020, special rotating work is being done with PPP. In May 2020, again with PPP, the minimum wage is postponed. In June 2020, ‘COMPANY - WORK’ was introduced without provision for a universal ban on redundancies to be introduced to the undertakings to be integrated. In August 2020, with two MDGs, the Government institutionalises unpaid work and unpaid overtime for quarantine workers. In September 2020, the employer's obligation to register in the ‘ERGAN’ any change or modification of the working hours shall be suspended. You baptized it as a temporary measure. It's up to me so far, and I wonder how the APRC will check the relevant infringements, as you said. What are the results of this policy? According to IINE - GSEE over one out of three workers work beyond normal working hours and in some sectors this is 90%, as in wholesale and retail trade. Increasing inequalities, precariousness and of course unemployment! And because yesterday we had a professional insurance conference, which you and the State Secretary, together with Mr Pissaridis, who in his report has proposed a reduction in overtime costs, de facto removal of eight hours and ultra - supplementary capitalisation, you should tell us if you are adopting and implementing these proposals. I am very afraid that the next period will see the establishment of a ten-hour job, a hundred years after the eighth hour has been set up in our country, the abolition of a fee for overtime, the prohibition of strikes in the public sector, in the OTAs, in the legal persons governed by public law, by changing Law No 1264/1982 and, of course, the downgrading of the EDP, after you have removed the competence of arbitration. What do we say? We say that workers cannot live for months to EUR 534 and that is why we have proposed compensation for those who are in a 100% job suspension with a limit of EUR 1 000, an insurance contribution for at least six months after the opening of the business. The three hundred and fifty thousand long-term unemployed, registered in OAS, are covered by the allowance for the duration of the pandemic. For God's sake! This is a matter of humanity, not a matter of political will. We also propose that all sectoral labour contracts signed should be declared compulsory and, of course, for heavy and unhealthy professions - because it has been heard - we have tabled six or seven times specific legislation. There is the report from the Behrkhraki Commission. This House has voted for two or three extensions of the functioning of this committee. We expect you to bring it to the House at last and legislate. A final comment on social work programmes. All of us are talking to people who are long-term unemployed, beneficiaries of the CRL, have low incomes and offer social structures to municipalities, regions, social welfare centres, CDIs, have experience, contribute to the proper functioning and serve citizens. Do you intend, as with fire protection, health structures and refugee structures, to extend the presence of the beneficiaries in these programmes? We believe that they really offer important services, gain valuable experience, and in any case, in crisis conditions and exceptional circumstances, such as those that we are going through in the country, every government and every political party is judged to ensure that, to the extent possible, conditions of social cohesion are ensured. Everyone in need should feel this protection of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u43	The next parliamentary spokesman, Christos Katsotis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have been described as "Minister of Special Missions", a title which you have rightly conquered from the policy that you have followed over time as Minister. What is your special mission now, really? Is it the complete overthrow of industrial relations, the overthrow of trade liberties and rights, the privatisation of the insurance system? These are all, as you said, but also all the demands of the major business groups to create the so-called friendly investment environment for new profit fields, such as insurance, training. That's what you're working on. Anything that prevents this strategy, you're abolishing it. A friendly environment for investors, hostile to workers and the people. We would like to welcome, Minister, the trade unions in tourism and foodism, who have been struggling for a year now for their survival. Right now he's back in the Ministry of Labour. You're dealing with them high. Refugee to meet with them. The first meeting you had with BSE and SETE. In an effort to communicate even Members - and me personally - with your Ministry, with the civilian staff, Mr Hatzidakis, we are on hold. It says: "Wait on your phone." Here's Mrs. Hunterinaki. As many times as we've tried to talk, we're on hold. We are talking about these issues, not personally. We call on you to respond today, what your position is to extend the unemployment benefit to workers in food - tourism. We have heard that, in fact, it ends here. Will they be protected or not until they get to work? Under the responsibility of the Ministry, workers on suspension do not appear insured, resulting in the loss of insurance benefits and, above all, in treatment. We want you to tell us why and how, when you will solve it, how you will ensure that the rejections from the insurance services, for example, are settled. Mrs. Hrainaki knows very well about the issue and she has responsibility for the Ministry for delaying giving the HRFs or the HRFs to recognise, as the law says. Does it say 534 plus insurance? Nowadays, therefore, they do not have insurance, so that they find a wall in the services, that they are not insured or with an image that the employer puts on them. So these are matters which are yours and you must deal with them soon. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC, with a number of proposals of laws, amendments, questions, questions and timely questions we have also tabled to the SYRIZA and New Democracy Government specific requests that you have all rejected. A few months ago the JRC's question was discussed. What was the position you took? You rejected the proposal to abolish Law 4972/2013, whereby the minimum wage is regulated by a ministerial decision, and, of course, the increase, by law, of the minimum wage to EUR 751 and the reintroduction of collective bargaining for the National General Association of Labour. You rejected the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. You have refused measures which would oblige employers to pay their wages and the insurance funds on time to stop unpaid work. Unpaid work is said to be reduced, Minister. We had the conversation these days for students and how they work with undeclared work. You ask for a badge, so you recognize them the +2 that they're working students, you say you don't know that all students work with undeclared work and control there's nowhere to go. You refused to protect all the unemployed, with an unemployment benefit of 80% of the minimum wage, an increase in the individual tax rate from the current tax levels where they are taxed and those who have the only minimum income. You refused to guarantee a decent income for all workers and the unemployed affected by measures against the spread of the pandemic. What did you say? It's not realistic, it's silky, it's an obstacle to capitalist development, it's a cost to businesses. Really, is that the rich man who produces wealth a cost? What do you want, slaves? In his question, SYRIZA mentions the measures taken during the period of his own government, as well as mentions the overthrows made by the Government of New Democracy that succeeded it. But what does SYRIZA not say? It does not say that it maintained all the overthrows made by the PASOK and New Democracy governments with the two memoranda and the hundred implementing laws, that it continued with larger overthrows with its own third memorandum voted by both the New Democracy and the PASOK - a Change Movement and other parties. You have voted and permanentised the law that abolishes the negotiation of employers' workers. For the extension of any collective agreement, you have set as SYRIZA the term of the representation of the "50+1" of the workers to be demonstrated by the register of employers, the employer organisation. As a JRC, we were then talking about increasing the minimum wage by SYRIZA, that even if certain crusts were to be given - a challenge for the election workers, the anti-Fraud Law, the most anti-Fraud Law of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK, the Brutsi Act will live and reign. Were we right, yes or no? We were right. Is anyone really in favour of re-establishing the minimum wage by collective bargaining? If so, say it. No one dares to go against the big business groups, whose favor and support you seek, because they are one of the most flagrant overturns they have earned. The minimum wage, the unemployment benefit at 80% of the minimum wage, tends to be equal to the minimum guaranteed income of 200 euros. It is well known that the unemployed are being paid EUR 200 for programmes in the OAD. And we ask you: Which one of you can live up to 200 euros a month? None of them, nor any of the workers, but that's what you're doing. You have formulated the framework, which abolishes the foundation of collective bargaining and the tools of business groups, the wages of employees of many companies, of different sectors, have been reduced to the lowest level, and the attempt to go underneath it has not been missed. Is there any one of you who can dismantle the associations of persons, the tools to crush the conditions of pay and work? The laws, which have been adopted, have suspended the application of the compulsoryity and expansion of collective labour agreements. The extension of sectoral contracts to the few branches leaves out thousands of workers working under flexibility, and as far as their content is concerned, these contracts include large reductions in wages and deductions. The reality that has been formed is painful. One out of five employees has a wage of less than EUR 500 mixed, one in three receives a gross salary of up to EUR 700, i.e. 35% income and over employees with figures before the pandemic moves below or around the minimum wage of poverty. Now this percentage is tending to become the majority. With the 'SURE' programme, the suspension of the contract of employment, the use of the 'COMPANY WORK' programme, the imposition of teleworking is ensured by employers and subsidized wages and insurance contributions and a reduction in operating costs. They are, of course, increasing their profits. You have turned the country into a vast special economic area with low wages, flexible forms of employment, a ban on trade activity and, on the other hand, full immunity to capital with tax exemptions, incentives, tolerance and support for unconscious action. The government - and today Mr Hatzidakis - has announced the new attack with ten hours of work, the abolition of overtime pay, the abolition of trade union freedoms and, of course, the increase in repression. A lot of insurance has been said here today. The law of SYRIZA, gentlemen of SYRIZA, lays down the conditions of the insurance for the next fifty years. It is strategically important for capital. This law will be applied aggressively and implemented by the Government of New Democracy, shielding it with additional provisions and, in particular, seeking new regulations in order to legitimise any overturns that have taken place in insured and retired persons and to extend private insurance. The reduction in contributions is a reduction in gross wage and not an increase in wages, Mr Tsakloglu. It is part of the strategy of exempting employers and the State from participation in insurance. As has been said here, individualisation of pensions, an individual pension, which refers to the loss of solidarity between the generations and strengthens reciprocity, individual responsibility for the insurance of the worker and his family. The abolition of heavy and unhealthy professions, Mr Brutsi, in a series of branches is the task of all of you. It has led to at least ten years of work, abolishing the five-year ranges in the retirement ages between men and women. This is violence, Mr Hatzidakis, this is a rape of workers and the people, leveling up in the name of gender equality any favorable provision and regulation that applied to women, while insurance laws break every concept of social security, equate the limits of retirement age, literally abolishing the protection of maternity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have abolished the right, Mr President, to early retirement for mothers with minor children, with LEIs. You all did this and you all keep it in place. The Government of New Democracy continues to promote the three-pillar insurance system, as has been said here today, and here it gives reassurance to the insurance traders that it will move forward and promote the insurance system in the model of the World Bank since the 1990s. You give enormous - if it is not final - hitting the right to public social security, which is converted into investment, individual risk and hunting through gambling. Mr. Chacloglu, you know this can be Yannitsi again. You'll remember, because you were his partner at the time. For the trade union law, you promote arrangements in order to put the movement on the plaster. Recall the legitimacy of indirect competitivity, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the wage lockout, the restriction on the declaration of a strike in the primary trade unions, after a majority of "50+1" is required at the relevant general assemblies for the formation of a quorum. These are your works. On this was pressed by the New Democracy and introduced the electronic register, racking workers, electronic voting, giving new tools to business groups to hit the organisation and claim of workers. On this now, it is seeking to abolish trade union and democratic freedoms, to remove the protection of those who enter the front and to organise the resistance and vindication of modern needs, to criminalise workers' racing activities. He supported the leadership of GSEE with the MATs and he comes here today to tell us that trade unionists are fighting to sit on the neck of the working class with extensive fraud. Ninety-eight pages have been submitted to you here, Mr. Hatzidakis, an outlaw with all the illusions, and you have gone to support this fraud and to establish this leadership that participates with you in the dialogue and is like an alibi so that all this anti-government attack can pass, get in the way of any development of the games. That's why they say it's not time for strikes and all we hear all the time. Mr Minister, neither restrictive policy, 'tacearica' nor expansion policy serves the majority of the people for their modern needs. It serves every time any mixture applies to the needs of capital. That is why you have no problem with thatcher implementing anti-government policy as well. The people and the working class will find their way, they will clash with these policies and with the struggles, through the breakthrough and overthrow and modern needs will claim, but this political staff and the oligarchy of wealth will be sidelined.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u45	Next Parliamentary Representative, Mr Vassiliardos, from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Brutsi, the rhetoric question: If you had the successes you claimed, why did you really be replaced? Was that the Prime Minister's injustice? You've been full of us, Mr. Hatzidakis. We see, however, that everyone in Greece, all foreign companies, should leave. Of course, COVID serves you to hide from behind. How much longer, though? The next day's nightmare, which will really be a nightmare, is approaching, though rather, you will try to escape in time, through elections, as you did in 2009 with the crisis at the time. You know the method and the emergency exit very well. Extensions of payments, companies zombies, household zombies, zombie banks, zombie state. These are actually your successes, however, which have an expiry date. As for the money you don't want to fly out the window, like you said before, that's all you do in the nineteen months you've been running. Money that you do not have, but you are borrowing, as your party has always used to. As far as pensions are concerned, we are sure that you will solve this, as you have resolved, by increasing prices, when you were lucky to reduce energy prices simultaneously and to close NOMEs. In this respect, the question of pensions will certainly be resolved by basic pensions. Looks clear. On the subject now. In recent years there has been an attempt to revise and extend the past by all the systemic parties, as well as a bid on subsidised policy, without any reference to specific amounts or to the desperate situation in Greece today. In particular, the government has completely lost the account with the measures it takes and which have absolutely no economic logic, as well as with its ever-wrong forecasts of recession, twin deficits and twin debts. Already the 2021 budget, like the preliminary draft, is for garbage. So what SYRIZA should ask for as a Civic Opposition with his question is a new budget, to see where the country is today, to what extent and how it should go. With regard to the two other parties of the Troika, SYRIZA and PASOK, they constantly propose measures, without even calculating their costs for the Greek economy and its ability to cope, with populism truly unprecedented. These parties are, of course, more or less linked to the common sins of the past, to the first and second memoranda, to the crime of the PSI, where our national sovereignty has been lost and everything has been mortgaged, as well as to the third memorandum signed by all three together. As far as their political conflicts are concerned, they focus on notionology instead in substance, with the aim of party audiences and the maintenance of the post-multiple regime, which went bankrupt and will continue to go bankrupt Greece. In reality, of course, they agree with each other, since no one targeted the policies of the European Union, the German risk, the memoranda and the conventions. On the contrary, they deal with the allocation of the minimum funds, which the European Union gives us, and indeed with very strict conditions now, not to mention that they are a small subset of those who are losing from our huge trade deficits, and often end up with those who give them back, that is, of course, in domestic conflict. So at the same time that our public debt has exceeded 230 % of GDP - in terms of central government - by close to EUR 380 billion, the budget deficit of EUR 24 billion or 15 % of GDP, the red private debt of EUR 250 billion and so forth, the government celebrates when it borrows even more, while the two other parties insist on benefits and therefore on new loans, such as the 'SURE' programme - a loan, of course - with the current SYRIZA question. They all remind together the crew of a vessel that, while full of holes and sails in a wild sea, tries to open even more promising to the unfortunate passengers that this will save the ship. Continuing, we will not mention the successes that SYRIZA claimed during his administration, since the damage he caused in the country is infinitely greater. Neither of us has forgotten and will forget the anti-constitutional reversal of the referendum, the closure and leftover of the banks, nor the establishment of the supranationality that has been transferred to us, although the third memorandum signed jointly by the Troika of the interior - all, all of the three parties together - nor, of course, the surrender of the name of Macedonia probably in exchange for the extension of the delayed 95 billion after 2032 - the pensions in this case would be funny, of course, to deliver such a name - as well as so many others that there is no time to mention it today. It is therefore better to stop this hypocrisy that leads nowhere, and SYRIZA must know that he is responsible for the greatest crime in the centuries-old Greek history, the murder of the Greeks' last hope and the fact that it is the party that has managed to convince them that there is no alternative to the memorials. He did it. Only for that reason should it literally be ashamed to appear in the House. If he now wanted to counteract us, claiming that there was no other solution, the example of Portugal, in which the left-wing coup d'état, who won the elections, refused the new loan programme proposed by Shoeble and actually led the country to get out of the crisis, would be the best answer anyone could give him. With regard to his claim to reduce unemployment, it should be noted that it does not mean reducing the unemployed at the same time. OAS enrolled in March 2019 was a million eighty thousand of whom five hundred forty thousand long-term. What has happened is that public jobs have been increased through contractors to circumvent recruitment restrictions to permanent people, where on the basis of the eighth evaluation - which I will present in the Minutes - they have reached six hundred and one thousand in 2018 from five hundred and eighty thousand in 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not to mention the replacement of full-time jobs by part-time or the rise in tourism, so that one out of three now appears there, which today costs us extremely expensive. They have literally turned us into European wardrobes. In relation to the New Democracy, there is no need to look back on the past, since its failures after the takeover of governance are huge as much as it tries to hide them behind the COVID. Besides, they appear in all the economic sizes of Greece as well as in society, which lies within the limits of desperation and impoverishment. The fact that it has supported all its hopes for growth in the European Union's reconstruction package at EUR 32 billion, which is in fact EUR 22.5 billion, as the rest are loans, substantiates the deadlocks of its economic policy, since over 50% of the funds must be driven to green and digital investments, where Greece is entirely dependent on imports. We will close with the question of SYRIZA, which has the following title: "To protect workers, support their income, safeguard their working and insurance rights, restore collective bargaining, ensure health and safety at the workplace and address unemployment". All very logical and beautiful. In this respect, however, in order to achieve all this, there is no magical recipe, and it is impossible to achieve it unless the problems of our unsustainable public and private debt are resolved. It is also impossible to achieve if Greece does not produce wealth, which allows it to really deal with the workers, the entrepreneurs and the rest of the population. It is with this that we all have to deal with, because to share wealth you have to get it first, and all the others are just nonsense about party audiences that have absolutely no connection with reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u47	We shall continue and conclude the course of the interventions of the Parliamentary Representatives with Mrs Fotini Bakadima from Mera25, and we shall then proceed to the abbreviations of the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all ought to pay tribute first of all to the New Democracy for its consistency, since it has been faithful to its monumental perception and idealism, since the first moment of the resumption of power, and it continues with reverential faith, as it had left them since last time, which had been found in the government headquarters, those of total blockage of all rights, including those of course and of workers. In fact, what should we want to do first: the complete deregulation of the overtime system, unpaid overtime, the total abolition of collective labour contracts, the increase in working hours, the substantial abolition of the trade union right, the criminalisation of demonstrations to avoid protests and claims, the continuation of public work programmes with an unacceptable wage below the minimum wage - of course a practice that is coming to the heart of Mr Simitis' programmes - the complete dismantling of the EIA with the simultaneous closure of the eye to black and undeclared work. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the list is long and ongoing. It is, therefore, more than clear that the New Democracy is only in practice legislating for the benefit of the citizens and supporting the workers. What it does, in fact, is to pay bills and serve the domestic and foreign oligarchy, which has made the time of crisis of the monuments and the pandemic opportunity to increase its profits and increase its assets. New Democracy is trying to show that by means of support measures it is coming to help, to act as a supporter of coronary wounded people, when the workers themselves cry out and shout out that they are forgotten. In the context of parliamentary control and intervention of my own, but also of other colleagues, not only of Mera25, but of all parties, I personally have asked you a number of questions - not only to you, Minister, because he was Mr Brutsis before you - concerning the question of worker support. The whole sector is at risk and thousands of workers have left outside support framework. Retail, primary production, tourism, foodism are only a few examples. I will be standing on the food side and you will allow me to refer to a last press release a few days ago by the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers in Food - Tourism, which I consider to be extremely accurate in reflecting the agony experienced by the unemployed in the sector on a daily basis. He said, 'Nowhere in the package announced by Mr Stakoras there is only a vague reference to workers, perhaps even in March'. In other words, poverty continues. A little further there are several questions that I think are critical and should be answered: What about the provision of the announcements for the extension of unemployment benefits and the inclusion in it of other categories of workers affected by the pandemic, such as those with no right to compulsory re-employment, who received an exceptional unemployment benefit in June, July, August? How will thousands of workers, who did not work last summer and have not collected the fifty meanings required for the unemployment benefit? What about those who were going to get an unemployment benefit for the first time, not taken care of by adjusting the fifty articles and still need eighty? At the same time, according to data from the WTO, some twenty-five thousand people have left behind any support, because either they have made a unilateral suspension declaration and have not yet appeared in the system or have been working with one-day or a few-day contracts, which is very common for this sector. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, have you wondered how these people will survive, how will they be able to support their families? Obviously not. Going through the industry's collective agreements, this foodstuff expires in a few days, without having been declared compulsory. Another four have been signed, without the industry representatives having any information about what will happen, about the future of them, and it is expected to be signed by the end of the month in the case of bakers. However, in addition to the bad practices of the New Democracy, which continues to remain ideologically consistent, I cannot stand up to the highly hypocritical attitude of SYRIZA, as current measures and current legislation are stepping in and follow clearly its own steps. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. So SYRIZA, now reappearing as the defender of the workers and the weak, strongly wishes to forget that, despite the opposing statements of the election campaign, as a government, he maintained for four years the minimum wage and the reproach of the under-paid wage, even giving "progressive policy" to 511 euros, with which the young were paid up to twenty-five years. What else does he want? He wants us to forget that on his own legislative initiative employers' contributions from the state budget were substantially subsidised, that collective bargaining was effectively abolished for the days, that after thirty-six years under his own legislation a strike decision is required 50% plus 1% of workers represented in unions. In addition, SYRIZA maintained, if not strengthened, the public works programmes and all of them with the light of the exit to the Memorandum tunnel have not been shown. These were structural elements of his own, as he wanted to say, "progressive left policy". With the same sensitivity that he did not show at that time, he is now trying to defend employment rights, when he has set himself with his policy and with his attitude within the parties of the Memorandum Arc, a sensitivity that no longer convinces anyone, a sensitivity that is not being liberated, takes no flesh and bone, with the adoption of the SYRIZA concepts, such as 'democracy of Europe' or 'the poorening of our society'. The self-criticism, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is an important virtue. It is advisable that you enter this process, consider the responsibilities of your own memorandum policies, consider how much you contributed to the impoverishment of the Greeks. The delusional, former SYRIZA comrades, are extremely disastrous and, let us be honest - because we have no delusion - you have never taken the country out of the memoirs. What you only did was baptize your own left memorial. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The circle of interventions by the parliamentary representatives has therefore been completed. We are continuing with the second readings of the honourable Member. We'll invite Mrs. Maria - Eliza Xenonakopoulou to the Stepma for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have listened very carefully. It is clear that first of all we have a completely different concept of growth and work, an ideological and political difference. For us work is productive and the social state is a development that comes to support the economy as a whole. You are talking about redistributing poverty and within the logic that sometime in the future if the pie grows, you will see improvements to wages and to the social state. This has, however, been denied over the past twenty years throughout Europe and throughout the world. This is also the source of the problem of neoliberalism that prevailed, that, by deregulation of labour, by weakening the social state, it is never finally redistribution, even if there is a development trend in the economy - how much now in a time of crisis - but on the contrary, inequalities are constantly growing and so from the 2/3 society we have reached the 1/5 society, where 1/5 really owns the large part of wealth and incomes and 4/5 fifths of the middle class including poverty. You responded by referring to polls. Minister, this is not a political controversy on polling, it is about the state of the economy, society and the world of work. And as Minister of Labour, you should not look at the polls, but the real facts about the social situation. And because you did not mention them, to repeat them: Greece today has the worst place in the European countries in terms of recession. We warned you for months that you had to take other measures forward, support the real economy, work and demand. You haven't received them and you're still insisting. It has the third worst position, according to EUROSTAT’s data on the reduction of income, having included in it the measures taken by the Government of New Democracy. And much more tragic, as far as the labour market situation is concerned, a third of private sector workers are paid the minimum wage and a third with flexible and informal employment relationships is paid below the minimum wage and receives a salary of around EUR 200. That is the reality today of the economy and society, and you are now ruling for nineteen months, and you have an absolute responsibility as government because of course reshaping does not nullify the shortest. We are talking here about a choice of the Prime Minister and collectively of the Government of New Democracy. You announced some extensions. Any extension is for good, welcome to announce. But do you think that's the problem? Do you think that, with such fragmentary measures and the continuation of this logic, you will face the great economic and social problem? And you're asking us what we're suggesting. But you have been told by Alexis Tsipras from this step repeatedly that you must support - the state, the budget - the insurance contributions in order to support businesses as well and maintain jobs. This is the greatest anxiety. We have invited you to finally put in the debate the reduction of private debt through a brave haircut, not just extensions of payments, which will eventually sink the market when the suspensions stop, brave haircut of private debt and of course regulation, but together. And most importantly, we asked you to withdraw bankruptcy law. As far as the APR is concerned, the hundred and twenty-one recruitments are welcome. But because it had to be eighteen months to decide, after you lowered the RCF. Also, what will you do to have systematic checks? I said myself that at last you decided to make this platform, but that is not enough. It is important to go to businesses that do not want to be controlled and to do a working schedule. As far as teleworking is concerned, Mr Brutsis was right to announce it to us. But why didn't he bring her? Why don't you bring her? We want to become an institutional framework for teleworking. The result is, however, that we are now in the 11th month of pandemic, lockdown and mandatory teleworking without rules either on working hours, on wages, on the right of interruption and on all other issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two minutes and I will be closed. Now, with regard to minimum wages, the questions are very clear: Are you taking the view of the Pissaridis report, which says that the minimum wage must be low, so that the economy can be competitive? We are vertically opposed. We want a clear decision and commitment from your side. We as SYRIZA increased the minimum wage. In order to respond clearly, we clearly believe that it should be re-negotiated in collective bargaining. That is what we said, that if we had a government, we would have another increase in order to get it where it was before the 2012 reduction, it would have entered into collective negotiations. What's your position for this? As far as unemployment benefit is concerned, we also consider it extremely negative that this reference to the possible change in the unemployment benefit system, in the midst of this great unemployment, the precariousness of which there is and the thousands of unseen unemployed. It is extremely negative that you come to say that you will change the system, as the Pissaridis report says, instead of actually looking at how you can cover those unemployed who are not covered, as well as the time of the allowance. I would also like to mention a few words to the OAED and insurance. As far as the OAS is concerned, we were opposed to a reduction in insurance contributions, firstly, because they were for a year, secondly, because, as you confessed, the benefit for workers was very small, that is, for the majority, around EUR 6. From that point on, however, you have never answered us, while constantly asking your predecessor, how you will cover the OAED deficit. Because you know that the state budget can only cover the unemployment benefit deficit. For all the other actions of the OAS, calculated by the social partners, that this deficit, caused by the reduction of insurance contributions, is about 1 billion, the deficit cannot be covered by the State budget. Will you bring an order to change it? Tell us. Will you bring in a provision so that the other activities of the OAED, in terms of employment, training and all the socially beneficial activities of the OAED can be covered? I would like to say a few words about insurance. We do not have to say many things about outstanding pensions. The reports you have made as a new Minister, and you and Mr Mitsotakis, show that it is the complete confession of the failure of the New Democracy Government for eighteen months to deal with this problem. SYRIZA as a government had reduced by 70% the outstanding pensions. Again, in order not to say that we are making a sterile opposition, to mention to you Mr Klaus Regling, who had come last September to Greece, and he first said that the outstanding pensions had been out of your own government and had then reached 3,000. Mr. Regling said that. And when we talked about the budget, with data from the FBI, they had been over four hundred thousand. The solutions that you have brought to us at the moment to deal with the issue are not that they are not coming to deal with it. Because it is important that pensions be effectively accelerated. For this matter with the allowance - Mr Kalamatianos raised the issue - we are waiting for a clear answer. If, that is to say, it will have the same perception of an initial examination as to whether the pension is based, then it is a gift free of charge. We are talking about about about the same time delay. If you give it back in general, then we are talking about a new social problem that you will create to those who will then ask for the money back. And I close with the dear State Secretary on insurance matters. I'll ask you four specific questions, Mr. Undersecretary. First of all, do you know that the OECD has made a recommendation since last December in all countries that, in the midst of a crisis, changes in insurance systems must be prevented? If you don't know it, I'll let you know exactly about that danger there is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Question two: You're still not telling us the cost. Are you announcing such a reform without having calculated the costs and waiting for the studies to come when you bring it to Parliament? All those responsible, who deal with this, are talking about over 50 billion. You said yourself that the state budget, the AAA and the development divide would cover it. So, what are you doing? Are you bringing the cost back again, after you have hit the same redistributive public social security system, so that the taxpayer, the insured, the retired person, the worker?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u51	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u52	I'm closing up with two questions. Third question: why have you included this change in the government's proposal to the Recovery Fund? I hope - and I would like a clear answer - that you do not want to get funds from the Recovery Fund, which is to support the economy and workers, so that somehow these funds will go to private and, indeed, multinationals - not even European companies many times. Finally, what about the low pensions? Because all the estimates say that such a system in its prospect of the first hit is the low pensioners. We want clear answers to all these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u53	The next honourable Member is Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos. Here you go, Mr. Kalamatiane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Brutsi, Minister, Minister, Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, we have listened with caution to you. I am also returning to the fact that, in fact, our rapporteur has said so, and we have not heard anything about how the question of temporary retirement specialises. You announced a firework for 384 euros. How will these be given? With today's preconditions or others? And if all of them were to be granted EUR 384, those who will not ultimately receive a pension, who would reject their application, who thought they could get a pension, but who will not get a pension, what will happen? How will they return them? They're poor people. It is a question that needs to be answered, I believe. I now come to the privatization of subsidiary insurance. You said that many European countries have the capitalisation system. Indeed. But the difference, Minister, Mr Secretary-General, is here that it has been capitalising. The big problem is when, from a redistributive, like our own, the system becomes capitalised, because there is a huge transition cost there. In European countries, we do not have such examples. But we have Chile. What happened to Chile? From a redistributive system the system was decided by its then government, without a crisis, without a pandemic, without a crisis on the financial markets, to be changed to capitalisation. Then there was a huge transfer cost that has been paid for it - this has occurred after decades - the taxpayers, the insured, the pensioners and the workers. Now that things are going bad on the financial markets, on the stock exchanges, they are again invited to pay the cost of the insurance problem. And this country shows our own dreadful future on the question of subsidiary. That is the example. From a redistributive point of view it became a capitalist and for decades the taxpayers pay this system. So the problem is the cost of transition. Who's gonna pay for it? Studies - has the rapporteur also referred to - are there? Is there a proportionate study? You announced something. You're on your way, Mr. Chacloglu, too. Bring the studies. Who are they? Is it 20, 30, 40, 50 billion? How old is he? We should know. You made a decision. We need to know how much the cost is and who's gonna pay for it, of course. You mentioned, Mr Secretary-General - I have seen you, you have said that on other occasions - that insurance money must strengthen investment. This reminds me of something that was also written in the 1950 papers, when IKA had revenues, but had no expenses because pensions were not much. So the newspapers wrote that IKA's money, IKA's reserves, was given to industry and commerce. You'll do the same now. That's what you plan to do. But tell us how it's going to happen. You said about Greek investments. When multinational companies - and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos said so - are not Greek insurance companies, how will you ensure that this money will strengthen the Greek economy, the Greek investments? Capitalism we have and the markets are globalized. So how will you ensure that the money enters Greek companies and strengthen investment in the country and growth and GDP? You need to specialize in this. You said about the law, Yannitsi. Then two million people were on the way, so that this anti-reform would not pass. Now, will you bring that law in the middle of a pandemic and tell us we can't get out on the streets? So you're gonna pass it like this? Cost 50 billion for the taxpayers, for the insured, for the pensioners without a word? Are these your plans? Answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. We shall now proceed with the remarks of the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has the floor, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have five remarks to make in my dentistry. The first concerns something said by SYRIZA's colleagues in terms of investment and development. I think it would be better to talk about other things, about other concepts, not investment. Because at some point - and indeed in 2018 - a study by an international organisation - I remember it was about a hundred and twenty countries around the world - about the amount of investment in the share of Gross National Product and, except for the countries that were in war, Argentina and a couple of other bankrupt countries, Greece was at the end of the table. There was nothing worse. Only our war countries were over. I think it's not the most appropriate field. After all, SYRIZA has said that he almost hates private investment, because one of his scratches, the other smells, the other was trying to delay it. So I think it's better to talk about something else. In any case, let us all realise in Greece that if we have a problem with investment, we will have a corresponding difficulty with jobs. Because jobs from the air cannot be created. The second observation concerns the pandemic and its consequences in Greece. SYRIZA strongly criticises the government. It ignores, of course, some basic facts, more fundamentally not. On the maps, which have been released before and now, on the consequences of the pandemic at public health level, Greece stands out among those countries that have been less badly affected, in relation to Europe as a whole and the advanced countries around the world. Look at the last few weeks. If you exclude Greece and some countries in the Nordic North, all the other European countries - and the big ones - are worse than Greece. The same applies to vaccinations. Europe compared to Israel, with America - we know - is far behind. However, Greece among European countries is among the first in relation to vaccinations. You're standing in the recession. Yes, sir. The recession isn't too small. Obviously there is a great deal of recession, as it is throughout Europe. You say 'Why is it bigger in Greece than it is in other European countries?' Because you forget the peculiarity of the Greek economy and the special, very important role that tourism has. So when an activity, like tourism, is critically affected, it has a corresponding effect, as in Spain. In Spain, where the socialists govern - together with your partners Podemos - they also have a great deal of recession, compared to ours. There's exactly that factor. So don't hide behind our finger. Don't try to create false impressions. Citizens are not being deceived. I would like to make some remarks on the measures taken by the Government to tackle pandemic at the level of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and on which I have also seen a moderate indignation, so to speak, from the point of view of counter-population. I would like to remind you very quickly, so that we can all remember them and the citizens who are currently watching us on television. The first measure is the measure of suspension of contracts. International forms, foreign publications referred to this measure, congratulating the Greek Government and calling on other European governments to adopt this measure. Let's recognize it once! It's the reality. Then, we have the 'Cooperation' mechanism to cover some of the costs of the public sector, not for the companies that close down, but for the firms affected. I think that is a very positive measure. We also have direct transfers from budget to EMCDDA to cover the insurance contributions of workers who are suspended on the basis of their nominal salary. Coverage and insurance contributions. These measures which we are now talking about and mentioning billions - which the citizens may not be able to appreciate, because they listen every day to different figures - relate to neither more than a million nor a million thousands of our fellow citizens, workers. A million seven hundred thousand Greeks benefit from these measures. In any case, we can say at some point, as is said in other European countries, 'We recognize that you are doing something, gentlemen of the government, but we want more, which is: one, two, three'. Say it so that we can really become a European country in the way we are discussing Greece. I continue with the 'SURE' programme, for which I have also heard criticism. Greece has already received EUR 2.7 billion. On 2 February Mr Stakoras made a statement that we are claiming an additional EUR 2 billion for employment support measures. "The percentage of resources received by Greece from "SURE" is more than twice the proportion of Greece's gross national product in terms of total euro area GDP. In other words, in relation to the economic size of Greece - to refresh your finances, Mr Skourletis - we have received a double share from 'SURE'!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u57	In relation to Portugal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u58	That's what I said. And it's good, again, to go back to Piraeus Industrial School to refresh your finances.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u59	Without Katsafad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u60	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u61	From there on, I add extra measures. Expansions were granted to all unemployment benefits. In fact, as the Prime Minister has recently announced, an extension of two months for the duration of unemployment benefits for beneficiaries who expired or ended in January or February 2021. I don't think he's in doubt. Single financial assistance of EUR 400 was granted to long-term unemployed who are not receiving any other financial aid. In addition, these days financial support is given to some twenty-fifths of the long-term unemployed who had not submitted their supporting documents. More favourable conditions were also laid down for the regular unemployment benefit for seasonal workers by reducing the required number of insurance days to fifty. I heard that even this was underestimated! In any case, let us recognise that a move has been made that covers some people. Or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u62	Whoever stays out?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u63	The open programme of the hundreds of thousands of young subsidised jobs is also being implemented. You didn't vote for it when he came here to the House. In any case, up to now in this programme, despite the difficulties - because we are in a recession period - some twenty-six thousand workers have joined. Are you questioning it? At the same time, a number of programmes are being implemented. I have them here, but I don't have the time to mention them one by one. Some ten projects are currently under way by the OAED, which obviously benefit unemployed and people in need of support. I would also like to mention the issue of tourism - foodism, which has been mentioned. Over the last few days, a programme has been launched to integrate these coverage programmes and certain categories of workers who have not been covered so far. Everyone else knows that. I imagine you know that, too. On the issue of the ADR in the unilateral statements of tourism and foodism, I would like to say that the DU submits them to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, which is responsible for this responsibility as a quasi-minor employer. It shall be completed in the coming days, in particular by the end of the month. These RDPs will be submitted to the EBRD for all months during which the unilateral declarations, i.e. June to October 2020, have taken place. We are talking, Mr Katsotis, to all the workers who are in this area. Of course, there is institutional representation and we give priority to institutional representation, but we do not refuse to meet with any workers who come to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That's not what we're bragging about. It's our obligation. But I'm saying it so there's no misunderstanding. From there on, I would like to make two more comments and close. One concerns the OAED itself. I have already referred to programmes that are running. Our aim is for the OAED to be strengthened even more, to be the reference point for training programmes and, more generally, for programmes involving workers and the unemployed. We have already told the European Commission that when planning the Recovery Fund. We want an OAED more modern and stronger operating efficiently. And at this stage, during the post-Koronian transition, the OAED will undoubtedly have an important role to play, because we as government have decided to emphasise the programmes of subsidised employment and training, precisely in order to address any difficulties in the transition. We have agreed to the Ministry and Mr Tsakloglou, in his scientific capacity, is the head of a committee which prepares exactly our own policies for this very day, the next day from the coronary. Of course, we will not finish in three quarters, we will end with our conclusions very soon, perhaps within the month. And I'm closing up with the question of the payment of pensions. I will not go into what I have said before. I just want to say that the amendment to pay a certain number of pensions depending on the time the application is submitted earlier, namely, and retrospectively, will come to Parliament very soon. Now her statement is on the table. You will see the amendment. The amendment seeks to make these retroactive, some national pensions for pensioners who have applied for a pension and have not received it without delay and without bureaucratic difficulties. It will be predicted - as is reasonable and always the case in these cases - a netting mechanism for those who may get something now and which they may not be entitled to. But be careful. I want to tell you something, and I tell you completely open and I say it from my heart. And I want people to listen to it, people who take off pensions, and people who wait for pensions. A state, whatever this is, which is late to give pensions for a year, for two years, for three years, for four years, I am sorry, but it is not entitled to speak to the insured and pass them through forty sieves until it gives them even temporary aid. With me, Minister, this cannot be done! I would like to make that clear so that any bureaucrats can also hear it. We can't delay any more. The question of pensions will be resolved. The issue of settling will be dealt with. But I beg your pardon, in the public, for example, those who are waiting to receive a pension and will not get the pension they expect to receive themselves are 3%. In the former IKA, the percentage is a little higher. But are we going to block the system for these percentages? It can't be done. So we gave 31% more pensions in 2020 than you did. There were a million seven hundred thousand digital transactions in the FBI. It has started to pay the digital pension. We will proceed in this way to the payment of pensions by breaking bureaucratic blocks. Because, above all, it's the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u64	The speech is made by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Tsakloglu, for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I analysed in my prototype in the midst of the pandemic, the government supported all the workers. The numbers Mr. Hatzidakis mentioned are typical. There are more than one million seven hundred thousand workers who have benefited from them. And the vast majority are private sector employees. There are few categories of private sector employees who have not benefited from these measures and there are large parts of the self-employed who have also benefited from these measures. Apart from this, however, the Government has supported the National Health System in a number of measures which, although they are not my responsibility, I think I should mention them. The ESS was strengthened by over seven thousand ancillary staff recruitment. Two thousand and fifty doctors have been set up in intensive treatment units and a thousand nurses' posts. At the same time, infrastructure is also improved since we have already exceeded the three hundred intensive care establishment beds and Greece will reach the European average within the year with the additions that are constantly being made. And be sure that the additional support won't stop there. It will continue as long as it takes. I'm making this introduction to come to a request that returns more intensely with the pandemic. It is the incorporation of health into the heavy and unhealthy professions. I shall refer to what the government has already done on this issue, but I shall also explain why we must be careful and responsible in our actions. In May 2020, the Committee on the Crisis of Serious and Unhealthy Occupational Occupations was set up, with the aim of examining a number of requests and giving an opinion, subsequently, on the subject of work, specialisations or workplaces for heavy and unhealthy professions. The committee shortly before the celebrations delivered its conclusion, which is being carefully worked out by the Ministry of Labour's services at this time. And I say that we are considering the finding with caution for a number of reasons. In principle, heavy and unhealthy professions belong to the so-called ‘excellent law’ and the interpretation of the relevant provisions should be carried out on the basis of strict criteria by the competent institutions, except in any case for a broad interpretation by the administration, as well as a proportionate application to professions, spaces and specialties. The question of integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions should also be addressed, taking into account all aspects. In other words, there must be uniform rules between the public and private sectors, although unification is a time-consuming process in which careful and detailed management is needed. Secondly, health requirements are constant and are now coming to the fore because of the pandemic. Heavy and unhealthy professions are a permanent measure, but pandemic is an extraordinary situation. In addition, especially during the pandemic, it is not the exposure of all health personnel to the risk of the disease itself. Thirdly, account must be taken of both the financial impact of integration on heavy goods vehicles and the impact on the organisation and management of the national health system. Our Ministry and our fellow ministries - they are the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health - are considering all these aspects of the problem. The issue of BAE is distinct from the issue of the recognition of the disease as an occupational disease. While heavy goods give rights to early retirement, the designation of COVID as an occupational disease creates an obligation for the employer to take hygiene measures, to inform public authorities of cases, but also of a number of other obligations, which cover every aspect of work, and indeed, without any burden on workers at all. Already in our country in coordination with the other European countries, under No. 102/2020 for the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to biological agents at work, the coronary is recognised as a risk factor for the health and safety of workers. As a second step, we are working in the Ministry of Labour on the prospect of amending the d.d. 41/2012, containing the national list of occupational diseases to register the disease with cause of the SARS. However, it is clear that there should be checks so that the infection from COVID -19 is related to the professional space of the patient and not to its wider social activity. For us, these are basic systems to protect workers in their work, and that is where we bear great weight. In closing and returning to the general context of the question we are discussing today, I would like to stress that I am well aware of the fact that, as an economist and the Deputy Minister of Labour, the next day will not be easy and that the consequences of the health crisis are more serious for the whole of global economic activity. Water is, in fact, unpaid and that is why we are trying to protect our vulnerable citizens and prepare for a future which, in fact, seems too uncertain. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The Government and the Ministry of Labour will do everything necessary to keep business and work alive. The pandemic may have brought our economy into a difficult position again, but it has also brought a unique opportunity. With the funds from the Recovery Fund and the Structural Funds, as well as the unscrupulous commitment to the implementation of the structural reforms needed by the country, we must reform the economic environment, the labour market and our productive model, so that we can lead the country to a path of stable and sustainable development. We are already working in this direction, and we will continue to work closely. Mr President, if I could have a minute, I could answer two questions. I would like to refer to the questions from Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulou. The first thing you mentioned is in relation to the OECD report, which I have read. The report simply does not say what you are saying. It says any reforms should take place carefully. ........................................ However, in any reform, especially in pensions, which concerns sizes that are evident many years later, we must be careful and careful in every respect. That is why I told you before that we have all these other studies to which I have referred in addition to the legislation. I was also invoked by you and Mr Kalamatiano earlier because I did not give a cost assessment. I told you that these studies are now being prepared and I do not want to see just the gross cost, I want to see the net cost. I will come back to you, Mr Kalamatiane, because something you have asked me too. The Recovery Fund has asked for the cost of setting up the fund, which I think is reasonable. Now whether the low-pensions will be affected, I really didn't understand your argument. The rules are exactly the same, whether they are high-paid or low-paid the insured. At 6%, just as it is today for subsidiary insurance, it will be the contributions and the choices they will have and the others will not be exactly the same. Finally, I should like to refer to two arguments which Mr Kalamatiano has put forward. Greece was not the only country that had a problem of demographic ageing. All the Western European countries have had it and they are gradually starting to have it and too many developing countries now. What have these countries done? They went to occupational insurance, went to capitalist occupational insurance precisely for this reason. In Greece, what did we do? We made subsidiary insurance and made a supply-type subsidiary insurance, that is to say, exactly the same as the main insurance. And not only that, but we also gave higher rates of replacement than that given by the main insurance. In other words, we saw that we were going to the rocks and not only did we not turn, but we "fucked" to get there earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u66	As far as business is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u67	Do you see having such big professional funds? That's not what happened. Because in the other countries there are large, state-owned professional funds that are capitalised and these give very good returns, and that is what we want to imitate. I understand that the cost of transition is more difficult now, but also to be honest with ourselves. Besides, you suggested it yourself. What matters - and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said - is the net transfer cost, that is, we do not just want to cover it - and we will cover the old pensions, and what a dividend we can get. You referred earlier to the good 20 years of the Greek economy, the best we have in Greek history. It was from the beginning of the '50s to the early '70s. As I said before, to achieve a high rate of economic growth you want investment. Investments want funding. Funding can be domestic, it can be foreign. At that time foreign investments were minimal at the beginning and end of the period. So how was saving? Did the Greeks save so much? Oh, no. We had chrysophilia at first. Later, they put notes ahead to buy apartments. Where were the savings, you said so before. They were the reserves of the insurance system. That's how the economy went too fast. It is a different matter that workers with the return on investment should be better divested. I fully agree with you, but that is exactly what we are trying to do on a small scale now and we are going to achieve it. Finally, to conclude, you have an obsession with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou in the private funds. I explained quite clearly that the system will be public, the fund will be public. Where insurance companies go in here, I couldn't figure that out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u68	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want to start from Mr. Tsakloglou by turning the hierarchy into the ministry, but because it happens and I succeed him in Stepa, I'll start from there. When we talk about a need for overall support for the public health system, this must include all levels, from ICU to primary health, from doctors to nurses. So when you announce numbers, you must also do another act, tell us how many people left the system and not just announce arrests, mainly contract staff, subsidiary and a few permanent ones. The global conclusion from pandemic is that we want an expensive public health system, so that everyone can have access, if we understand that health is a public good and is not a commodity. If we do not agree on this principle, then no matter what you say to us, at least we do not convince us, I think the world, which has come to its conclusion. It closes the cycle of dogmatic neoliberalism, market worship alone, the perception that business profits are above people's health. You spoke - to get to them - on the issue of vaccination. First of all, the distribution is proportional to the population of vaccines in all European countries. That's right. Otherwise, we'd have another kind of competition. The question is, however, this: There is the Council of Europe's decision, where it says that restrictions on access to the patent must be lifted, so that we have as quickly as possible mass production of reliable vaccines and other factories, not by consultation that companies themselves will make, but on the initiative of the European leaders themselves. Nineteen factories in Europe today can do this work. Why does the Greek Government not sum up its voice with these powers? Because it insists on the logic of protecting the interests of companies - notable - in order to discover these vaccines, they were financed by public money. This is a huge contradiction, but it is a contradiction which is at the expense of public health and the peoples of Europe and not just. Of course, occupational diseases are something different from heavy and unhealthy. Firstly, the setting-up of a committee on the issue of heavy and unhealthy people had also been made in SYRIZA's day. You reconstituted the committee. There were cases of urgency which we did not expect the committee to give its opinion on which categories of workers will be included, as we did - and I know very well, because I was Minister of the Interior at that time - for school cleaners, these unfair and badly paid women most of all, who for ten, fifteen years are paid for 200, 300 euros - I may say a lot - in the month when they get them. In fact, their real employment relationship was not recognized. These were subject to the regime of heavy and unhealthy people. Is it now urgent to go beyond nursing staff and for couriers, for people, who work for the storage and packaging of all online transactions involving goods? Does a committee have to tell us that? Don't we understand that? Because we're all talking about teleworking, the big twists you make, how it changes our lives. He didn't come to leave. He's staying. Many large companies are already launching a reduction in their staff relative to their physical presence, regardless of their pandemic. They are told 'you will work from home'. They're renting offices to lower their costs. Therefore, the work of these people will be practically increased. You know what it means to work a packer in a big warehouse? There's a bad time coming. You'll order something, I guess. I don't know. You may have a wonderful wife and a good cook, but at some point you will say to her: "Stay and order something from the outside." Who will carry this and what conditions? We walk in the streets and all we see is machines right now. So, as a matter of priority, this right must be recognised to them too. Ladies and gentlemen, you have referred to the question of the use of the fund's resources. Watch out. If this exploitation takes place under terms and conditions, prerequisites for a Memorandum type, we lost the train. Because this debate is open. We lost the train. A relative degree of freedom must be given on the basis of these three major fund resources guidelines, enabling each government to adapt the absorption of this money on the basis of the characteristics and weaknesses of the domestic production model. Otherwise, it can't be. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take from my tritology, Mr President. Otherwise, it can't be done. It cannot, in other words, be an indirect subsidy for services products offered by strong European economies, but only to relocate them to Central Europe. We need to see from our own productive model and where we want to take it. Mr. Hatzidakis recommended that I go back to industrial. I hope that after yesterday's law - University of Piraeus now - the police will allow me, Mr Hatzidakis. If it is, I'm gonna ask you for a letter of recommendation so that I can get into college. That is why there must be asylum, and that is why there must be free movement, which is why university speeches must be free, so that we too, which we have finished some years to hear some things again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u70	I'm afraid as it was until now you couldn't go either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u71	Have you tried it? Because I've talked to the University of Piraeus and after my graduation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u72	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u73	All right, now, you calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u74	I'm calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u75	There are some unanswered questions. What about the collective agreements, which expire until March? It is nineteen sectoral, nine dealing with homogeneous, four hundred operational and one with arbitration. Will they be extended as long as this special regime of restrictive measures exists? It's a very serious responsibility to you. And, of course, all the time has to be given to liberate - if everything goes well - the collective bargaining and end up where the social partners have to end up. What is going to happen - you have not told us - on the issues of public works programmes concerning the municipalities? I don't understand it. We remove resources from the system, remove resources from the OAED, protest and collapse municipalities, do not become permanent recruitment and at the same time lead to a dead end. So what about this? They're asking you to. The CEDEFOP yesterday met - if I am not mistaken - and asked you the same question. Mr Katrin, I should like to remind you, too, that one must not make any leaps and bypass certain times of governance and much more must not bypass and ignore what SYRIZA did when it was governance. As far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, we increased the rate of compulsory recruitment to permanent public recruitment by 15%. In fact, there have also been cases, which have also been implemented in this Chamber by the representatives of the New Democracy - because it was the big competition for self-government - we were being accused of. We were told: "But, well, here it is about cleanliness. Are you going to put in an ABOUT? There were cases, however, in the area of cleanliness compensation, where this margin was available and where people went. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou also remembers them until she has the responsibility of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. The period of governance of the New Democracy and PASOK since 2009 is the longest period of disinvestment in the history of the place. Someone else has the name and someone else has the favor. So, come on, the promises and one thing you told us it started on Christmas, starts in March - the previous Christmas - investment in Greek, I hear nothing! What's going on now? Is SYRIZA interfering? What's going on over there? Looks like the investor can't, they're getting shapes, they're dating shapes. Is there a credibility of the investors? Is there a plan? So what are you going to say now to your voters? What are you going to do about the minimum wage? Based on the mechanism you have, will you reduce it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Skourletis, please, it's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u77	Do you know how much I have secondary and how much tritology?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u78	We're not collecting the time now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u79	No, we'll get them all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u80	No, let me tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Brutsis spoke more than I did while he was entitled six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u82	There are MPs waiting from 12 noon to finish. Respect us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u83	Listen, Mr. Skourlet. I'm sorry, I'll give you the time I take you away now by interrupting you. But, look, don't blame the Bureau! Let me start with the second one you said. Mr Brutsis as former Minister of Labour is entitled to an additional year, that is to say five minutes. Of course, there has been tolerance from the Bureau to tell the truth. Secondly, you in your protology spoke eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u84	No, seventeen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u85	Hey, are we gonna play the courgette now? I beg your pardon very much, you have now spoken a quarter when, in total, your speaking time is twenty-one minutes. And tolerance has existed, and, of course, there has been so far in your dentistry, but not when the Bureau reminds you that you must conclude, you must also ask for the change. All right, you have an understanding too. And don't forget that they are following up-to-date questions from colleagues who are waiting happily just like the ministers. So do what you can, soon, so that the Minister closes the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u86	Good. So I would also like to remind Mr Hatzidakis that, apart from this complex algorithm that he has presented to us in relation to the disbursements from the 'SURE' programme, why is Portugal, which is a country with a corresponding population and GDP as much as we are, having three times as much absorption, three times the amount? That is a question that should concern you. As you should be concerned about why, for the first time by a recommendation from the Greek state during the period of SYRIZA's governance, the EIA through its controls led to the existence of the highest percentage of overtime payments in the private sector. Because we believe in the control mechanisms. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you this: you have already borrowed EUR 12 billion by the end of December with various exits through the interest-rate stamps. These correspond, if you had done so, to the programme of proposals and measures submitted by SYRIZA to support the work and small and medium-sized enterprises. You didn't. On the contrary, the way you have given and directed the aid went to companies that did not need it, and that is why there is also an increase in deposits in the banking system at the moment. This money has been untapped. There was this money anyway because there was a pillow of EUR 37 billion and you used it the worst. Finally, you signed your signature, gentlemen of the government, in the recession for very specific reasons before the pandemic, first of all because you abolished the social dividend that SYRIZA gave, stopped the major projects, undermined the "PHILDIMOS" programme in self-government, which involved small regional projects, undermined the history of collective agreements, which, as we said, led to an increase in their wages. Do not forget that the increase in the minimum wage, which took place on SYRIZA at EUR 650, was going to be the second instalment at EUR 751 when you abolished it and that made its contribution to a development process. As far as investment is concerned, there has also been a reversal of the previous downward trend in direct investment, foreign capital inflows. I am referring to foreign fixed capital inflows. The country's own exports increased over the days of SYRIZA. It was not by magic what was done on SYRIZA, namely that the downward trend was reversed and, of course, we had an increase in employment and jobs. So here, on all these fields, you'll be counted and rated, gentlemen of the government. There won't be a pandemic alibi sometime. There'll only be your neoliberal narrow head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your tritology so that the debate can be concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I shall refer to a few areas which I have not mentioned so far. Heavy and unhealthy, Mr. Chacloglu spoke. All I have to say is what Mr Brutsi said earlier. After you wanted in such a galantic way for workers to regulate the issues of heavy and unhealthy people, why didn't you use the four and a half years that you were in the government to do so? Secondly, for public work, I shall directly tell you that this is not my first preference, in that if we have X-funds, I prefer to go to subsidised employment and training programmes or retraining, because I believe that this money is more of a place. However, because we are in exceptional circumstances, we will also try to reach agreement with the European Commission, of course, to see how we can proceed with public works programmes. The next item is the minimum wage. Date of birth: (a) 1966, (b) 1964. This law was implemented by you when you were government. Do not worry, we will apply the same law, with all the procedures provided for. The pain of workers should be demonstrated and underlined when Mr Brutsi passed the provision for the reduction of insurance contributions. This meant almost 4% increases for the workers and you voted against. Therefore, do not go back to this now. I don't think it helps you. Classical contracts. From the eighteen sectoral collective agreements concluded in 2020, the fourteen were held from March onwards, that is, while the pandemic and the restrictive measures had begun. This means that the social partners, taking advantage of the technological potential that has now come to the fore, can and can, despite the pandemic constraints, negotiate and conclude collective agreements. The Government therefore, because it believes in the freedom of contracts and negotiations, as I assume you, encourages the social partners to go further into other sectoral collective agreements. Last comment, Mr President, on the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the so-called Memorandum Obligations put forward by Brussels, I would like to say clearly about the Ministry of Labour - that is, of course, the case for all the programmes, but I am talking specifically about the programmes of the Ministry of Labour - that is a similar logic to what we have for so many years, and with you and us and with all the parties that have been in power, with the NRP. Certain specific conditions must be met. We're talking about programs that go in three directions. One is digital modernisation, with the first and foremost digital modernisation of EFKA further. I don't see anything strange, the memorial, the epilepsy, the unpleasant. Secondly, they are the social protection programmes for the disabled, for the single parent families, for the Roma, in any case, where I still see nothing wrong or strange. The third package of the Recovery Fund is all actions for training and retraining. I think you should be in favour at first. As also in principle, you should also be in favour of the effort that we are going to do and support it with a bill so that the money given for training and retraining is put to the ground for the workers and the unemployed in particular during this critical period. We'll be here, and we'll see how you place yourself in the initiatives we take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on number 12/10/20-1-2021 of a topical question is closed: 'To protect workers, support their income, safeguard their working and insurance rights, restore collective bargaining, ensure health and safety at work and address unemployment'. Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions we will proceed to an interruption of five (5') minutes on the basis of the health directives, which we have from Parliament's health services.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before entering the debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House the updates of Monday 15 February 2021, which reads as follows: A. Current Questions to the First Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The 381/4-2-2021 topical question by MP Kilkis of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Dirk deterioration of the General Secretariat for Family Policy and Gender Equality (GOOPI) and gender equality policies". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 378/3-2-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Government claims to support workers and businesses during the pandemic'. 3. The Question No 389/8-2-2021 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for a reopening of the "Thorakos Hospital" in Patras. 4. Under number 394/8-2-2021, a timely question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Skouri, Halkidiki: The government has frozen the implementation of the Skopje decision for two years. for metallurgy.’; B. Current Questions to the Second Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The 382/4-2-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Perhaps at last for the unemployed". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 386/8-2-2021 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Sufficient staff shortages in the two hospitals of Argolida”. 3. The Question No 390/8-2-2021 by F' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems in the Primary Care for Health at the Hospital of Larissa". 4. Under number 395/8-2-2021, a timely question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The government is wronging small PV investors rather than strengthening them." 5. The question by number 401/8-2-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Florina - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Relocation of a local community of Valtoneres of the Municipality of Amynteios, Regional Unity (PT) Florinas due to mining activities for the production of electricity". 6. The question by number 387/8-2-2021 of the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Will small businesses draw the liquidity needed for their survival?" 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 391/8-2-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Only-day pay reductions from OSH administration". 8. The 396/8-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Anarchitectic aquaculture industry or half Greece with the new special regional planning area of Organised Rural Development (OHIM). Poros and Itolokarnania are at the forefront.’ 9. The question by No. 402/8-2-2021 was raised by MP Florina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Sufficient expropriations in the Achlada Florina area from the company "Achlanda Lignite Mines S.A.". 10. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis under number 388/8-2-2021 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Supporting a second chance for lost debt arrangements to the insurance funds". 11. The Question No 392/8-2-2021 by MP B3 'South Athens Sector of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Extension of fixed-term contracts with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance'. 12. Under number 397/8-2-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Minalo and Lyceum: a hundred seventy-five wind turbines in "NATURA 2000" are threatening nature. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 399/8-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "When will you finally convene the Social Security Council (SKA) for an opinion on the findings of the integration of health into the heavy and unhealthy professions submitted by December?" 14. Observed. The number 393/8-2-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Do not apply the exclusion of sports clubs from land-based facilities." Questions - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2955/28-12-20 question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Evaluation of unemployed graduates in the proper functioning of e - EFKA". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 3156/11-1-2021 by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that four questions will be discussed and will not be discussed in consultation. We enter the debate of the first under No. 405/8-2-2021 topical question of the second-round question of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Strengthening local government for the maintenance and promotion of monuments dedicated to the National Palaggenesia throughout the territory". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, Minister, the world-wide celebrations of the Palaggenesia Nationale have as their starting point heroic sites, but also the heroic ones, which have emerged throughout the revolution until the establishment of the Greek state. After all, the sacred places, the faces, the struggles, even the catastrophic battles and, more generally, the heroic acts were also the occasion that the whole known world was mobilised, and much more the Europeans, where they met together with the Greek people's attitude of freedom and independence, the spiritual elite of that time, as well as strong economic factors, as well as the large part of the philosophers, which we must not forget. On account of my thoughts, this is the deep knowledge of what is happening in particular in the heroic places that are, as we do, the Peloponnese, Roumeli and some islands in particular of the Argosaronian island, where in these areas you see the mementos of these heroic periods everywhere, but these monuments are in poor condition, they are abandoned. I am of course referring to heroes, males, bushes or even to certain ruins or somewhat preserved buildings that are now mentioned. So I thought, in view of both the regression and the celebration of the two hundred years, that I would ask the Ministry, in this respect, to activate self-government with various circulars and meetings with the CEDEFOP, which also has an excellent president, so that the parties involved in the event of the celebrations and to show to the extent that these points can be made. We will also need financial support, not in the major municipalities, of course - we are not talking about them - but, in small municipalities, they cannot and want state support for this good purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Pipilis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Pipilis, for the question she gives me the opportunity to say that there are short-term and medium-term actions which are linked to the National Palagenesia, two hundred years after the Revolution of 1821. As regards short-term, municipalities may carry out conservation and promotion works on monuments dedicated to the National Palageia, covering the costs incurred by them through the annual self-resources allocated to them, the known CFP. Last year around 141 million euros were made available. A corresponding amount will be made available this year. In addition, a decision was signed last Friday to allocate EUR 24.3 million to eighty-nine municipalities, such as those mentioned, island and mountainous municipalities, to cover either their operating costs or their investment activities and projects, including those which are naturally linked to the promotion of such monuments. You should also be aware that we will support, with extraordinary funding, the municipalities which, because of the pandemic, have been declining their revenues. We are in agreement with the Ministry of Finance on this and, as happened last year, it will be this year. By the end of February we will be able to announce the exact amount and the distribution per municipality. This is about short-terms. However, there is also the program "Antonis Tritsis", in which from 27-10-2020 there is an open invitation - the number AT14 - entitled "Greece 1821- Greece 2021", in which the Ministry of Interior through the EEAE invites the municipalities and regions of the country to submit proposals in order to include relevant actions and projects in the programme in the context of the completion of exactly the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution of 1821. The total budget of this call shall be EUR 50 million and the bodies may submit their proposals by 31 March 2021. The municipality can therefore make relevant decisions through their collective bodies and submit relevant requests for funding, together with, of course, the necessary technical bulletins. Actions that are eligible are: Establishment and creation of new museums and permanent exhibitions, digitization of historical archives, museum stock and cultural heritage, educational actions and digital applications, as well as other actions with cultural, tourist and environmental imprints. The EESC is in the process of examining the requests submitted, and in accordance with the agreement we have with the committee responsible, led by Mrs Angelopoulos, the first integrations are expected next week. Therefore, both in the short term and in the medium term, we are looking to highlight such monuments and its print more widely in the way it suits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u95	I wanted by the way, since you are so prepared and available, to meet my own thoughts. As I am well aware of Greece, and in particular of these areas, which are included in this package to highlight localities in view of the celebration of regeneration, what I have seen for years, Minister, is that there is a total lack of uniform aesthetics at all levels, especially in the cities of the region and much more in the villages. So I would say, since you are a coordinate, organized ministry, in consultation with Greece 2021, in some areas, if you can direct with technocrats and people of culture and art and especially historical to the existence of a uniform aesthetic character, so that everyone does what they want with their personal tastes. I'll add that the special point that needs design is lighting. How was the Parthenon lit up and made world news? How was the Temple of Hephaestus enlightened and world news made? If you can do a committee together with the specialities that I have told you, so that you can direct the small municipalities, which in any case do not have the know-how or the aesthetic that is imposed, because all of this will provide money from the Greek taxpayer and should have a duration of time. You understood my mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Pipilis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Two aspects in my answer. The first relates to the proposal you are making, which I find to be very interesting. I will take immediate care of this thinking, how it can be transformed into action, which requires coordination, as you said, of many, not only local municipalities, but also of the CEDE, the Ministry of Culture and, possibly, other involved, who could offer their port so that we can have the best possible result.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u98	The Museum of Parliament knows them perfectly. The Old Parliament, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u99	There are a lot of people involved. But we can coordinate and bring about a good result. On the issue of technical competence, particularly in the size of small municipalities throughout the territory, we are making two moves: the first is fire and short-term. Through the EBRD we move on to the recruitment of fifty engineers - the process is at the stage of the promotion of interviews and evaluation of candidates - in order to make them available throughout the territory, especially to small municipalities, to help them to prepare mature and correct studies. The second is through recruitment planning, which you know has started since the last bill was passed this year, to prioritise the needs of recruitment at municipal and regional level, especially in technical skills, where there is a serious shortage. I believe that we will soon be able to say more about this to give a relief to a lasting problem of the last decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with number 380/4-2-2021 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "What is the evolution of the implementation of the measures and actions announced on 19 June 2020 for the development of the Bytina State Foundation". The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Ioannis Economou, will answer. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because we have a long time to talk about this question, I would like to tell you that SYRIZA has not been able to do anything in the last four years as a government. But you've come too, you've been fussy and we have two years now that you haven't done anything. Today is the fifth timely question. Mr. Borides came to Bytina. He told us he'd do it. He told us that the Vitinas State Foundation, the Triantafyllidium, will be upgraded with money already in existence, not from money that is not there, and today we are here again to see what is going on with this study. Two years of the New Democracy Government and four years of SYRIZA government, we are going to six years until now, Mr President. The study has not yet progressed. There's the Minister of SYRIZA here, asking how many years PASOK has been. I don't know if you were with PASOK or without PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u102	Don't have a dialogue with the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u103	I say: PASOK, in 2012, which started this whole process, found the money and for the first time too much money went to the foundation. But today, in order to be able to upgrade the institution, we have to do what we have decided, what everyone says. I ask you straight away, Minister: what is the timetable for the government and the Ministry to implement the action, for which everyone agrees? It's simple and understandable. I think all the citizens of Arcadia need your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Always very pleasant to answer questions, which have to do with substantial moves towards the qualitative upgrading of the country's productive model, the agricultural sector, with individual support of dynamic sectors of the Greek region, such as the one described in your question. I also understand your anxiety - if you would like - and your complaints about a delayed implementation by the Greek state, the Greek Government, an action that is in favour of a very dynamic productive activity, but also for the benefit of the inhabitants of the region. So I will tell you specific things, as I can answer them on the basis of the information, which I have from the moment we are at the Ministry, and with the commitment that what we are talking about today is going to be closely monitored, so that we can achieve concrete results. In particular, Mr President, the creation of the apiculture museum in Bytina has, as you already know, been signed, the World Heritage and Museums Convention of total VAT value up to EUR 18,600. We are monitoring the development of this contract. When we do well to have the final premeditation, for which we will be pressing in the fastest and most effective way, we will move quickly and directly to the next stage, which is the creation of the apiculture museum through the opening of the competition. At the same time, I must tell you - and I am sure you know it and do not ignore it - that, for the proper functioning of the Bytina State Foundation there, a number of other actions or work have to be carried out, the cost of which is about EUR 60,000, as has been said and the coverage of which will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance's Habitats Directorate. These work concerns the creation of a model apiculture, which will serve as a laboratory for the dispersion of apiculture hives in Mount Mainalos, the installation of educational and experimental cotton, the supply of a pumping complex, earthmoving operations and the rest. All this, after contacting the Ministry of Finance's responsible Heritage Directorate, I can inform you that the relevant funding approval will be sent to the Ministry's Finance Directorate during this month and you will also have more direct and substantial information on the course of this financial support. So, we said we're waiting for the premeditation. We will press together with the respective departments of the region and the relevant departments of the Arcadia Prefecture, the contractor, for the regular preparation of the premeditation and, immediately after the premeditation, we will proceed very quickly to the call for the museum competition. I shall return to my dentext with two - three useful things in terms of education and training.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u107	Minister, did I hear the study for the hospital is 18,000?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u108	The premeditation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u109	The premeditation. I would like to say to you, Mr President, that there is a transfer revenue of around 8 million at the Trianta Flynn Foundation. On 19-6-2020 Mr Vorides spoke of the creation of a beekeeping museum costing 240,000 euros. The premeditation is 18,000 euros. I don't know what connection it really has with each other, and I don't understand anymore, and what the apiculture museum is, because the funds, Minister, are very large. From the 18,000 to 240,000 amounts are very large, they are very different. I understand all the ministers that change. What can we do? This is life. They change governments, ministers. But here, so that we don't yell again, don't come back and let us know at the last minute, I suggest something if you really want to. I think you really want to. I always take the good intention of a new Minister to want this work to be done. We need to find a way to be able to do what we all agree. In Arcadia, the whole political world agrees, unless PASOK has said so first or anything else. We need a timetable, and we need to find it with the sums. It is therefore another 18 000 premeditated and another EUR 240,000 spent, Minister. It's a big difference. Another 60,000 more that was promised - I can also get you the publications - Mr Vorides in Arcadia. I'm very intent, because I think as long as we're losing opportunities. And when opportunities are lost, opportunities are lost for my region too, apart from who is a government. I will go back to the matter. I've asked twenty-three topical questions. Please have a meeting with the Minister as well, let us tell you again the issues with the servants, set a timetable, and in a 20-day time-frame to see what you have finally decided to do. Otherwise, we're going back again. And the worst is, Mr. Economou, that you are a man involved in the primary sector, that it is unfair to have 8 million from Triantafylides and not to be able to exploit them for the benefit of a region. We don't get them from the Public Investment Programme, we don't get them from the NSRF, we don't get them anywhere. Thank you, Minister. This is the first time I have asked you, a new Minister I respect. I want to see that what you said today is really going to happen. We'll be here to see if you believe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much. Obviously you are absolutely welcome to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and we will pursue this meeting, if there are any misunderstandings, so that we can catch the thread from where it was lost to move on again. In order to avoid misunderstandings about what I have said, I will tell you that I am not talking about the final study, the amount of which may be the amount you have said. I am referring to the pre-study already assigned to this company, which will obviously be the forerunner for the next steps. What we need to do and not done so far is to force the contractor to complete the premeditated study. I imagine that, in order to choose this way of entrusting the premeditation, it would be the necessary procedure to go to the following steps. I should also like to say that this is a commitment, which we are giving today as the Ministry of Rural Development, that we will obviously exert the pressure we have to exert on the contractor, obviously, and we will make this meeting within the next 20 days, as you said, to see what other things we need to get back to where they are incomplete. I should also like to say that we are following this issue not only with regard to the necessary financial instruments or, at any rate, with regard to what needs to be done to make use of the resources of the legacy and to move forward, but also with various actions to keep a lively eye on the issue of training for apiculture in Arcadia, with a core of Bytina for the very special and dynamic dimension that the apiculture sector has there. Let me say something I'm sure you know. The Institute for Agronomic Sciences organises each year programmes, distance education seminars, to improve the knowledge and skills of both farmers and others. In fact, he is already in contact with the Municipality of Gortini for the preparation of these seminars. At the same time - because this has been part of your question - on the staffing of the Bitini State Building, as you know, a position of Geoponou Technology has been planned, a position of the IC of Agricultural - Animals on the 3K/2020 ACC notice. The procedures for this notice are in progress without the final results of the AACC yet to be issued. And we're watching these. Obviously, we want the cell to stay alive and properly deployed there. And, obviously, education, research, development, anything that can add value to any production activity is in our priorities. What delays have been observed - which are not delays due to our own intentions, but also to the circumstance and the environment we live in - we are here to work together so that you do not have to repeat and not be forced to multiply the number of questions themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with our second question with No 403/8-2-2021 on the second question of the SYRIZA MEP - the Evangelos Apostle to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘State payment of state financial support to farmers affected by the floods of 2017 and 2018’. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u113	Minister, this is our first meeting in the context of parliamentary control since your term of office was taken up. I hope in these difficult hours, which the rural area is experiencing, and particularly because of the government's abandonment of pandemic conditions, which have influenced the rural area, your term of office will help to alleviate the rural world. I come to Evia, in our region, which, in particular in recent years, has experienced extreme weather and difficult situations of forest fires. Because of all this, not only have we had massive disasters in the rural area, but, unfortunately, we have experienced a very great tragedy, the loss of human lives. In fact, ELGA estimates of damage, relating to the rural area, were made. Payments to those associated with similar insurance have been made. But at the same time the ELGA - as always - counts the damage to production or equipment and generally to installations not covered by the respective ELGA premiums. So we have the following loose ends: In 2017 in the area of in particular the municipalities of Dirphies - Messapians and Kymis, we had snowfalls such as that that created a very big problem. There is, therefore, an unfinished payment there, because in early 2019 the restorations were made in the area concerned and were paid for up to a certain period of time. However, these estimates related to after the summer of 2019 remained outstanding. We're talking about the same space now. The farmers who have suffered the damage and who have been entitled to such state financial aid have not been paid. There is a problem for 2018, which has been flooding in this case in the Mandudi, Lake and Agia Anna area. There are not yet the restorations, so they are waiting for them to be paid. The same goes for 2020. Of course, even there, because there are some specific times that these processes require, you have not been able to respond. People are on hold because they are experiencing very difficult situations, and you must speed up these procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u114	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u115	So we ask you: When and with what amounts will these farmers be rewarded for the state financial aid? I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u116	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Apostle, Minister, I have been watching for years and because of your geographical proximity, your interest in the region, in your place. You were Minister for Rural Development and Food. You know the mechanisms and procedures well. Therefore, you are aware that by the Ministerial Decision of 2018 and 2019 the decision was taken to activate State financial aid measures to Evia affected by the extreme weather phenomena that caused flooding in 2017 and 2018. We are all aware of this, and you are aware of it, that state financial aid measures are aid coming from the state budget and are paid in order to preserve rural activity. As a result, they relate only to established costs. The restorations must be made, and people must be assured and compensated. In Evia, in particular in the municipalities of Kymi, Aliveni and Dirfion - Messapion, two thousand eight hundred seventy-four declarations of damage to plant capital, mainly olive trees damage to frost trees and snowfall. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. What's happened to this day? To date, around EUR 700.040 has been paid to producers. The payment of 250,000 more is due. For this money, the restorations were checked in the summer of 2020 and at the moment the ELGA is in cooperation with the relevant ministries in order to proceed as soon as possible with the payment of aid through the State budget. I would like to point out here, Mr President, something. Let me remind you of something that I'm sure Mr. Apostleu knows about. It is worth noting that the 2017 Annual Financial State Aid Programme has included many regions of the country affected by disasters, with a EUR 10 million being exceeded. It's 10 million euros that didn't exist. If we are to be able to cope with this overrun, we can find the money to be consistent with our obligations, the ELGA has come in contact with the Ministry of Finance in order to settle this overrun. As regards the case of the Municipality of Mandudi, Lake and Agia Anna, concerning the financial aid programme in 2018, sixty-three total declarations of damages were submitted from flooding phenomena mainly involving fixed capital and stored products. Obviously, people must be compensated. Obviously the difficulties that followed also deepened the problem and maximised, if you like, and the need to stand by the state. The problem, however, is that when the municipality received the claims for damage, it was found by ELGA that a very large number of files from the applicant producers showed serious deficiencies. That's where we are now. They lacked proof and everything possible in cooperation with the local players, in order to make these producers the beneficiaries, not to lose any money, which they have to receive, and to compensate for the damage they have suffered, so that the State can stand side by side and perform its role, all the more so that the conditions are such that we do not let the producers not have what they are entitled to as income aid, as compensation for the damage they have suffered because of their disasters and extreme weather conditions. We are in this process and we are watching it closely. Once the supporting documents are as they should be, you can be sure that the state will do what it has to do and the producers who are failing to get the compensation they have to receive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u118	Good, Minister. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u119	Minister, you still haven't committed yourself. In particular, it is incomprehensible for these two hundred and fifty thousand, where the checks have already been carried out and there is no reason to delay. You say: 'We have exhausted the amount relating to State financial aid', perhaps you could have used it before, but now, once the European Commission has solved all the obstacles that might exist with regard to the surpluses and all of them, you have no problem at all. On the other hand, you do not have a problem with available funds from the state budget. So you must immediately give the money. What you have invoked for the Mandudi area, namely that they have problems, look at, communicate the tables at last, so that a substantial job can be started. If you make this move, then within three, four, five months will have completed the process to get paid. And since we are discussing, what I see is that we are also concerned about, is that we need to shorten the time of the payment of state financial aid. This four-year time is far away, I would say, from the need for relief that the space needs. We have made some efforts at that time and we have reduced the time to pay compensation from the ELGA related to insurance and, of course, we have taken care of these state financial aid which needed the European Commission's permission. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But don't forget, Minister, that the memorandum conditions were different, on which we moved - we couldn't do other things - and the conditions now that give you this possibility. So try as soon as possible to shorten the time. At the same time something needs to be done with ELGA. This dissemination that you have made - particularly the previous Minister - that the private sector is coming to solve the problems by entering into the process of safeguarding agricultural production, has created a major problem of personnel leaving, which you know. A lot of people left not only for retirement but generally left the ELGA and you have a problem. Pick it up! There is no way to get in this time - for us, never to enter - the private sector in the insurance of rural areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u120	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u121	Invoking the particular conditions during the memorial period raises a great deal of talk. However, even during the period of the memoranda, when there were great and extreme disasters both in the country and elsewhere, there was always room for the mechanism to move quickly and to give the people in need. In any case, in order to close the part of the question and say a few words to these very interesting things you have said, I should like to say that the communication of the tables on which you have told me will take place within the week, Mr Apostle and our purpose is to conclude in February. So from there, too soon they'll get all the rest of their way. In the course of the week, we will see to it that the tables are communicated. From there on, I would like to say two things, Mr President. Regarding the treatment reserved by the state - leave the government - to the world affected by the 'Januan', to all tons and to all people a very substantial discrepancy compared to the behaviour of the state compared with similar disasters in the past. The world has been compensated in time. People quickly took their money. Obviously, there may have been some minor injustices and some misunderstandings or, at any rate, some failures, which will be corrected. The general conclusion is that the State mechanism after the ‘January’ operated as it had never operated in the past. Why am I saying it? I'm not saying it to say good or to tell the people who took the money and they know it. I say this because perhaps the next bet we have is to create a permanent mechanism of this kind. What was the pathogen that we have seen in our lands and villages many times, Mr. Apostolos, and you in Evia and I in Fthiotida in various disasters? We've seen a lot of responsibilities, various funds have to work together to provide compensation, many steps to go through to make assessments. There is a need for the experience of the 'Janu' and the way in which the state acted and quickly compensated people in time, to be a pilot and a driver for a permanent mechanism that will produce these kinds of results when they come - I hope they will not come back - natural disasters of this intensity. From that point on, I'll just say a word about the ELGA. I think that no matter how much one wants to stand critically, he cannot have his reservations, he cannot see that the ELGA has in the past six to seven months, and he has made great strides in his attitude towards the insured, with regard to the compensation and payment given to the 100% - something he has never done in the past - with regard to the possibility of obtaining the funds, the 30 million that he is entitled to, but no other budget has allocated them over the last four, five years, so that he can compensate for the correct percentage and at the same time also cover his operating expenditure. We haven't reached the end of the road. There is a great process of digitising the activities, controls, assessments of the ELGA. There is a process of study by the World Bank for things that we can change in the ELGA regulation and for things that we can change in its relationship with the insured. One thing is not called into question - and we have told all tons - that the ELGA will still be the arm of the state that insures and compensates Greek farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Minister. As mentioned at the beginning of the topical and urgent debate, six questions will not be discussed. And these are: The second, number 384/5-2-2021, topical question for the first cycle of SYRIZA's Athens - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Friends to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on “Who commands schools? The Ministry of Education or Racism and intolerance;’. The fourth under number 404/8-2-2020 topical question by MP First Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The opening of university institutions". The third question under number 3133/8-1-2021 of the cycle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Air Force Training Centre in Kalamata". The fourth under number 2967/29-12-2020 question of the cycle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The government initiatives on Elefsina Shipyards are contradictory". The second question under number 128/34/6-10-2020 and application for the submission of documents in the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Annoyance between producers about the opacity and unequal treatment of areas in the allocation of rights from the national reserve from 2017 onwards’. And finally, the first question under number 383/4-2-2021, first question by MP B1' North Athens, Nea Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Average of Kymis Avenue". And we continue with the last question. It is the first question under number 2461/8-12-20 of the SYRIZA Members' circle of petitions - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Strengthening cotton producers because of the low sales prices of the product due to the COVID -19 pandemic". Here, Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u123	Minister, since 7 December I have tabled this question on the specific support for cotton, signed by the twenty-three Members of the SYRIZA, in which there was no answer and had to turn it into a timely one, because it is precisely because we need to give answers to the support of this very important product for the rural economy, which has suffered these serious pressures on the price of coconut cotton, which has been given on the side of the divestments. And I can explain what I mean: since March last year, when the pandemic started with these debatable lokdowns, the third in number now, the pandemic has really caused a very serious disturbance in the agricultural food market, which may damage cotton, which may not belong to the narrow circle of agri-food products. However, due to restrictions on the movement of citizens and the restriction or closure of shops, the disposal and marketing of this very important product has been seriously affected. The predecessor Minister of the Ministry of Rural Development, Mr Vorides, has announced that he intends to integrate cotton into the cycle of agricultural products affected by COVID. In fact, he told us to wait for the image to be formed by completing the traditions of the product in the ginninghouses, so that it does not cost unnecessaryly. But I must tell you that the fact that the previous Minister said 'Let the product be sold at a low price in order to record the commercial cycle', as you can see, does not constitute a solution to the problem. Let me tell you that, for the second consecutive year, cotton producers' incomes are shrinking because of the prices paid by ginners to the final product of cotton, which is not even 40 minutes old. Loss of income is over 25%, because on the pretext of the pandemic, the divestors gave prices below the market value of the product, which I would like to tell you is on a rise since April last year, with a vertical peak of its commercial value - upwards always - last November. So what I want to tell you is that I see, I wonder if a speculative game is being played here, in which this speculative game by the Ministry of Rural Development remains an observer or, if you like, puts a back on the side of the ginners. From there on, of course, I would like to ask you what the role of this interprofessional cotton is, because it does not play its institutional role, that is to say it is a platform for dialogue, on the one hand, between cotton producers, on the other hand, between ginners, in order to deal with this very serious situation. As you are well aware, Mr Minister, the cotton producers are now protesting and at the top of the spear in cotton twenty-two rural clubs throughout the country are now on the way, really asking for the special support of cotton, because it has suffered this very serious pressure on the prices of cotton produced on the side of the ginning houses. So you understand and everyone realises that the special cotton aid for the economic survival of cotton producers is a one-way path. I would also like to ask you what other initiatives the Ministry intends to take to address this low competitiveness of this very important product. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And thirdly, what are you doing precisely for the proper monitoring of decision 1602 of July 2019, which concerns it? It concerns, firstly, the signature of private sales agreements between cotton growers and ginning machines and, secondly, the indication of clearly in the divestments of international prices, precisely in order to keep production up to date. Mr President, I would like to say to you, although I imagine that you know it, that cotton farming in our country has survived and exists to this day, because it was precisely the condition of the accession process of our country at the time of the EEC in 1981. I think it is worth the effort to maintain it, so that it is not eliminated as well because of non-profitable cultivation. It is no longer an interest in cotton producers. It goes beyond the cost of production, as you can imagine, to take 35 minutes per kilo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u124	Mrs. Jackres, you have your dentext after. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, it is true that the primary sector has also been influenced by the pandemic. The tops came down in our lives. The normality that we knew up to a year ago is no longer given, and that has its own, I would say, disastrous consequences, as the curve of supply and demand was roughly differentiated. It has affected, I would say, horizontally all the agri-food industry, a number of crops, from products, from activities. In the face of this development, everyone knows that the government is nothing but indifferent. He was on the side of the farmers. Back it up! It also supported individual crops through money provided by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It has for the first time supported producers in and from repayable advances. We can say more specific things then on it. Cotton is undoubtedly a very special product for the Greek state, for the Greek production machine. Cotton is very high in both the agendas and our priority, not only because it concerns hundreds of thousands of producers, but because it is, if you like, the vital cell for many parts of the Greek region and the Greek countryside, but also because - and it is not secret - its whole function from its cultivation to all stages of its movement is governed by a series of distortions that we must and must face. But to take things in turn, because the words and words are spoken are very important. I would really like to see and read statements from the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which said they would support cotton financially. Such words had not been said, such commitments and such statements had not been made. And they could not have been in a process that has evolved the whole story of cultivation, marketing, debate, conciliation between ginning and cotton producers. Because any such claim on the part of the state could be exploited by some distorted, i.e. exploit it and compress downwards, as some irresponsible voices did. What did they say? They said "Once it's the state to give you, let me pay you three, four minutes lower the kilo, after you get the compensation from the state." In no case did we put water on this mill, under any circumstances there was no declaration, commitment, announcement, announcement from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food in that direction, which would distort and distort the functioning of the market as it should have been. Does he have any support for cotton? It is one of the products that has been affected, as is many others. And the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, with open channels of communication with Greek producers, accepts requests, evaluates, measures, is in constant contact with the Ministry of Finance to see, within the framework of the financial possibilities available, what scope and what crops they should be strengthened. There is no doubt that cotton for Greece is a crop which is directly linked to the perspective of the agricultural sector and the primary sector. We supported her, we'll support her. The provision of Constantine Karamanlis to be an accession term, to rely on a pile of EU money for cotton, has kept cultivation alive and upright and in bad times. Good times have passed, but there have been bad times. It is a very big debate, which needs to be done on how the industry's competitiveness will grow, how it will be shielded, how it will become more durable, how it will get the money and the price it needs in its final commercial value, apart from subsidies and subsidies. Around 440 million, almost 0.5 billion, was the total of the aid received by cotton producers from the various sectors eligible, on the basis of Greece's agreements with the European Union for 2020 and, respectively, will also be in 2021, since we have succeeded in not having much major changes in the CAP. In my dentistry, Mrs Jackson, I will say two more words about the moves that we are planning in order to increase the competitiveness of cotton farming, strengthen the role of cotton grower and how we will try to strengthen and improve the commercial value of the product. Let me just say to you, Mr President, the first part of my position, that it is not in any of the Ministry's departments' knowledge that any complaints about the failure to comply with the ministerial decision you described are not in conformity. There is no complaint from any producer or cooperative in our knowledge that there are no invoice lists on the ginning grounds. Obviously the periodic checks were carried out, but in the Ministry's services - and I would ask you if you have such evidence at your disposal, we will investigate them immediately - it is not in any knowledge that there are no conditions and contracts, as they should be, and as specified in the ministerial decisions or prices in the ginninghouses are not posted. Besides, for anyone who is well aware of cotton cultivation, this is not the problem of distortion at the price that exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Jack, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u127	Minister, how important this crop is for both the primary and secondary sectors, namely processing, is is the fact that 2.4 million acres of cotton are being cultivated in our country today. First of all, I should like to say that both the primary sector and the processing, namely the ginning of cotton, are an integrated production system from which there are virtually 100 000 families, as long as they work in it as a hundred thousand people and the total value of the product cycle is about 1.5 billion euros a year. You understand that the total production is about three hundred thousand tonnes and that of 90% of the cotton is ginned exported - it is, in other words, a currency product - mostly in Turkey. First of all, I should like to say that the producers are very concerned because they are doing everything they can to improve the quality of the product produced with regard to cotton. They cultivate and long varieties and comply with all the suggestions of integrated management. This fact, Minister, you see that in recent years it is not as an added value to their income, the exact opposite. Do you think, with what you said, that the prices that the producers received this year, that is to say, even 40 cents of the price for bundle cotton, correspond to the international prices of the quality of the product? In any case, do you think the ginners gave the real value of the product? And if you believe it, you as a ministry what did you do? I understand that prices are being formulated freely, but always as you understand in the context of a dialogue there are pressures and the role of the Ministry is that. And to tell you something else, Minister, which is just as important. What you described exactly, that's exactly what you did. What did you do? You leave through leaks - and not just leaks, there are announcements from the Ministry - that cotton will be supported by the 'KMFUZO' programme. Where's that? Did you tell us anything about this? You therefore let it be leaked that there will be special aid for cotton as a leak over this entire period of time, that you grow fruitfruits hopes, that is heard by various ginners and byhistoric circles, so that the value of cotton is further compressed and speculated at the expense of producers. And as long as you are delaying giving this special aid or in any case, as I understand it from you, as long as you intend to permanently cancel it, you understand that you are worsening the position of cotton producers and in the end they will not even take 40 minutes. What I want to say to you - you understand it, and we all understand it - is that in a recent radio interview given by the new Minister, Mr Lebanese at the 'PRO theme' to Mr Pretenteris, he said that there are available both from national and from Community funds of around EUR 426 million to support the products affected by the COVID pandemic. To date, Minister, 270 million have been disbursed to support the various crops. Therefore, I believe that there is no financial problem. I will also tell you about the decision and the other initiatives you take to strengthen the low competitiveness of cotton and the proper respect of Decision 1602 of 2019, that this decision is not complied with, Minister, and is not respected, because precisely because the services of the Ministry of Rural Development do not supervise its implementation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u128	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u129	Mrs Jackson, I said exactly the opposite of what you claimed. And it matters when we talk, at least, to understand what our interlocutor says. I told you that there was no announcement, no leak, no announcement by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which would speak of any aid to cotton, neither from the previous political leadership nor from it, nor is there anything equivalent to 'KMFUZO'. And there is no, precisely because we know that this would create further burdens and distortions in a market which already does not function as it should and yet not in the interests of producers in a way that you and we would like. Therefore, it makes no sense to invoke things that did not happen and did not happen. I conclude by saying that we, as we accept requests for a number of products which the health crisis, the pandemic, the coronary has brought in a difficult situation because of the circumstances that we all understand have changed, the demands being measured, we accept them, we are in discussion with the Ministry of Finance and responsible and measured, we will give our answer when we are ready to talk with specific things and specific figures. On the other hand, Mr President, and Mrs Jackson, I think that the producers, who are listening to us and who are living for them, are their own income, are the way in which their children are studying, who live in their families, who are trying to meet their obligations, the debate that makes sense is not a debate which is constantly rotating around compensation, whether it relates to weather conditions or to the pandemic of the krone. They're valuable, they need it. Money's not missing from anyone. Life is expensive and difficult and any additional euro that enters family income is valuable. This does not, however, ensure the sustainability of the crop and does not respond definitively to someone who has linked their life to the field, to cotton, to this crop. What is needed is a plan, a perspective, is a solid policy, which will help farming to become more competitive. What is needed is a more substantial and effective function of both the interprofessional and producer groups and the better organisation of producers, so that their negotiating capacity can increase and the costs of cultivation fall. What is needed is a series of consumer interventions, which will also help to cultivate cotton, reduce production costs. What is needed is moves such as those recently achieved by ELGO "DIDITRA", that is to say, to achieve the standard of integrated management of AGRO-2 to be identified with the standards of the international cotton organisation, the Better Cotton Initiative, of the BCI. In other words, the Greek cotton which has a certificate of integrated AGRO-2 management is like having BCI standards, which in Europe is being paid and purchased better and more expensive. And what stays in us, stays in cooperative organizations, stays in the interprofessional government, is to exhaust all our tools, so that this certificate can be taken as added value by producers from the divestments. Is this done automatically? Is the Greek ginning industry common and the Greek trade culture between producers and ginners in this direction? Oh, no. It takes a lot of work in that direction. It is, however, a first step to give value to this thing with which Greek cotton growers are now shielded, this certificate that Greek cotton producers will have at their disposal. Let me tell you something more. In order to incorporate or encourage even more producers to make use of this provision, i.e. the success of the AGRO 2 to do it BCI, we are thinking through the next PAA to find funding actions that will support the producers and the costs needed to get into this integrated management and certification system so that they can negotiate and demand better prices for their products. We were next door. We're next door. We are planning policies to address the issues and the problems that have arisen in the health crisis. But cotton policy is a policy that must go beyond the limits of the situation, if we want it to have prospects, incomes and meaning for the people who live from it. This is the anguish of the government, and these are the actions that we will be planning with the growers, with the entire production chain in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-12-S1-commons.u131	With the consent of the House at 14.45 hours the sitting on Monday, February 15, 2021, at 13.00, on the subject of work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
