ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny on Monday, February 15, 2021, that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: The numbers. 394/8-2-2021, 395/8-2-2021, 397/8-2-2021, 401/8-2-2021 and 402/8-2-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Skreka. No. No. 387/8-2-2021 topical question, which will be answered by Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Skolakakis. No. No. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3156/11-1-2021 question (under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure), which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Vassiliou Kontozamanis. No. No. 378/3-2-2021 topical and urgent question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Georgios Zavvos. No. No. Question No 391/8-2-2021 topical and urgent question 2955/28-12/2020 question (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure), which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsaklos. No. No. 381/4-2-2021 topical question, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Ms Maria Syregella. No. No. Question No 396/8-2-2021 topical and urgent question, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. No. No. Question No 393/8-2-2021 topical and urgent question, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Mr Eleftherios Aygeakis. No. No. Mr Christos Staikouras, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. We will now begin with the eighth question under number 396/8-2-2021, on the second question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Anarchist aquaculture industry or half Greece, with the new special regional planning area of Organised Rural Development (OECD). Poros and Itolokarnania are at the forefront.’ In the timely question, as I said before, the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, Mr Tagaras, we have a huge issue which, unfortunately, has received very little publicity. It's the water farm spatial. A scholar until recently was Mr. Economou, your predecessor in this particular jurisdiction, who then left when he became a State Secretary. This spatial planning is becoming industrial parks for water farms. In the area of the Municipality of Xeromeros in Itoloacarnania we have an increase of 70% of the water farms and their indebtedness, so in the ecosystem. We have in Poros a huge part of the island's coastal area to commit precisely these aquaculture and even though there are international practices that are very clear. No more country puts no aquaculture in a coastal area. They put them - when they have to put them - into the sea. We have the example of Cyprus - and it also has a great impact on the quality of their products - where units have been installed from 1.5 km from the coast and within. They are also certified for non-use of antibiotics, contrary to the extensive use of antibiotics in us. That is why their products are sought on the international market, unlike our products which are actually sold below costs. Because it has a significant impact on the natural environment, on the ability of the natural ecosystem to respond to increased climate change, but also to commit carbon dioxide, I really call on you to withdraw the water-based farms' spatial planning, to bring it back as requested by the municipalities and mayors of your own party, such as the Mayor of Xeromeros, who was not even called, because he disagrees with the consultation in the Region of Western Greece. We also call on you and local authorities to reconvene the spatial planning, make substantial consultation, take account of the good practices that are being done worldwide and bring it back to approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr Tagaras has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, it is well known that aquaculture is one of the fastest growing sectors in the world. It is also true that they are a very important export product from our country to the primary sector. Of course, all those that are evolving in terms of usage must be well placed in the space and assess all possible difficulties or even side effects that can be created. Nothing without order and anarchy. You know that, in accordance with the Joint Ministerial Decision of 2011, the strategic importance of a specific spatial plan and sustainable development for aquaculture has been approved and the relevant strategic environmental impact study envisaged in each case, as well as the ones we are talking about. This Decision lays down general rules, principles and frameworks concerning the spatial structure, organisation and development of aquaculture throughout the country. In particular, the specific spatial planning shall define areas within which the establishment of areas of organised fisheries development can be established. There are also five categories of areas depending on their characteristics and the necessary areas for the best possible development of the sector and for the needs of new plants, extensions, modernisation or transformations, but always provided for a strategic environmental impact study and compliance with the rules laid down by the guidelines and the criteria for location. Following the introduction of the special spatial planning in 2018 with Law 4546, as you know, there has been an adaptation to the European Union Framework Directive 2014/89, which was incorporated into Greek legislation. This is also in line with the recent law of December, Law 4759, where it was possible to clarify and disconnect the land area, the coastal area, in which the classical rules of land planning apply to maritime planning. The establishment of the ongoing areas of organised fisheries development is therefore governed by the existing institutional framework and, of course, by its revision, because you have also referred to it, I would like to say that it is something that is constantly evolving, because all things are dynamic. Any negative experience, but also any adaptation needed not to cause side effects, so we are intervening and that is why it is under way and further planning. However, due to time, I shall refer to my dentext, so as to conclude the details of the areas of organised fisheries development that you referred to before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr Arsenis has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, since my basic studies are in spatial planning, it's not spatial planning to install pharaonic intensive aquaculture zones. Spatial planning is to see how best you use resources. Best use of resources based on international experience - and in Cyprus, we do not need to go far - is to get away from the coasts of aquaculture. Their effects on the marine environment are significant, they are enormous. At least go to places where sea currents can reduce intensity, concentration of impacts on the coastal area. Also, because many people are listening to us, will they wonder 'but good aquaculture is not environmentally friendly'? Every fish to feed, because it is carnivorous fish or at least for fish farms, needs multiple weight from that to eat other fish. In other words, we do not have an increase in fish stocks with fish farming. This is a legend released by industry. Now, we ask you to have the elementary, elementary participatory planning, to have local municipalities involved. Think of the Municipality of Poros, which was suddenly found committing one third of the island for aquaculture and is not heard by its opinion. What authority does this municipality have in his place? What authority do residents have to define the future of their country? The Municipality of Xeromeros, respectively in the other regions of Greece. We're asking you for the basics. We're asking you to withdraw this landscaping. And please do not repeat the argument that spatial planning is changing. I was a member of the National Spatial Planning Council in 2007 and 2008 when the EIA Spatial Planning and much more was formed, with all the dreadful things that went through the EIA Spatial Planning and still, in 2021, have not been corrected. If it were so dynamic, the spatial planning would have changed the EIA spatial planning a hundred times. Basically, it would have been abolished as it is. Unfortunately, those that you are now deciding through spatial planning are coming to stay and the cost for local communities, and for tourism, and for the quality of life of people there, in Poros, in Xeromeros and in so many other regions in Greece will be huge. That's why we're asking you to withdraw the water farm spatial planning before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u7	The Minister has the floor, Mr Tagaras, for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Colleagues, when spatial planning is late to take place and when it is late to review, there are certainly problems, because the data have changed. That's why I referred to it before. The fact that we are late to review is our fault. It's not the design. It is our fault that we do not see the dynamic development of things and do not adapt the requirements or problems that have been potentially extended. As regards in particular your institutions and your questions, the managing bodies of the PDO Poros and Echinian Islands, I would like to tell you that they have forwarded to the Department of Spatial Planning the Ministry of the Environment the documents planned for the establishment of organised receptors and for the development of water farms. The Department of Spatial Planning of the Ministry of the Environment and the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of Environment, the Department of Planning of Metropolitan, Urban and Peripheral Areas of the Ministry of Environment, the Department of Water Agriculture of the Ministry of Rural Development, as well as other departments have already checked the contents of the dossiers of the Organised Development Areas and have already formulated - or formulate because what I say - according to the law and the specific framework, their comments. The Strategic Environmental Impact Study and the Echinada Islands was put into public consultation on 8-2-2019 on the website of the Ministry of the Environment for Knowledge, as you said, while the Strategic Environmental Impact Study for Resources has been put into public consultation on the website of the Ministry of the Environment on 16-7-2020. As far as Echinada SPAs are concerned, therefore, the local environmental characteristics were assessed by the Ministry of Environmental Licensing, which is also the responsible department and, of course, there was a recommendation for specific environmental conditions in the presidential decree approving this PDO. With regard to the Poros SPAs, we are at the stage of completing the consultation and the adoption of the relevant report to the Environmental Licensing Directorate and there on specific environmental conditions. I would like to point out that during the consultation of the Strategic Environmental Impact Studies on fisheries, local bodies, municipalities, regions and regions are informed of the views, objections, proposals, all comments in the form of an opinion. All this shall be taken into account and taken into account by the competent authority to define all environmental conditions for the protection of these areas during the development of these actions. I would also like to say to you that at a more general level in the placement of the organised aquaculture reception areas, we have found - which is why I referred to the review - and problems arising from the activity itself. That is why we need modernization where there are issues that have not been foreseen before. That's why I said it's a dynamic process. The same applies, of course, in the preparation of the Strategic Environmental Impact Study, which also applies in these cases. I would also like to say that the consultation is given. Each person shall express his opinion and his comments and be taken into account. In the end, you know that all these projects and actions are carried out through the extradition of a Presidential Decree, which means that all of these are controlled by legality on all sides and by the parameters, in order to comply with the legislation and, of course, with the laws in force in the Council of State and in our Constitution. So there's a safeguard. Everyone is heard and at the end, measures are taken that protect against any activity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the first with number 381/4-2-2021 in the first cycle of SYRIZA's MP Kilkis - the Progressive Alliance of Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Diarical deterioration of the General Secretariat for Family and Gender Equality (GOPI) and Gender Equality policies". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Ms Maria Syregella. Mrs Agathopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I'm going straight to the question. You are here today to respond to the deterioration of equality policies from the first day your government has undertaken, but also for the unprecedented, pan-European originality that is being applied in our country in 2021, for which you have even received negative criticisms from all women's and feminist organisations, as well as from other bodies, from the former Secretary-General, including Secretary-General of your party and many others. What's that originality? Put family and demographic policies under the same umbrella as gender equality policies, assuming that the demographic problem is women's responsibility, assumption that could stand 50 years ago, but today it is unacceptable. You say that you are upgrading equality policies. We once again claim that gender equality does not concern you, it is not at all in the priorities of this government, since it has been eighteen months and you have not yet drawn up a coherent action plan, but you do not intend to implement what the SYRIZA government has drawn up. Nor do you have any public intervention in social matters relating to your sector. A discussion on family law has been opened for six months. Where are you? Only the Minister of Justice is placed for it. Did you get a seat? Will you consult with the Minister of Justice? Are you in charge, Minister? We want a response to that. Let me not mention your full anointment on other issues, such as the arrests of women in the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women or just the previous unacceptable attitude by the police authorities of Heraklion, who have unleashed two women in physical control, to whom - otherwise - they have checked to observe health measures. Where is the General Secretariat of Equality to take a stand on these? Where is the Minister who claims to have equality issues? Probably, we say, they're hidden behind family and demographic policy. After the saliva, too, which broke out for sexual harassment, rape at workplaces, but also the rapid increase in racial violence in the quarantine period, we would expect an integrated proposal to strengthen the network of structures to combat racial violence. Also, where are your proposals for the Recovery Fund? We're still waiting there. On the other hand, and I am closing down, Mr President, we see a series of policies of equality of the previous government, such as the theme week in schools, the 40% gender quota in local government, the gender quota in the boards of sports clubs. In fact, you are saying that you are taking and congratulating them, but don't say it again, because we don't have to go through this, to the people we know about equality. If you want, I'll explain it to you later. So you insist on something that's wrong. Everyone tells you and you insist. You did the same with the Ministry of Immigration. Finally, that's where you corrected your mistake. We are asking you to correct your mistake in terms of equality policies, to return the General Secretariat of Equality, however, to the Ministry of Home Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u11	Madam Minister, Mrs Syrégla, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u12	First of all, public dialogue and, in particular, parliamentarians must have three basic features, be essential, be honest, be productive, and clearly there must be an appropriate conclusion that facilitates the promotion of appropriate policies. All this time you tell us that equality has been reduced in the country, and we have proved you through the Committee on Equality of Parliament that the very opposite has happened. I, once again, want to make it clear that regardless of political conflicts, I personally believe that we all agree that measures for gender equality must be implemented to the maximum extent, and this design should be based on scientific data, it should be based on international experience and also on domestic reality, just as the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has done. You tell us that equality has declined, entering the portfolio and under the umbrella of demographic policy. But you have not told us what actions have been downgraded, because so far there have been too many things in this area and they have been done on all the five main objectives set by the European Commission's strategic plan for equality. You told us that equality has left the Ministry of Interior, that there will no longer be PPC and PPC. I inform you that on SYRIZA there were twenty-seven LEVELs over a total of three hundred and twenty-eight municipalities, half of which were created by the previous law, except for 4604. At the moment, although equality is not at the Ministry of the Interior, there are two hundred and fifty-nine and, indeed, at a time when there was the great problem in their recommendation to the health crisis. You tell us that there are stereotypical roles within the family and that by subjecting equality to the Ministry of Labour and harmonizing with family policy, we are going back. When equality was at the Ministry of the Interior with the urban and municipal situation, what was it doing? Then that's where we went back when there was equality and city status? In other words, right now as a Qualified Opposition, you tell us that family and demographic are not about equality, but about the urban and municipal situation. I did not make it out of my mind, took it out of the conclusion of the Intergroup Committee of Parliament, and that is something you know and have read. Demographic policy, family policy and gender equality are inextricably linked and are therefore more effective and integrated when planned, implemented and monitored by the same body. The cross-party report clearly points out that with countries such as Scandinavian, such as Sweden, Denmark, Finland, where there is a high commitment to gender equality and women's participation in the public sphere, they also had positive demographic data. You tell us that in no other country has anything to do with the family. In Germany, gender equality is the responsibility of the Ministry for the Family. It is therefore undeniable that, in the current shape, gender equality policies are neither degraded nor contradicted by the respective policies of European countries, at least those which have had positive effects on equality issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I am sorry, but what you have answered here today was not in my question. I guess someone else put them on you as matters, but not me here today. I didn't talk about either TIPS and PASS or the rest of the information you mentioned. The criticism we are making to you - and to take it from the outset - starts from moving equality policies from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Home Affairs, which is in fact a change of priorities in itself, is a structural change that changes the state body's position on equality in the system of the entire state mechanism and restricts the object to a ministry, and it should be of a cross-sectoral nature. You're going to say: can't the Ministry of Labour apply cross-sectorality? It could, of course, but it's not on your priorities. You said that from the beginning, from the first day you took over. You want to propose the topic of work. But you haven't done that either. The ILO 19th International Labour Convention on Violence and Harassment at Work expects to be ratified by the summer of 2019 when you took it and bring it now - you say that you are bringing it, because you have not yet brought it - after a SYRIZA question on this issue. What does that mean, Minister? That even on the field you chose to play you have failed completely. Neither labour nor cross-sectorality for gender equality and to provide you with proof: the abolition of the theme week, which had issues of the elimination of racial stereotypes or of sexual discipline. Have you asked about its abolition by the Minister of Labour? What was your position? To dismantle? From Mr. Ausgakis you asked about the abolition of the gender quota on the boards of sports clubs? What was your answer? That the gender quota is enough for the candidates? After the issue of Bekatouros that opened, do you insist on this decision, or do you understand the importance of the dismantling device? By the Minister of Home Affairs, did you ask about the reduction of the gender quota in the self-government elections from 40% to 30%? From the Minister of Civil Protection, have you asked about the investigation conducted by the Ministry of Civil Protection on the racial and domestic violence? Did you ask to point him out as a competent State research body on equality issues in the JRC or not, or did you end up snatching the competent body, the JRC, and assigning the investigation to individuals, who were, by the way, particularly problematic as an investigation? For the Recovery Fund, in addition to the training programmes you have included, it is an opportunity to get huge funding to expand the network of structures to combat racial violence. Will you do it? We're asking specific questions. Finally, the event for the demographic you invoke, have you read it? If you had read this, Minister, you would see that demographic policy on the basis of a finding - but also generally accepted - has something to do with policies on the quality of life of men and women and the expectancy of survival, migration - both internal and external - and reproduction. Three factors, then. Which one of them is in your jurisdiction? To understand what I'm saying, Sweden, which you often refer to as an example, has improved its demographics, mainly through the integration of migrants. He's not in your department. She's at Ms. Buddhism's, and we have a lot of wonder to see how she handles it. Also, the opposition to immigration from abroad again is not in your Ministry. Finally, to finish with this demographic caramel, the conclusion on page 93 - look at it - writes: "Demographic policy must not be matched by family policy and planning." So here you're foul. I will conclude, Mr President, with a proposal to the Minister: the next time you send a letter to EIGE and the other international bodies that you are working with to inform them of your actions, do not forget to inform them of the change of the General Secretariat of Equality to the Secretariat for Population Policy and Gender Equality and the name of your Ministry which does not even include the word equality. I would also suggest to you when you inform them of legislation that your Government is doing - to get congratulations, as you say - to send them the ones that you are abolishing to bring yours! We have a long question to see if they're going to tell you how congratulating you are. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u15	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u16	First of all, I find that you are uninformed, because on the EIG's website this change has already been passed, and you should see it, because we are a Demographic Policy, Family Policy and Gender Equality, as far as the General Secretariat is concerned. I guess you're not up-to-date. You talked again about a change in the interior ministry. You're not at the Interior Ministry right now. If I remember well, you're a justice department. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u17	We don't rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u18	It doesn't matter. But as a structure you're at the Justice Department. So what are you telling us? You tell us he has to go back to the Ministry of Home Affairs, but you as SYRIZA and you as a department are at the Ministry of Justice on equality issues. You spoke of structural changes and horizontal policies. Horizontal policies must be in cooperation with all ministries. And we did have cooperation with the Citizen's Protection because that is what we have to do, because that is what Law 4531/2018 tells us, as does No4604/2019. These are the real horizontal policies. Research should be carried out by all ministries. You said about the Ministry of Sports. We are already in cooperation with the Ministry of Sports and we will proceed in cooperation with the Olympic Association on issues relating to violence and harassment in the field of sport and society in general. We have moved on to the establishment of the National Gender Equality Council. You've never done it. The National Gender Equality Council has already met twice and the next national action plan has been consulted. We've moved, as I told you, into two hundred and fifty-nine ETA configurations and you had only twenty-seven. You told us about women's unemployment. Actions shall be implemented. For the first time, in the advisory centres and in cooperation with the OAED, abused women who are unemployed will precede both work and entrepreneurship programmes. We proceeded with the 'SHARE' programme for the pilot implementation of the equality mark in enterprises. We have ensured the extension, although we have found no - but no organisation - on it, until 2023 from the European Social Fund for the whole network of structures. And that's for the first time, it's been six months ago. No employee and no employee remained unpaid and unpaid, while eight months were unpaid on SYRIZA. Throughout the pandemic, the structures continued to operate and to respond perfectly to the needs of the women who served. We have made partnerships, both with the private sector and with other public bodies, with civil society organisations. On the substance, there was a special information and awareness plan, for the first time there was such a great campaign. The fact that women have begun and are talking about these issues at the moment means that there are still ears in this period. The fact that the 'Me Too' has started in our country means that there are also the socio-political conditions that these women contribute to speaking. Particular attention has been paid to women refugees and immigrants - victims of violence. Information brochures on network restrictive measures and services were translated into mainly spoken languages of women-refugees. The above actions have been evaluated as good practices in dealing with racial violence during the pandemic period, and for the first time Greece has been included in the ten Member States of the European Union with good practices by EIGE. There was even explicit reference to the work of Greece and the protection of women - refugees and immigrants along with Finland and Portugal. Also, our country is part of the 50 three countries with good practices from the UN. I would like to inform you that you can read Mr Koutres' report on this. Greece has received congratulations from the European Institute for Gender Equality for both legislations and Law 4706/2020 and for Law 4276/2020. The OECD's comments on the work of the Secretariat-General with special reference to legislation were also positive. The fact that equality policies are in the right direction is also apparent from the change in conscience and the culture of women and men. Therefore, the real data and data - because we have no ideological behaviour and we are not talking in general and are not talking vaguely about reducing equality policies in the country, without in practice proving it - are seen by people's daily lives. I deliberately chose not to follow his perverted "we or you" and not to raise such a serious issue in ideas at the heart of a party controversy and that is what I tried to do in my protagonism. I have submitted to the limited time provided for by the procedure concrete data, and indeed the positive assessment by the international organisations. You didn't, unfortunately. Nevertheless, I call on you personally and all those who want to support this effort, and I tell you that I am prepared to discuss and adopt concrete and realistic proposals from each and every one, but without ideological claws.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. In the next five topical questions, the Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. We are entering the fourth with number 394/8-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Halkidiki rusty: The Government has frozen the implementation of the decision of the Council of State for Metallurgy for two years". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with the signature of the new contract you really manage the impossible. In addition to the fact that the issue in Skouria was to compensate the company for the public, precisely because, with its own fault, with a commitment to a technology that was not available to obtain environmental licensing - that is to say, to deceive us in practice - we have come to reject this technology officially by the Council of State today. What are you doing? Instead of asking for compensation, instead of asking the mining company in Skouria to stop the project, to become environmental restoration, you are bringing a contract that allows it to go without metallurgy even for two years. until it is decided, propose a metallurgy lesson. But you know - you know very well - mining revenues by themselves are nonexistent for the public. In reply to your Ministry in an application for documents that I made between 2013 and 2017, while there was so much damage in that place, from neighboring mining to Olympiads, all the revenues received by the State was EUR 1 million for an extraction that does so much damage to the fight for climate change, so much damage to local economies, so much damage to the environment, so much damage in every respect. I want to ask you some basic questions. You yourself, Mr Skreka, requested in September 2018 here from Step to the then government the verticalization and progress, to speed up the verticalization of production. Where is this verticalization of the contract that you signed? What will be the revenue for the Greek State without verticalisation? All this damage for what reason, Mr Skreka, in this untouchable, primitive forest, in the lives of people with the toxic dust cloud that will be dispersed at least thirty kilometers from the Skouria zone, in the Ierissos fishing field, in the main place of production of honey, pine melon in Greece, in PDO products, in the tourism that has collapsed? Tell us, in 2013-2014 how did you repay with 1 million the cost already incurred in this region? I'm not only talking about tourism, but also about leaks of contaminated arsenic discharges on the beaches, etc. I will respect the time and continue after the other questions, such as how the Red Vulture grows by 30% without, it seems, a new environmental impact study.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr Colleagues, your question is about 'Halkidiki rust: the Government has frozen the implementation of the decision of the Council of State on metallurgy for two years'. This is where you are trying to give up on us for what reason? That today no metallurgy factory is being built in Skouria, Halkidiki, and specifically in the Mandem Lakkos area. My question is this: do you want to build the metallurgy plant or do you not want to? You have to decide. Why, on the one hand, you are abdicating us why the proper method of using minerals has not been or has not been found, and on the other, you say that this activity is causing enormous damage. You have to decide what you want. You want everything to stop? Do you want to stop the activities? Losing people's jobs? Lost local society's revenues? Losing the characteristics of the local economy, which have been shaped not for hundreds, but for millennia, why do you know that such activity has existed since ancient times, that is, the exploitation of minerals, in this region? What do you want? Decide to be able to have a serious conversation. I will tell you that we want to use Greece's mineral wealth in terms of sustainability, protecting the environment and giving high-paid jobs to Greek citizens, who are struggling today to have a stable and decent income and to be able to sustain their families. That is exactly what we are achieving with the agreement, which we have concluded with this company, the concession company. So there was an agreement that we received, which provided for some revenue for the State. In particular, the State intended to have revenues of EUR 375 million. We have changed that, and so for the time of the concession, the state will have direct revenues of more than EUR 1.2 billion. The jobs increase, more than doubled. We will have over two, and a half thousand permanent jobs, irrespective of the temporary jobs created during construction. We will have revenues and rewards for local society. We'll have a lot of money for families working for these activities. In this way we support local society, instead of emigrating Greeks abroad or other regions of Greece, trying to find a job. They will be able to stay in their homes, in their villages and enjoy a decent income, doing a decent job. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This does not mean that we cannot have tourist development at the same time. See what's going on on the island of Milos. On the island of Milos we have a wide mining activity and an open-ended type. But, today, you know very well how much tourism has developed in Milos, except for the krone period. The tourist product, provided by the employees, by the professionals in Milos, is of high added value. We attract high-income tourists. You see, however, that even though we have a mining activity for many years and decades, we also have a scary development of the tourist product and, indeed, a 'accurate' one - to say that, in importing tourist products. It doesn't mean one activity destroys another. We seek balanced development in terms of the sustainability of economic sectors in the regions. And that's what we're gonna do. The next thing I have to say in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u23	Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are a Minister who should take the lead - this is your job - in the fight against the climate and environmental crisis in Greece. You want to tell me that we have destroyed an ancient forest of leafy trees, we are going to dig a pit with a diameter of one kilometre and a depth of twenty meters, we are going to puke all this mountain and the wider area by pulling the water with nine drillings of up to a hundred and fifty meters under the sea, for the revenue you mentioned to us? You spoke of 375 million euros throughout the year. One million euros in five years the Olympiad gave us next door, the same company! The fact that you in the new contract that we haven't seen yet...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Arseni, put your mask on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Mr. President. I was just told the other time they weren't listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u27	You must wear the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u28	Very good, no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u29	And the Minister at once too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u30	Can I speak from Stepma?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u31	Not the Stepma, but that's where you're not bothering yourself. Is there a special reason? Anyone can invoke a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u32	No, I'm saying it because last time I wasn't listening. So I continue by saying that last time the previous Minister brought us information on the poor revenues. You also mentioned that mining has been taking place since ancient times. These ancient squirrels you mentioned are the ones that will be destroyed to make the mining. But do you want to go to the essence of the matter? The only news you bring with this contract is that the company has nothing to do with the metallurgy that would bring you any public revenue. And yes, I am against mining in Skouria. But you are unequivocally promoting an mining that at the same time destroys the environment, public health, the local economy and now you say to us "It's okay. Let us not give us public revenue.' That is what your decision on metallurgy means: Resign public revenue. After resigning from public revenue, do you bring additional clauses against the State for any delay in the projects, delaying what? Like the one we had recently, because the company made a commitment and on that basis took the environmental license, that it would make a metallurgy with the flash smelting, which was inapplicable? Will the State pay for such commitments? Where is the company's compensation to the State for the failure to implement its own commitments so far? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The new contract you signed is a breach of duty. The public interest is being violated, so if we ask you to do something, it is to make it public first, so that we can all examine it. In Kokkinolakka, this hazardous waste disposal site - which, as Mr Papazachos says, is on a seismic breach and is over the head of the Great Panagia, a town - increases its capacity by 30%. Tell us what your excuse is when it's already such a problematic task. Will all these projects be done with new GDP or will you be afraid of the consultation process and will you try illegally simply to amend this current decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u33	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u34	This is crucial, because the current GDP is the prerequisite for metallurgy, for verticalisation, for two years ago by another government. Be clear. Are we talking here about a service of interest or a job? From your experience, it seems that jobs are not what you are interested in. What is seen here is that at all costs - as Mr Samaras said - this investment will go ahead in destroying the local environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr Colleagues, I regret the way in which you make your point of view, in the absence of any arguments, of course. You say great words, unjust words and I would say bad words, the way you are trying to justify your own opinion. Because it is obvious that you have a different view of what our Government does. In the end, of course, you did not answer explicitly and explicitly whether you would like the investment to continue, or whether you would like it to be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u37	That's very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u38	Do you want the investment closed? If you want to close, you want the thousands of about six hundred workers who work there today and live their families. Because the Olympiad, to which you refer, is an activity that existed before, there is and will exist. It has nothing to do with the use of Skouria.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u39	For the Squirrels...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u40	Don't interrupt, Mr. Arseny! You've heard. You've taken twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u41	So since you say very clearly that you want jobs to be closed today, you want the factory to be shut down, you want these activities to be shut down and people to lose their jobs, we say something else and I don't think that's a critic. On the contrary, I think that is the right thing to do, and that is why I am defending it in every way. Of course, the contract that we signed with the concession company will come to Parliament. You will have the opportunity to read it, you will have the opportunity to judge it and you will be able to vote for it or vote against it. It's self-evident. You should know that. You are a Member of the Greek Parliament. You can't come here and say what goes through your mind without having any basis for truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u42	When will he come?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u43	I'll let you know next time. We hope that by the beginning of March he will have come for discussion. That, to put things in place. From that point of view, the creation of an activity with regard to metallurgy by a specific method was indeed envisaged from the previous contract. We give the opportunity to do this even more specifically, even more appropriately and force the company within 24 months to testify to its plan, which we will assess for metallurgy. Of course we want to increase the added value of the extracted minerals in our country, and so the local society, as well as the national economy and the entire Greek society, enjoy the maximum. You are also asking if it is a prerequisite for the new environmental approval decision. Of course we will update the environmental decision. I must tell you that, in order to protect the environment better, a system of four hundred stations will be applied to the environment in order to be able to observe the changes that may occur and to intervene in time so that there is not just any disaster, but rather that the environment be not affected by human activities. You said a primitive forest was being destroyed. How many thousands of acres make up the forest? Do you know that? How many acres will be used for this activity? Do you know that? How many acres will be used? Less than a thousand acres will be used, i.e. less than a large agricultural crop in a range of tens of thousands of acres. Therefore, a minimum percentage, which will then be restored. It won't stay like this forever. He'll be restored. These are provided for in the environmental impact study and in the approval of the environmental conditions that we have given. You also ask what the damage would be to the State from the non-rejection of the previous contract. Of course, losing more than a thousand five hundred workers is huge damage. Tell me something that can replace such high-paid jobs. I repeat, always in terms that protect the environment and maintain the country's mineral wealth in such a situation that future generations can also exploit and accept the benefits. But the damage is very great when such an activity closes, when such an activity stops to exist, when it leaves back wounds that have not been restored, when it leaves behind empty seals that were leaking from life and from workers and then they stay empty. These people are forced to emigrate to other European countries that make use of their mineral wealth in terms of sustainability. You also ask why the capacity of the landfill site, HYTEA, is increasing by three million cubic metres. These are some publications that have no basis for truth. The capacity is not increased. The so-called dry-disposal dry stacking used will barely reduce the volume needed to store the much better managed waste in the process. So we have a contract that gives more jobs than the previous one, more revenue for the national economy than the previous one, more compensation for the local society than the previous one, better waste management technology and better method, better environmental impact monitoring system. I think it is a very good contract and I invite you to see it again with maturity and objectivity and to support it when it comes to the Greek Parliament to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u44	The fourth question under number 395/8-2-2021 will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The government is unfair to small PV investors rather than to strengthen them." Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes, with the request that we approach the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The same applies to the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, works like mining are the works of the Trump era. The arguments we are hearing, namely that the damage will be small for the forest, are the same as the companies repeat in the Amazon. Exactly the same. As for how there will be impact monitoring, even the nearly 2 million fines for all the infringements observed by environmental inspectors were never paid by the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr Arseni, you need to know that we are discussing another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u47	Of course, of course. It's about the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u48	No, it can't be, because the Minister will do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u49	So let's go to the photovoltaics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u50	The first question is over. There's the protology, the second and the third. I close your time and be consistent with the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have another study, this time by the European Commission from JRC, the European Commission Research Centre, which highlights Greece as the country that has the greatest benefit as an income supplement for households and as a contribution to tackling climate change from the installation of roof photovoltaics. This has not only been taken into account by your own government, but now we see that there is persecution of people who dared to put photovoltaics on their roofs. I would remind you that beyond 20% -40% of the cuts made in 2014 to those who had invested photovoltaics on the rooftops, you have cut extra horizontally - and to them - 6% more, as much as you cut off on the very large construction of the RES. We're talking about systems under 10 megawatts. Now, you come and cut into these forty - eight thousand households all the time. It is not allowed to install photovoltaics more than 6 kilowatts - why is it? - and you do not support what would allow us today to stop any plundering of nature through the installation of winds in NATURA areas and other sensitive ecosystems, namely the installation of photovoltaics on all roofs of Greek homes, covering 30% of energy consumption from them, giving money to winter houses, seeing their incomes collapse, strengthening their incomes. Of course, we would not benefit the five construction projects of the RES. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. After all, the questions are written, you have them in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the expressed will of the government and the Prime Minister themselves to move towards a rapid carbonisation of the Greek economy has proved to be through the strategy that we have followed. We will move on to a much faster degrease, a much faster carbonisation than other countries, the western countries of Europe. For example, you know very well that Germany is talking about shutting down the last coal burner for electricity production in 2035 when we have decided that this would happen in 2028. Of course, in order to achieve this, we have also made progress in a strategic plan, making use of resources from the Fair Transition Fund, so that we can change, rebuild production potential in these local areas, in these local societies and economies, which will be affected by this rapid change in the production model. The fact is that a key axis of economic development in these areas was the use of lignite to produce electricity. So, as we have decided by 2028 to close these polluting fugars, which in many cases cause the causes of climate change, namely an increase in global warming, to the extent that they contribute, there is a need for some serious intervention to replace the jobs that will be lost. So, Mr President, our Government and the Prime Minister have shown themselves that they have given priority to protecting the environment, and in this way we are protecting not only the environment, but ultimately the next generations of the Greeks, in which we must in no way leave this problem, these tough dilemmas to leave them unanswered and to leave them exposed to these consequences, when they may not be able to deal with them after ten, after twenty, after thirty years. That is why the Greek society and the Greek political system prove through this decision that it can actually take the lead. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy have demonstrated throughout Europe and around the world that they can be protagonists in environmental protection, reducing the causes of climate change and demonstrating that there can be sustainable and strong economic growth, having taken these difficult measures. As far as photovoltaics are concerned, I would like to say, Mr President, that we will support renewable energy sources, the development of RES in the country, the exploitation of this huge potential that the country has through the sun, through the wind, through the water, so that we can move on to this transition that I have described to you. We will naturally do so by supporting both energy democracy and the ability of the ordinary Greek citizen to participate in this huge energy transition, which is, in this world of energy change, the change in the energy mix in our country. Of course, there are also roof photovoltaics in there, which I have proved in the past, and it will appear from now on that we will support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u54	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, now we're talking about roof photovoltaics and you're beginning to talk to me about liberation. I understand that this is the only thing you have to show your environmental policy that deprivation is without decontamination, without any plan for the next day, which leaves a social gap in western Macedonia. I support deprivation. Merra25 supports liberation, but bring in a plan for a fair transition. Right now, we don't have a real plan. But now we're going to our debate. You say that you support photovoltaics when you do everything, from bill to bill, to deprive you of any priority the energy communities had. The photovoltaics on the roof: Tell us, really, why right now, with the motives you give, they put photovoltaics on the roof? The numbers are sweeping. You referred to Germany. Germany started without sunlight, putting photovoltaics on every roof, on every roof. You are doing everything you can to discourage citizens from doing what would enable us to tackle climate change effectively. We are protecting the protected areas, in other words without setting up, as you do, wind and photovoltaics there and going to the man-made environment and putting photovoltaics and income on the roofs of people, goes to the citizens, goes to the households. What are you doing? Reinforce agricultural photovoltaics, over 100 KW parks on the agricultural land, not self-consumption, but to produce as investors, which again does damage, instead of going to reinforce photovoltaics on the roof at least on the same criteria. Do you know what a person is doing with photovoltaics in a rural area that binds this area, takes it out of our ability to produce food? It sells all the electricity it generates in PPC, purchases the whole network of the TEDO. Do you know what a man does who has photovoltaics on his roof? He gets what he consumes, he clears it, and the rest gets it free of charge from PPC. Why these discriminations? Why is the punishment on the citizen who puts photovoltaics on his roof? Why do you have negative motives? Why are you now reducing the capacity of installation in the six kilowatt photovoltaics with Feed in the plan? What for? You are constantly persecuting small producers. We call on you to change course, because all you can do is destroy nature by turning all the investments in there, when the installation of wind and photovoltaics in the protected areas leads to the destruction of the very things we want to protect, the last remaining arks of nature, of life, of those we are running to save. That's where you turn the negative effects. Give it a chance, instead of giving it to manufacturers, give it to people, households, to all of us, to all who have a rooftop over their heads, a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u57	I repeat that we support in every way the development of renewable energy sources as a basic production of green electricity, which we will use as a national economy and as a Greek society. Let me say that with the ministerial decision, which has already been adopted, the roof turf amounts to EUR 87 per megawatt, when, for example, the rest of the private individuals who install photovoltaics, not on their land, is EUR 63. As far as energy communities and farmers are concerned, this price is EUR 65 per megawatt now. So, here we see an increased turf for PV roofs, which amounts to EUR 25 per megawatt. In other words, more than 35% is the increased price that photovoltaic housing installers will enjoy in relation to other producers in Greece. You also said that the current ministerial decision states that the ceiling, the ceiling on the installation of a photovoltaic roof, is six megawatts. Here I have to tell you that, after we have been working with the institutional representatives of PV housing owners, we are considering this possibility of reaching ten kilowatts of installed power, because we do see that energy needs can be increased and therefore need to install a larger photovoltaic to meet their needs. Let us say that, in terms of self-production, the so-called 'net metering', one is able to install and build a photovoltaic for self-consuming, that is to say, to use it for use in its own consumption - personal consumption of the household or home - it has absolute priority and will continue to have absolute priority, precisely to support the installations of such small photovoltaic parks. So I don't think they come from what you've reported our Government doesn't support PV roof photovoltaics. Instead, it is our Government that supported them, supported them and supported them. This will, of course, also be seen in the next few months with the new ministerial decision that we are going to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u58	We continue with the ninth with the ninth No. 402/8-2-2021 topical question by MP Florina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Suffering expropriations in the Achlada Florina area by the company Lignite Mines of Achlada S.A.". Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have said good about climate change and liberation, but the Green Agreement says that no one should stay behind. Today we have two questions, and I shall start with the issue of the Pearl. It is a village in Florina, where this is the case, Minister: although for many regions and many villages adjacent to mines and lignite deposits decisions have been made for relocations, for compensation, today we see that in Achlada, although life, health, the property of citizens have been announced, forced expropriations have been made, which have not been carried out. Residents, while enduring lignite outside their home - at the moment when we are talking about mines, security distances are not even observed, we are talking about a hundred and fifty meters - have not been compensated and live, at the same time, as we have said, in a harmful environment. I would like to refer to the latest decision of your Ministry of 2020, which approved the environmental conditions for the continuation of the mine, which already amends the previous decision of 2014. You know what he's saying? ‘Personal of the above approvals was the forced expropriation and relocation of the settlements. For this reason, compelling expropriations were declared. This forced expropriation was declared for the costs of the Achilles Mines S.A. For the benefit of the Greek State. We have the peculiarity of being a public mine, but it has been granted to operate a private company and, of course, legally fixed allowances have not been paid. Already since 2011, in an exhibition by the Department of Western Macedonia's TEE, it mentions the need for urgent relocation process. The three settlements have been surrounded by the mines. So I ask you, Minister: do you know that while decisions have been taken to establish a one-off temporary price, but also a one-off decision, the beneficiaries have not yet been compensated? How will the Greek State ensure compensation for the inhabitants of Achala and the rest of the beneficiaries under the declared expropriations? Will the Greek State take over the residents' compensation? Do you know that since the non-existence of the forced expropriations the Greek State is deprived of any property rights? What does the Ministry intend to do with the mining compensation? Will the mines continue to function? Will they close? Is it going to rehabilitate land or relocation of the village? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam President, for the very critical question you have asked, because there are indeed too many Greek citizens in that region who are fighting for the future of the activity, but they also have questions about what is actually happening and what has happened. So let me turn to a retrogression of what has happened, where everyone in it will understand, and those present in the Chamber, but also those who are listening to us, what is really happening. In 2016, by decision of the then Minister for the Environment, an enforced expropriation was declared in favour of the Greek State at the expense of the company Lignite Mines Achlada - is the legal person of private interests who has undertaken to exploit the deposits there - areas of a total area of five hundred and two thousand square meters, within a wider area of eight hundred thousand square meters in the settlement of Lower Achlada, for the needs of exploiting the lignite deposits of the Achlada Lignite Mine. It was indeed a public mine, which existed there and with this decision of the Minister for the Environment, that the forced expropriation was declared so that the use of this lignite mine could continue. On 27 June 2018, the hired company, named ‘Achlada Lignite Mines S.A.’, requested the private areas of a total area of seventy-three thousand square metres. The private investor, to whom the public of that area had been leased to make use of the deposits, therefore asked for some seventy-two thousand square meters. On 17 September 2018, the Medal Inspection Department of the Northern Greece Inspection Body pointed out that the further exploitation of the lignite deposits in the Achlada mine in order to achieve the usual annual production and safe supply of A.Meliti – is the Meliti steam station, on which the lignite mining products are pushed – presupposes the direct access of the holding to the area requested. On 5 July 2019, note the date, is 5 July 2019, election escapades - by a joint Ministerial decision of the Finance and Energy Ministers were ordered, at the expense of the company ‘Achlada S.A.’, private land of a total area of sixty-three thousand square meters. So, what do we have here? We have a public mine, which is leased to a private person, where, in order to be hired, there must be a forced expropriation of land so that the activity can continue. In order to achieve the price of the expropriated areas, this results from a judicial decision. There was such a judicial decision, which fixed the provisional price for the expropriated areas, but which was not paid to date. And why wasn't he paid to this day? In the meantime, the private investor, who had hired this area from the public sector, asked - and was designated by a joint ministerial decision - for the areas which are another way to continue to exploit where the price of the order is much lower than the temporary price of expropriation laid down by the court. At the moment, the final decision of the court, to which the lessee has appealed, is pending for the final price. That's the situation so far. On the eve of the elections, on 5 July 2019, on the SYRIZA government, a specific order was set at a much lower price than the temporary price of expropriation set by the court. At the moment, of course, we are waiting for the final price - I repeat - from a new court to decide. The rest of it will be in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u63	Minister, I am pleased, first of all, because I find you informed, but half of all, because the expropriations have already begun since 2009, since 2011, while they were rural areas, since 2013 and remain unpaid. Also, you don't answer me what you're going to do. That was my question. Whether there have been uncertainties or delays by the previous government, it does not relieve you of the duty - and all of us - of these people there to compensate them. Today you must make a commitment to this. Questions have been made by my fellow Member Florina, in the previous term, for the partial or total relocation of the village. We are talking about a village enclosed, which extends the mines and approaches it. I invite you to come see how people live there. For so many years they have supported this lignite monoculture and today they cannot get their money from compensation. We must resolve this, Minister. That's the big one. Not to mention again the decision made by you and how it insists again and says that'mining must go ahead and the necessary steps must be completed, as provided for in the existing legislation...'. That is what your 2020 decision says. We are now saying: what guarantee, when no one has been compensated to date? They're not just the ones you're talking about. I told you there's a lot of expropriations. You also need to see whether it is viable to fill out the forced expropriations at the expense of the private company and what the responsibility is in the end of the Greek State when its decisions are not complied with - I mentioned them - or there are no judicial decisions. But I'll tell you about the company. Obviously we realise that, on the one hand, the COVID pandemic and, on the other, the announcement of forward lignitisation and the unclear context and environment that it describes can cause serious problems, which must also be solved with regard to the company. Now, however, more than ever, compensation must be given to people. What if the mine closes or even if it stays open and the individual invokes a weakness of payment? These are the crucial questions. Finally, citizens cannot pay for the delays and bad contracts that the country has occasionally signed. It is a major issue for people to be compensated. I think we've figured that out. This issue needs to be solved immediately, because time is running. Another issue which concerns the village - people want to know - is the clarification of the future of the mines. There are several proposals. In the event that the mines continue to function for off-electric uses - there are proposals such as the Athens Academy and OTE, etc. - then it's a one-way relocation of the village. The village sits on lignite deposits. In any case, the future of the village must be ensured. I believe that a favoured state should avoid and prevent residents from resorting to justice to claim annoying rights. The European Union will also not leave such an issue unjust, an insult to public health and the environment. Let us not escape the issue of national control. The state, among other things, also has the responsibility of protecting citizens from legitimate and unfair private sector practices or weaknesses. After all, the completion of this openness also relates to the property regime of the territories. So the public will lose land. Now they have opened up all planning levels in the region such as regional, spatial, specific urban plans, territorial plans. These need to be taken and captured in there, as well as land restoration from the Recovery and Resilience Fund, the Fair Transfer Fund for the 2021-2027 Programming Period. I also wanted to ask whether the 300 million described for rehabilitation of the territory of the Recovery Fund will also include these territories. But at any rate, Minister, you must give us an answer, to listen to the village, which is anxiously asking what is going to happen with compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u64	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u65	As you can see, after what I have said to you in my prototype, for the compensation to be paid, there must be a unit price for compensation. So we're waiting for definitive unit values to be determined. The court has been designated in May 2021. The person responsible for paying the compensation shall be the concessionaire, in this case the lessee, i.e. the company ‘Achlada S.A.’. Therefore, once this judicial procedure has been completed and the final unit, which will be the final compensation price for the expropriated areas, will be required by the concessionaire, the lessee, to compensate those whose property, the land, has been used or sought to continue the activity. From there, of course, I told you that we, as a government, have drawn up a truly coherent and comprehensive development and change plan for the local productive model of western Macedonia, namely the lignite municipalities, including the Megalopolitan in the Peloponnese, which have been brought to energy not only in our country, but at the level of Europe. The seasons change, they close the polluting factories that made use of lignite. People who have been working there so far will have to find another way to have an equivalent decent income so that they can stay in their homes and live their families. That's what we're planning. Here we are discussing and promoting over EUR 5 billion over the next five to six years, which will be used precisely to support local societies. Here we invite you, together, to take part, to see the actions and interventions that we are planning for, and if you have any suggestion that we are open, so that we can reach the best plan, in the best way, to deal with the effects of this so-called liberation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fifth, under number 401/8-2-2021, a timely question from the Second Cycle of SYRIZA MP Florina - the Progressive Alliance of Mrs Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Registering of a local community of Valtoneres of the Municipality of Amyntaios in the Regional Unity of Florinas due to mining activities for electricity production". Mrs. Perka has the floor for her prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we continue with the wounds of the region, which are still open and no longer going. We are talking about the relocation of the settlement of the local community of Valtonere. So while several relocations have been approved, while we were starting as government - here you cannot tell me - and we had relocated the Anargyrs, the Valtonera remain and wait for your own initiatives, but quickly, immediately. Because, you know what's happened? It is villages that gave light to all of Greece and erase the villages. Since 2008 there have been reports of dangerous building with recommendations to leave the village and demolition of buildings. But then the great landslide at the mine of PPC in Amyntheos in 2017, the situation deteriorated. The breaches have grown and separated the village in the middle. Over the village there is a huge rift, in the middle of the village, in the center of the village, also a very large rift and two more - three around the village. Many of the houses of the two hundred inhabitants are unsuitable for dwelling. Now, however, recently, in January 2021 new landslides were caused. There's a warehouse down, and we're lucky we don't have a victim. The residents then consider PPC to be responsible for subsidences, cracks in lignite extraction. PPC does not accept it and says it's the drilling. This situation led to the residents appealing against PPC. But we also have the experts. The professor of Dynamics and Applied Geology Mr. Lekkas suggested an immediate evacuation of houses located on the red crack - they are seventy meters in a central section, i.e. about one third of the village - for security reasons. It also pointed out the possibility of a rapid development of the burglary effect either following intense rainfall or a change in the level of the watercourse. So, in view of the above, I ask you: does the government plan to relocate the entire local community of Valtonners or only the homes located in the red zone? You haven't made a decision on the red zone either. But I would like to put this: priority can be given to the red zone, but the whole village must be relocated, because we cannot break villages, we said they have been erased. It's a question of social cohesion. Of course, we also want the timetable for action and the goal of integration. Of course, we are asking whether the relocation of the local community of the Balkans will take place in the model of the Anargyrs, as the SYRIZA government did, and whether these relocations of settlements will be integrated due to lignite activity in funding from European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention the following. Firstly, the settlement was built, as you know very well - it is called the local community of Valtonirian Municipality of Amyntaios - in an area of dried swamp. The distance of the excavations of the Amyntai Field Mines from the border of the Valtoneros settlement is about one thousand eight hundred meters, i.e. about two kilometers, above the forecast limit of two hundred fifty meters. Since 2008 there have been reports of dangerous building, as we say, by the Regional Planning and Spatial Planning Department of the Florina Regional Unit in houses - in the local community of Fanos there have been twelve self-consciousnesses and a Valtoneron seven self-consciousnesses - on which the demolition of six buildings - warehouses and houses - and the demolition of a building had been decided. There is an exhibition by the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki entitled "Research for the occurrence of cracks in the local community of Valtoneres of the Municipality of Amynteios in the Regional Unit Florina" in March 2015. In 2018, at the request of the Municipality of Amyntaio, a technical autopsy was carried out on the spot by members of the then EGME – today EAGME – and a report titled "Technogeological recognition of landscape phenomena in the local communities of Valtonera, Pedinos, Rodona and Fan of the Municipality of Amyntaio was produced. " The report notes, firstly, that there are territorial burglaries. Secondly, the main burglary crosses the village across from a tip to a tip with an address west - southwest and also from north to east. It's visible about 1,100 meters long. The action of this breach has caused damage to buildings - houses, warehouses and fences - as well as to infrastructures with mainly shearing cracks. burglaries have also been observed outside the settlement, south of the village and the mine, as well as north of it. What is the general conclusion? The general conclusion, as you will probably already know, is that the territorial burglaries are due to damping of the underlying soil materials, due to overexploitation of the aquifer by anthropogenic activities, coupled with the presence of lateral lithological changes of length, according to the Study of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. What does the study say specifically? It says that we have overexploitation of groundwater, which, together with lateral pressures, have created these retreats in the ground, the cracks which have then, unfortunately, caused these phenomena in the upholstery, in the building stock, which has been built, has developed on the surface of these soils. It has therefore been decided that we should monitor the development of phenomena and cracks. What has the Ministry of the Environment done? The Mining Inspection Department of Northern Greece, for security reasons, requested PPC with two documents in June 2020 and October 2020 to proceed with the forced expropriation of a 250m perimeter zone from the mine excavations. This area includes the territorial area between Valtonea mines and settlements. PPC brought an action before the Minister for the Environment and Energy, which was rejected. Also, EAGME, the former EGME, held a working meeting on 21-1-2021, that is, three weeks ago, with managers of PPC's Lignite Production Support Operations in order to establish a project framework for research and monitoring the possible development of phenomena and the closure process of the lignite mine in the context of ligniteification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u71	Minister, I have not been satisfied with the answers and the written answer. Because there we have two documents from PPC and the Inspection Body of Northern Greece and it seems you are hiding. It is neither inappropriate nor inactivity here, because you will be accountable for some of these actions. We said there was an accident. The fact that we don't have a victim is a matter of luck. Well, as far as Mr Tassis is concerned, I consider his answer, which, in a wooden, technocratic, said at the heart, is the company's profit and not the company's corporate responsibility towards these villages of western Macedonia and its inhabitants. Politics cannot only be done on the basis of cost-benefit criteria. It has social, labour, economic criteria. We are talking about public policies, in any case, and not private companies, as PPC now appears. As for correspondence, and you said it about distance, of course, the two hundred and fifty meters are a safe distance, which - as we have seen - is not being observed in Achlada. But here's an accident. It's falling apart. There is a phenomenon in progress. I've read all the studies. They describe exactly how the phenomenon develops. It's dangerous, that is. It's not just Mr. Lekkas and the Laboratory of Dynamic Tension and Applied Geology. It's S.H.I.E.L.D., it's IGME, Souly, Chapanou, etc. Here I would like to remind you that Mrs Bakoyannis had asked a question in 2018 and pointed out that, according to scientific studies, landslides can be repeated at any time and that this fact makes the evacuation of the area urgent. Indeed, he said that immediate measures should be taken and 'why the scientific opinion of Professor Lekka is ignored?' So the government of the best - I will say a little ironically, but it is once again confirmed - does not take into account the experts and the public interest. I'm afraid you'll literally leave behind debris. But, in this case, political inertia is tragic. It will be difficult if we mourn victims. A modern European state must take account of experts' recommendations in all areas of policy. I would remind you that the SYRIZA Government, with the burden of budgetary commitments, with the institutions, has carried out an urgent examination of landslides and their consequences with the EGM, as well as an assessment of the risk of construction. So then the five villages of Anargyroi, Valtonera, Pedino, Rhodes, Fanto, the Municipality of Amyntaios and at the same time the Region declared them in an emergency. In any case, the Anargys managed to relocate them. That's the end of that story. At the Valtonera, unfortunately, we had taken some action. It's you to carry on. You have been government since July 2019 and indeed, people in the region want to know - and they need to know - what you will do with the Valtonnera, concrete actions with a timetable and a source of funding. What residents are experiencing is unbelievable. As long as I can tell you that they can't enter "Security", because there's a lot of talk going on. Because of the cracks in the area, they're cut off from the Programme, they're not subsidized. There is no doubt, therefore, that for reasons of wider public interest and the protection of the health, economic activity and life of the inhabitants, the relocation of the community to the model of the Anargyrs must immediately proceed. Minister, especially since this debate and these questions, for what happens from now on and put at risk life of our fellow people, one cannot invoke ignorance. There is a political and personal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u73	My colleague, if we do what you did to the Anargyns, we will do nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u74	Do something better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u75	Because, as you know, there is still no relocation of the Anargys.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u76	But it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u77	So no one has been relocated for four and a half to five years. Just to put things on the right basis. From that point on, I hear what you're saying. Of course, it is a phenomenon that is evolving and there are Greek citizens who live there and who - quite rightly you said - supported this activity, which - like many other local communities - helped to illuminate the whole of Greece, in order to carry out the Greek miracle for many decades as regards the development and improvement of the standard of living of Greek society. Of course, we will be very happy to be at your disposal to discuss what action we need to take, what interventions and, of course, how to finance. As I said to you, we have designed - through the Recovery Fund, through the Fair Transfer Fund and through the additional strengthening of support from the NRP, from the Rural Development Programme - which enable us to support this region, these municipalities. These municipalities - as I have said - will accept the impact - of this change in production patterns, of removal from the activity of mining and of exploiting lignite for electricity production. Their transition to new activities and new economic sectors, which must be developed, such as the tourism sector, such as agri-foodstuffs, such as bringing and attracting facilities and new investments, industrial investments, both from the Greek perimeter and from the global investment community, will give more and stronger incentives so that they can go there. In this way, we seek at the end of the day, not only to have unfavourable consequences, but, on the contrary, to experience and enjoy the benefits of changing a productive model from the past decades, to a productive model that can provide sustainable, strong development in local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. The twelfth is followed by the twelfth number 397/8-2-2021, the second time question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Minalo and Lyceum term: One hundred seventy-five wind turbines in “NATURA 2000” are threatening natural looting. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, really the mountain mountain plundering arrived both in Mainalo and in the Lyceum. Faced with the installation of the winds in these forests, protected areas and forests within very important monuments of global civilization, such as the monument UNESCO of Epicurios Apollo, the Arcadia Labour Center, the Arcadia Chamber, the Peloponnese Tourism Organisation, the municipal and regional groups of the Peloponnese, natural clubs. On 25 January the Regional Council decided unanimously to continue the establishment of the park. We ask what will happen, thinking of the Prime Minister's statements, when he had gone with Mr. Kachimanis, the Governor of Epirus, to see in the Law of Ioannina another case of the installation of a wind park in a high mountain and said that he would proceed, as Mr. Economou had promised in a timely manner, to ban the placement of wind on these high altitudes. Because the issue is about nature, the first priority for climate change is to protect what is left of nature, save energy, and then change the energy, how we produce. You go get the fourth one, destroying the first one. It's a total reversal of common sense. For all this, we have already received a condemnation of the European Court of Justice for the protection of NATURA and there is already a reasoned opinion on the condemnation of us in the European Court of Justice, because we do not have a proper assessment, because we do not filter these authorisations, and we do not cancel them before they even go into environmental impact assessment. We see that in July 2020 you gave EUR 130,000 from the Green Fund, by direct delegation, for a programme aimed at the European Commission's participatory regular briefing in consultation with the relevant bodies responsible for the progress of the work of the programme, in order to avoid the escalation of the letter of formal notice to an appeal to the European Court of Justice. With a lobby you can't change the sentence. All you can do is change course essential and what we discussed before: Give the money where the natural environment is not destroyed. Leave the ecosystems untouchable. Give people the money to put photovoltaics on their roof. We can become a model country in dealing with climate change, with much more than 50% of the consumption being produced by RES alone, without plundering nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u81	I'm glad you're giving up on what we're not doing. In other words, we do not want the unregulated development of the RES, but we want the development of the RES. We do not want, as you quite rightly said - it was expressed by its own Prime Minister - to destroy all the mountain peaks in the country, but we want to develop wind parks, which will close the figars, which pollute the atmosphere and I think you agree to that. So the brief answer to your question is that we agree that the development of RES should be done with full respect for the natural environment and that is what we are going to do. As you know, a specific spatial framework is already being drawn up for renewable energy sources, which will incorporate exactly all the guidelines from the European Commission, but also all that we want, which we often want as a government and as a state, the Greek Government and the Greek state can be more than what they demand, perhaps also defined by the European cheques. So, Mr Colleague, I will tell you once again. - We want to change the country's energy mix as quickly as possible. We want to deceive the country from the use of fossil fuels whose combustion pollutes the atmosphere with carbon dioxide emissions and we want to introduce much faster, but also a sustainable economic way for the citizens of our country in the energy mix of our country. And that's what we're gonna do. There, of course, we are also seeking energy democracy. We believe that this benefit should eventually be diffused on the basis of Greek society. That is why we will also support the roof photovoltaics, we will also support the energy communities, not those who are destroying the spirit of the legislator, not those who are trying through a wicked way to use the tools we give to achieve energy democracy for a personal benefit far greater than they should have, in breach of - I repeat - the conditions under which we have legislated these predictions as a Parliament of the Greeks. I am not only talking about our own government, but about the previous governments, which in the same spirit and philosophy had introduced these institutions and organisations for the development of renewable energy sources. That is why we are promoting the institutional framework for energy storage, so that we can stabilise the system and actually allow the Greek energy system to be sustainable, stable, safe by using much more RES. That is why we are examining and promoting an institutional framework for the development of offshore - offshore - wind parks, which can also contribute to the energy security and adequacy of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u82	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, you have not answered the questions. Will you respect the opinion of local government? Will you respect the unanimous decision of the regional council? Because we had a case here, for example, for Samothraki, which Mr Economou came on 21 December - recently - and said that because the opinions are negative, the wind will not proceed, and then Mr Amyras says 'we will take into account the opinions, but we will not be bound by them'. And those with your own political leadership. In Andros, the wind is on the way to a 'LIFE' programme - the second LIFE programme - for the spiral eagle, next to a spiral nest. The Ministry's decision was made, by Mr. Diopoulos, a one-faced director's decision, without suggestion, against the recommendation of the relevant departments, to shrink the breeding season by one month, to leave Genaris to continue work. This was also done in the midst of your political leadership. If you really want to talk about energy democracy, go to the winds on roofs and roofs. If you want to talk about network security, go to the winds on the roofs and roofs. Most of the energy is consumed on the ground, smaller is transferred, so that we have smaller losses, smaller network volatility and all that you do with the grant of batteries. Proceed to the most economical way, to the winds on the roofs and rooftops. What they will give to subsidies from the five major construction projects of RES, which go and put them in the most untouched mountains and places, will give them to the Greek households who see their incomes collapse at the moment. I would like you to reply to us what the programme that your Ministry is financing with EUR 130,000 when it says to the objectives of the programme that it will be regularly briefing the European Commission to avoid the escalation of the letter of formal notice to the European Court of Justice on winds entering NATURA, to remind you. I want us to understand exactly what this programme is targeting. I will not go into political details, which I consider to be at the limit of yellowism, avoiding them. I'm actually going to what the program means. If you want to see, too, what is the course of energy democracy in Greece in 2009-2012 forty-eight thousand photovoltaics on the roof, in 2013 four thousand, in 2014-2019 per cent seventy and in the program of settling in 2015-2019 a thousand photovoltaics. This is the far-reaching path of the democracy of energy in Greece. Make sure that you change it, give the direction and the grants in this direction together with a strong "Security Finance" programme. Literally, you are using the European Commission's coronary money to deal with the economic crisis in this direction. You will have a development boom in our country and you will have our country to lead the fight for the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u84	Minister, to give you a discharge, please complete your second-guess. We are tired of you with many timely questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u85	It's a pleasure, Mr. President. I could sit down and answer my fellow Members' questions for hours, because it is in principle very useful and I think that in this way we are giving the information that is needed to the Greek citizens and I thank you very much. Mr President, the ministerial decision on the possibility and definition of a turf for the development of small wind turbines has been issued by my predecessor Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, with the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So, to know what we're saying, every time we meet, I'll tell you that you can't do more in terms of environmental protection, because we just do a lot more than you might ask or perhaps you're thinking. You have to tell us: Do you want wind parks or do you not want to? Do you want wind parks with a plan, by a measure, with the consent of the local society, with a program, map of where to build? Yes! If you want, then, let us complete it and come with us to sit and define the principles that will really govern the new Special Spatial Planning for the RES, which we are now destroying and we will be very happy to take part in this. I would invite you to discuss the preliminary draft, and what we will eventually end up with and bring about some time to discuss it with the other Members of the Greek Parliament. As far as PV roofs are concerned, it's true what you're saying. In Greece they account for about 1%, contributing to the production of about 1% of RES energy. In Germany this could be 1.2%. Greece, of course, has the potential for much greater development of this type of small photovoltaic, and that is what we will do. I told you very well that we are thinking and discussing - and we have not yet decided to do so - even the increase from the limit of six kilowatts of installed power, which is now able to build, so that it will go seven, eight nine and ten kilowatts, perhaps, because we see that these are the needs. As far as small wind turbines are concerned, there is a ministerial decision, there is the turf. If I remember correctly, it exceeds EUR 160 per metaphor produced now in relation to, as you know, the EUR 50.60 of the tariphas enjoyed by the other large wind turbines, of course through competitive procedures. Why are we giving 160 euros and not 60 euros? But to be built. However, this still needs training to be done to the interested, it needs to be motivated - I repeat, you are right - by the state, but also by all of you, by all of us who look at us and expect to set an example. Of course, for all of this, you remember that this government, 15 months ago, enabled farmers to manufacture agricultural photovoltaics for self-production and to make them four times greater than they needed so that 75% of the energy produced would sell it in the system and have an extra income so that they could make the investment, but also remain in their farming. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We see that so far this has not become a common estate and we do not have many who have come to build. So we need to help them. And yes, through the possibility of European tools, the European funds, we will even support the first, so that there can be the necessary incentives and the process can go ahead. Because if the first one does, then the rest follow. Beyond a non-cooperative, I would say, criticism, come together to sit down and plan how we need to change the philosophy of the country and of the citizens and to be able to become society what we want to do, an energy democracy that we want to develop, based on renewable energy sources and on the ability of each of the Greek citizens to participate in this vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the following questions are not being discussed with a consultation of Minister and Member: First, the 15th, with number 399/8-2-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the Hercule of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'When will you finally convene the Social Security Council (SKA) for an opinion on the conclusion of the inclusion of health in the heavy and unhealthy professions submitted since December?'. Secondly, the first with number 382/4-2-2021 topical question by Mr Socrates Vardakis on the second question of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Guide at last to the unemployed'. Also, the following questions are not being discussed, due to a blockade by the MPs: First, the third under number 390/8-2-2021 topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larissa from the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, on the subject: “The problems in the primary Health Care of the Hospital of Larissa”. Secondly, the tenth question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Support of a second chance for lost debt arrangements to the insurance funds'. Thirdly, the second under number 386/8-2-2021 topical question from the MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Sufficient staff shortages in the two hospitals of Argolida’. We move on to the next question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr George Zavvos. This is the second question under number 378/3-2-2021, first question by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Government claims to support workers and businesses during the pandemic." Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all I am glad that we are having a debate on issues of your competence again, because it always has something to gain from the person who reads what we have said. With regard to my question, I would like to inform you why you might not have had time to see the press concerned, that there is, on the one hand, a very strong political interest - that you know - but also journalistic interest. I was surprised, because I have been following this for a long time now, that Mr Karamitsos' intervention in his article, which wrote out of the EUR 24 billion that the government has provided - supposedly - on the market, how much the banks took to channel them to the market and what they have actually done. I have asked this question myself to Mr Stakoura too many times, but also to Mr Georgiadis, and we have caused interesting discussions and controversies in this House. Now we ask you the following: The claims, which my question says, are that 24 billion euros, as Mr Stagioras says, have been dedicated to the market in businesses and people. Yes, sir. My first question is how much of this money has been channelled to the banks in order to channel them to the market, to businesses. My second question is more specific. I have a picture. I just want the official image of the Ministry. How much money did the micro-enterprises get? How much did the small and medium-sized ones get? How much did the big ones get and the big ones? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Basically, from the statistics that we collect from both the National Statistical Authority and the financial report, 97% of Greek companies belonging to large companies have not been financed. If I'm too much, we'll weigh the question of the right word or the overdoing in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Loverdo, first of all, thank you really for your question. It is always an opportunity, as far as we can, to explain exactly what the government has done at this difficult time, because, as we know, immediately after the pandemic has emerged, the state has put in place a series of specialised and targeted interventions aimed at preventing its spread, as it has provided all possible financial support for the affected sectors of the economy. That is why we believe that in the first phase an important obstacle to this unprecedented crisis was created. On this point, which you mentioned, namely the amount of EUR 24 billion, what you put to your question, this relates to an overall grid of budgetary measures and liquidity measures announced and implemented by the Government for 2020. In particular, this amount covers sixty-two interventions, broken down as follows: Firstly, EUR 4.9 billion resulting from a reduction in the government's revenues involving interventions, such as an advance payment of income tax, the cover of insurance contributions by workers whose contracts are suspended, suspension of VAT and other measures. Secondly, an amount of EUR 10.7 billion, resulting from an increase in the government's expenditure, involving measures such as a repayable advance, a special purpose compensation for workers whose contracts are suspended, but also measures such as to cover the costs of equipment to strengthen the National Health System and the recruitment of temporary health personnel. Third, EUR 2,5 billion for liquidity-providing interventions, namely ‘Entrepreneurship II’, the so-called ‘TEPT II’ and the ‘Entrepreneurship Guarantee Fund’. Also, EUR 5.7 billion resulting from the leverage of TIPIX II financial instruments and the Guarantee Fund. Additional interventions have been made, for example the suspension of payments of loans and cheques of the affected enterprises, which are financially neutral, but are worth mentioning, because they help to support businesses. I would like to say in relation to the previous ones that we will once again present to the National Representation a specific table with interventions to address the consequences of the covid pandemic -19, covering the period 2020-2021 in millions of euros. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, with reference to additional contributions, I would like to say and make a clarification: From what has been said above, it does not mean that the banks have collected the funds, but, as we know, liquidity has also been channelled from the Greek Development Bank to businesses. In other words, they are the liquidity transfer strips that came from either Community funds or from State interventions. In particular, the amount of 2,5 billion of the Guarantee Fund and TPIX II was channelled, with a leverage of 5.7 billion being increased to 8.2 billion. The Guarantee Fund provides guarantees on new working capital loans received from small and medium-sized enterprises and which have either been suspended or are further affected by COVID -19. It should be recalled that small and medium-sized enterprises defined under Union rules are those with a turnover of up to 50 million. In terms of employment, it is those who employ up to two hundred and fifty workers. Through the Guarantee Fund, it has been channelled to the end of 2020 4,6 billion in five hundred and twenty-one companies and nine thousand six hundred and twenty-six small and medium-sized enterprises. This amount has already increased by approximately 1 billion and 57%, i.e. 3.2 billion have been channelled to small and medium-sized enterprises and 43% have been channelled to large enterprises. With regard to TENX II, which has been established since 2016, we think - we think - is appropriately used at this juncture. This will provide up to 500,000 working capital loans with a full interest subsidy for a period of two years. Each loan is financed with funds from the Fund and banks at a ratio of 40% to 60%. By the end of 2020, 2 billion had been channelled to seventeen thousand eight hundred and four small and medium-sized enterprises. A further 600 million is expected to be disbursed, with the final beneficiaries exceeding twenty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. By the end of 2020, twenty-seven thousand four hundred and twenty-four small and medium-sized enterprises have been financed, and, as I said, five hundred and twenty-one large companies. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for your dentistry, at ease, as the Minister had.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. In my question I wanted to make it clear, on very clear terms, that the relationship between the Member States - programmes - the European Union. That's the one. The second one: for what is it for? What is it that banks are responsible for? Thirdly, we welcome the market side. This relationship I wanted to show. If we didn't succeed in our protology, we have the ability to do so. But I am clarifying the question. Mr Stagioras, because he is diligent, has often given tables, as you will do today. We don't have paintings. We are suffering from awareness of exactly what we need and what we provide. Why am I using the first plural person? Because we are here the National Representation, the Greek Parliament. We're all talking about everyone. Secondly, it is a little confusing to us and to those who are listening to the use of old terms. I would like us, Mr President, to realise - since this statistic gives us - that the so-called small and medium-sized enterprises are an abstract and inaccurate term. Radiography based on the criteria for turnover - workers, obviously ranks the vast majority of Greek enterprises in very small ones. These enterprises, however, are the blood donor to the Greek economy. Some are important in their space. I understand, I accept, that when it comes to large enterprises it is something that creates a lung of the economy with special logic. Yeah. Alas, if one were to despise the big business. That's a big business, basically. But from this point on, until we reach the point of creating the image on the market of those who are involved in the economic life of the place that in Greece only anyone who does not need the money is funded, because it creates certainty for the bank's employee that he will lend and will not be in danger, creates two obligations. I'm not an expert. You're an expert. Do we have to relax the criteria by legislative means, make them softer, on the basis of which bank employees borrow, decide, make choices? It's an open matter. The second issue is whether or not we should encourage in some way by removing fear from the signatory that he will be in trouble if he signs a loan that is not going well, will he not have good luck? Through the last four years and persecution has been a panic. No one signs if anything is controversial. "He tells you, I don't want to get in trouble." He's getting out of trouble. But after four, five, six years and after being humiliated. These are pathogens that the Greek economy has. Don't you need any intervention for these? Third and last. There have been interventions on the part of our party that want to show some weaknesses. Because as we hear all the ministers speaking here, led by Mr Stakoura, we realise that on the market there must be happiness, liquidity, despite pandemic. And when God passes - first God - the pandemic will be fine and then we will not deal with the issue of poverty. We will not deal with unemployment. We will not deal with the issue of transferring to the field of poor businessmen, who belonged to very small and small enterprises - under old conditions speaking - but have been destroyed. Everything's gonna be fine. But it's not like that. Apart from the fact that we need to prepare for what comes and what comes is poverty, what we need to see now is the criteria. That's my third point. I have told the two of our previous views. We need to see if there is certainty on the third issue to the government that he is doing the right thing. First of all, is it a good record from the Guarantee Fund and from TEPIX II that only 5% of Greek enterprises have been financed? Is it good? I don't hear that with satisfaction. I hear it's a problem. Second, Returner 5 has a turnover drop limit of 20%, I think. What are we leaving out? Have we seen what we leave outside, and what if the people we leave outside have special and great needs? We come with primary elements that we draw from elsewhere. We don't produce evidence. We're opposition. The study department of the National Bank told us months ago that the loss of turnover has reached 50 billion. Now he's up to 50 or up and up and up? To compare the need for the intervention you are doing. In closing, you will never hear of me exaggerations of "do nothing" and "if we were you we would make it all perfect". You're listening to this from other political spaces and not from us. But what we are asking for, we demand and insist is that we have an accurate picture of what the situation is. We look at the banks in a special way. Mr Georgiadis did not provide the observatory of the Government, Mr. Georgiadis, with the observatory of the Bank of Greece, Mr. Stournara, there has been no evidence that we too can use. If they produce evidence, we do not know them, so that we, too, have an asset to our opposition and are waiting for you. You say something, we will take the information you give, we will compare it and the Greek citizens will listen to us in order to draw their conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that the government is giving the National Representation and to the public everything that it has. It's not something he's hiding. I understand Mr Loverdos' remarks that we can always do an even better statistical analysis of the data, and possibly a wider effort in this area, which certainly raises improvements. I would like to say that for at least eight months, since the crisis started, the financial staff have been calling every Tuesday morning on all banks and monitoring the course of financing. We are from above constantly, presided over by the Minister of Finance. Very recently, the Board of Responsibility was set up, which, as you know, is the entire financial staff of the Ministry of Finance, officials of the Bank of Greece, bank officials, staff of the Development Bank, and which, believe me, is now doing a deep job. That is to say, it identifies at the moment whether there are any blockages in the area of liquidity, so that in the near future there will also be those necessary tools which will help even more to provide, transmit liquidity to the real economy and - here to speak simply - to small and medium-sized enterprises. It's something on which we're day-night. I would like to say that from the 24 billion, for which I have spoken, 8.5 have been made available through TPIX and the Guarantee Fund. Of these two programmes alone, 56% of the loans have gone to small businesses of fifty employees. I'm telling you this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u94	Fifty?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u95	They employ up to fifty workers. At the same time, I would like to say that, on the one hand, banks, with official communications that they have recently given, have said that last year they had the largest credit extension that ever existed, reaching 20 billion. That's official evidence. At the same time, the Greek Banking Association - with the same figures - notes that in January-November 2020 suspensions were given to some four hundred thousand businesses and private individuals, a total of EUR 30 billion, thus measuring the economic shocks experienced by the health crisis. I would also like to say that these suspensions are going beyond the loan arrangements, i.e. business, housing, personal, to which banks have made progress lately and which account for EUR 15 billion. In other words, through arrangements or suspensions, the Greek banking system has facilitated borrowers for amounts amounting to EUR 45 billion. Before I close, Mr Loverdos, I want to be open and upright in all my remarks. I'm not saying it's all pomegranate. I say, however, that a huge effort has been made in this unique crisis to really fund the economy and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises, with any potential. But I want us to be honest. We know that much of the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, as the bankers say 'are not bankable', i.e. they do not have all those elements, which directly allow the banks to finance them. We would not like to get to the point where the banks simply finance a good client and give him more than he wants and leave everyone else behind. Here we call on the banks, and we ourselves will strive to create the necessary tools for the banks to evaluate who are those viable customers, who should and should be able to benefit from this huge liquidity that comes. With Mr Sklaakakis here, I would say that the coming resources of the Recovery Fund are a unique opportunity for a dual transformation that the country urgently needs: on the one hand, a transformation of its productive potential, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, which should change structures, there should be such transformations to enable them to be able to absorb this funding in the near future. At the same time, we need, as you know very well, and that is why we are working on another banking system free of the balance of'red' loans, banks that will give loans, that is to say, they will be concentrated in this task precisely which they know, they must and can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u96	We too are thankful, Minister, because, as I have said at the same time, the topical questions do have a pedagogical role, because society is listening, because all the Members of Parliament are transporting the problems which they see apply throughout the country and across the Greek people. We continue with the sixth under the number 387/8-2-2021 topical question of the second question of the Elementary of the Change Movement Mr.Michalis Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Will small businesses draw the liquidity needed for their survival?" The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, you will allow me, because we have a question concerning small businesses, to express my condolences to the family of the President of the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce, Adriaos Michalarou, a man who has been associated with the struggle of craftsmen and professionals and who unfortunately lost the struggle with the coronary and is a great loss to the craft and professional world and, of course, to the Western Attica, who had the honour of serving as an anti-nomist and you know that very well, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u98	I share your words, I endorse them, and as a Member of the West Attica and for years I have been closely associated with the good of the country, not only the Great, but also the entire West Attica, as well as the Piraeus President of the Chamber of Deputies, to express my regret and to condone his own people because he left today a very useful man for the region. Here you go, Mr. Comrade, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to your Ministry's data, eight hundred thousand businesses have suffered considerable losses of turnover since the beginning of the pandemic. There are two worlds: one thousand small enterprises that have drawn a few thousand euros from one or two cycles of repayable advance and from the other that have drawn liquidity from all five cycles back from both the guarantee systems and TEIX and the Guarantee Fund and from the regions' aid, and some of them, to the back ceiling of 800,000 euros. To date, it has not been assessed whether these amounts that have resulted in companies have been used for business operation, repayment of liabilities, or are simply in bank deposits. Why do I say that, Minister? Because an important sum of 21 billion additional deposits comes from these aids, from companies which have not used them for the reason they have taken them. At the same time, you are preparing a EUR 500 million fixed expenditure subsidy programme, with the maximum amount of aid being adjusted, from what you said, up to EUR 10 million, which the BSE crisis has quickened to say, because it will obviously go to very large businesses. And the returnee from 800,000 to 1.6. This means that big companies will get more money, which will be cut off by many small businesses that have a turnover of up to 20% and look for sums to pay back. Also, there is information that they will be cut off from the grant of business loans to companies that were due before the frame, something quite different from the Bridge 1 programme. I say this because according to the Bank of Greece's figures, before the pandemic 55% of the loans made by small businesses were red. We are only talking about loans that are in the banks, not about what they have gone to the servicers. So, you understand how much the unhelpful are. I say this, Minister, because as far as this programme is concerned, the auctions will have been released from 1 June. So you understand how difficult things will be for these enterprises and, indeed, when you and the new programme from the Development Bank do not change the strict banking criteria, so that new loans of up to EUR 50,000 have access to only eight thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Two questions. First, will you introduce a specific quota depending on the size and turnover of the undertaking in subsidising fixed costs in order to strengthen all categories of undertakings? Will you apply a maximum amount of aid and a cap on the repayable, so that the money does not end up in companies that have already been significantly strengthened? Secondly, as President of the Reality Council - since Mr Stagioras has not come today, are you - intending to amend the strict banking criteria for the new loans of the Development Bank, to increase the periphery of the beneficiaries and to incorporate those companies that had late payments before the pandemic into subsidising loan instalments with the new programme you are preparing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the honourable Member for his questions. I shall start by saying that the returnee itself was a measure of enormous intervention in terms of the amount of the subsidy it contains. I would remind you that a subsidy contains two ways: its part from 4 and 5, which is not acceptable, and its part both in 1 and 2 and in 4 and 5, which refers to the difference between the interest rate that is refundable, which is very low, and the interest rate that a company would normally borrow if it could borrow. This significant subsidy and even greater aid, which has so far reached 7 billion, and we continue, from what you have understood, is primarily for smaller companies. Because the cutter, both the top cutter and the bottom cutter - I remind you that in Return 5 there was a maximum amount of EUR 100,000 for the current returner - it is not about any major business. In fact, the Returnee is not about large companies, it is about what we call small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe. As far as its real influence is concerned, the influence on large enterprises is very small. It was made just so because, as you and I have noticed, since the first moment that this issue was in existence, it was not possible to borrow on bank criteria too - too many small businesses, many of them because they had no profile, i.e. they did not respond to their profile, but too much because there was no time to create a banking profile. If we're talking about eight hundred thousand businesses, think about how it's possible to make a profile for eight hundred thousand businesses in a few months when it's not there? Immaculate, totally. I therefore say that we have entered this logic from the very beginning, and that is the policy that we have implemented, which you have described in your questions too. However, we must also take into account another very important issue, which is the jobs. You know, if anyone loses his job and his business is with 10 million cigarettes or 5 million cigarettes, he's not going to be happier because his business had 5 million cigarettes when he lost his job. It will be the same unfortunate and very big problem as he and his family will have either been in a 5 million-dollar business or in a EUR 200 000-dollar business or in a 10-dollar business. Jobs, therefore, are a very important element and our policy must be balanced between support for businesses to survive, especially the borderlines, but also to support jobs in order to survive the specific limit values. When, for example, there are fifty jobs in Greece and we are dealing with it as a big business, the company can survive with 20 jobs. It will not be judged on its viability. But the thirty jobs will be judged. So this balance needs a lot of attention. What I can tell you is that, in order to be fair - you are right that there must be justice - all the aid that someone has received will be deducted from the fixed costs, and so we will be able to help people, regardless of size, who have actually been affected considerably - note that more than 30% of the European framework for fixed costs - but have not been adequately helped.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u103	Minister, we'll start with some truths. The first truth is that it is understandable that there are no unlimited resources. That is why our question and anguish is the fairest possible allocation of existing resources, especially in businesses waiting for a few thousand euros to really give a last fight for survival when the market opens. Why do we say that? Because if we look at the figures in the third quarter of 2020, which was open and tourism in theory was in operation, the fall in turnover, based on ELSTAT's figures, was 13.1 billion. What does that mean? It means that, and when it opens up a market, companies will face a serious problem of operation and sustainability, and if they have not been backed up by liquidity, I fear they will have a real problem of survival. At the same time, you did not answer me on the question of subsidising the instalments of business loans to companies which had been lately due. While "GEOFYRA 1" you are subsidising households with smaller loans, it has a rating, in business, than I read, you completely exclude them. This is of great importance, because if it is concerned that as of 1 June the auctions are fully liberalised, you can understand that companies that had red loans before koruna will not be subsidised for these loans, will have a turnover fall, due to the economic situation and will be in danger of losing people and their home. Secondly, the advance from the first moment we said that it was the only measure that would go to the real economy when your colleagues through a television bomb shared billions through the banks' loans that would go to all companies. We said it was a very good measure and reached the real economy. You must, however, assess how much of the cumulative sums paid to businesses have actually been used for the operation of businesses, the repayment of obligations to suppliers, to the public, to the funds, to any obligations or simply accumulated as cash assets of companies that receive from returnees, from banks, from regions, but do not use them. I say this because in the fifth cycle, in the 1.5 billion returner, you turned it into 1.1 billion with the cuts, which you put all 400 million that have left, you baptized Returner 6. Therefore, this money of Return 6, of Return 7, probably followed by a Returner 8, from what we read - plus the fixed costs, which in total do not exceed 2 billion, should be taken by the companies that are in great need. You yourself as the Ministry of Finance - I conclude, Mr President - have imposed a ceiling on both 5 and 6 on the maximum amount of aid. So you understand that there's not much money going to the companies that've already taken enough money. The regions, in their own programmes, have allocated funds to self-employed persons, zero to nine, ten to fifty, fifty to two hundred and over. In other words, they have shared the money according to the size of the company as far as workers are concerned. Something like this is also called for, and there are certain percentages, in this case: do not raise the threshold of more than 800,000, as Mr Stagioras has said, do not give up to 10 million of the fixed costs, as has been requested by the BSE question, because the money is limited and the minimum amount is increased to focus and retailing. You did it at the focus, on Return 5 and Return 6, but it needs a little more, because it's a sector that needs special attention and has 1.5 billion losses a month. To conclude, I would like to say that in the Reality Observatory, on the basis of Article 78(3)(b) and (d), you are responsible for submitting proposals to improve actions aimed at providing liquidity and ensuring credit expansion. Of course, we will have an interest in the quarterly report. It will also be interesting to inform the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy about the functioning and activities of the Responsibility Council. However, I would like to ask you this: have you tabled a specific proposal on guaranteeing credit expansion and improving liquidity conditions for the majority of enterprises? This is of great interest, because the resources are few, the time is now counting in reverse and, therefore, every euro you will give from now on, it is a wish to go to the businesses that have taken the least so far and have the greatest needs, so that they can survive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u105	I would like to say that I could not agree more with the last phrase of the opposition Member. Indeed, we will be working very hard in the next few days and weeks in this direction at the Ministry of Finance. This is as a general remark. As a special comment on the returnee, I do not believe that we can assume that the returner has, in any case, been saved or saved for this very simple reason: because those who entered the returnee have made very heavy commitments to keep jobs. For example, those on Return 5 are committed to maintaining jobs at pre-crisis levels by June 2021. This commitment, combined with the fact that the returnee each time goes and finances the reduction of the turnover with a specific algorithm that is the function of reducing the turnover, makes me think it is rather difficult for these companies to save. This may have happened in cases of loans which did indeed go to companies that had cash assets. This may have happened. I cannot deny it, especially given that there is an increase in business deposits. These can only be partly the result of a deferral of investments. Now, how can we be more effective in the way that we give this money: I listen carefully to the proposal to put a number of different walls on it. The plaques always have positive elements, but they also have the weakness that somehow arbitrary you put up to nine, up to twenty, until whatever it is about jobs. My own thought is much more to use individual data for business and to be able to see, for example, what a business has done, which doubts its own survival, or to find evidence that companies themselves will choose to go to take a measure because they feel that their viability is at stake, and that measure is not appropriate or attractive to businesses that do not risk their viability. Let us consider enough to present the final exit measures, but also the subsequent aid in a way that responds to this last phrase you have said. Let me conclude by saying that companies mean jobs or jobs, i.e. employees, either jobs of the different categories or jobs of the entrepreneurs themselves often in the vast majority of cases. The key to the next day is survival and jobs. We must never forget that jobs mean insurance contributions and pensions, they mean tax revenue, they mean, after all, a minimum size, which also means competitiveness and productivity. Therefore, in all this exercise, we must never forget workers. We're not just here for business. We are above all for the workers of this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. We continue with the third under No 389/8-2-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for the reopening of the Thorakos Hospital in Patras". The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will respond. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that in recent years Achaia has already been in red, as far as the dispersion of the pandemic with a total ban on traffic and activities is concerned, and even at the "Saint Andreas" Hospital many confirmed cases, which had also led to paralysis of the substance of the hospital's operation. In other words, we observe the following picture in the Achaea Prefecture, which is not just in Achaea, but because we are talking about the particular prefecture: in the four and the one which is a legacy, in other words in five hospitals, which exist in the prefecture, there are many gaps both in medical staff and in nursery staff, which have certainly not been covered all this time. For primary health care, we don't have to talk. He's under collapse. In fact, there is no staff that had been moved to cover gaps and holes in hospitals. From this point of view, therefore, and because we have essentially in Achaia, Rio and St. Andreas the operation of large hospital units as hospitals of a disease, COVID disease and everything else has been suspended, patients of other diseases and particularly chronic diseases, such as oncological patients, are also present and experience their own Golgotha. There is this issue in Achaia and you know it very well. There was a specialist hospital, Thoraca Hospital. The process of deforestation of the New Democracy - PASOK - which closed the rest of the infectious hospitals - was initiated by the SYRIZA - ANEL government to close it, even when a process of upgrading the hospital building and its hotel equipment had begun in the previous period. However, the sixty beds, which were then in the Thoracian Hospital, which was a specialist hospital exclusively for pulmonary diseases, were brought to the "St. Andreas" pulmonary clinic. This hospital can work. The assurances given at the beginning of the pandemic and the Region of Western Greece, as well as the commander of the 6th RES, were that he could have operated this hospital and had taken all the measures. But we've stayed in "will" while it could really be with full equipment on machinery, on ICUs and on medical and nursing staff working as a reference hospital for COVID because it was only for this thing, it was specialized in pulmonary. Nevertheless, there is a persistent refusal from the government, from what we see, in practice, but also from the Region of Western Greece and from the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs to initiate this process, the reopening process not only because of the pandemic, but also after the pandemic of the Thoracian Hospital. So the question that is very specific, Minister, is what specific measures you will take if you are thinking of reopening this hospital. If not, why don't you think about reopening this hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you will allow me to tell you that you are in your question isolating the way you describe the situation in the hospitals of Patras. Reading someone who does not know your question forms the completely wrong image that has nothing to do with reality. I say this without saying that there are no problems, but we first recognized them, we captured them and we tried to resolve them, and this is reflected in the fact that especially in the first period of the pandemic, the University Hospital of Patras, which operated and operated as a reference hospital for COVID -19, but also the General Hospital of Patras "Agios Andreas" successfully managed the pandemic and covered the needs of the wider region and outside the Law of Achaea. Before I refer to your question about the hospital's reopening, let me stand on four points of your question. Firstly, for the staff: I am referring, at every opportunity given, to the issues of the human resources of the ERC, because we are all aware that a huge effort has been made at this time of the pandemic to staff critical areas of the system. I repeat that, at the beginning of the pandemic, we had scheduled two thousand ASs, and we have exceeded seven and a half thousand ASs. Thousands of four hundred and twenty-thousand permanent staff, medical staff, were set up in 2020, and this process is completed - covering these positions and in the past ninety additional posts of permanent medical staff are to be added to the already announced ones. The government's desire to strengthen health and other staff in public hospitals and health centres is expressed in acts. This will also become a reality in the hospitals in Achaea. Thirty-two permanent medical staff were awarded in 2020 by three different notices. Thirty-two permanent doctors' seats in various specialties to meet the needs of all three hospitals in Patras. With regard to supplementary staff fifty - five physicians of various specialties, eighty - eighty - and fifty - three other auxiliary staff are currently strengthening the operation of the Patras hospitals. The conversion of ancillary personnel into permanent staff is something we want and seek, while looking at solutions which will lead to permanent solutions to the National Health System on the basis of real needs. I should like to remind you here of the two hundred permanent doctors' positions in intensive care units, which we covered by a September 2020 notice, but also the ninety auxiliary doctors, who are also permanently employed in intensive treatment units throughout the country. In practice, therefore, the ERC is supported by human resources. For the health workers, who said they were ill with a coronary, the chances are clearly greater than our other fellow citizens, apart from a hospital environment. That is why there have been clear directives on both the adequacy of personal protective equipment and the training of staff in the management of personal protective equipment and the management of coronary cases. This training is particularly repetitive. In addition, for the protection of health workers, we have carried out specific measures and among these measures are PCR tests and rapid personnel tests. Allow me to say that throughout the pandemic and now hospitals continue to operate properly by serving all our fellow citizens who need health services and not only our fellow citizens who suffer from coronary diseases. Surgeries, which you say are canceled, are actually transferred over time. This is not only done in Greece, it is done around the world and it concerns cases of patients whose health is not threatened. They are routine cases and can be transferred a few weeks later. This is mostly done to protect...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u110	Minister, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll take time from dentistry to answer the question. This is done on the basis of both the protection of our fellow citizens who come to hospitals and the protection of health workers. It is also characteristic that, in the middle of a pandemic in patients such as oncology patients, for example, continued scheduled treatments and interventions without delays or transfers. It's important that no emergency or emergency has been postponed. A characteristic example, because I am referring to the oncological patients, is the Department of Radiotherapy at the University Hospital of Patras, in which waiting for treatment from three months ago a year ago is now less than a month. Finally, I will answer the question, Mr President. Thank you. As regards my introduction and the content of Mr Karathanasopoulos's question, let me say that vaccination of the population is our first priority, and that is why he joined the design...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u112	Secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u113	Just a minute, Mr President, and then a second. The fact that our fellow citizens are vaccinated in the health structures of the National Health System has nothing to do with the rest of the functions. That's why we incorporated hospitals and health centres into our vaccination planning. The provision of health services is normally done, as is all the appointments for examinations and treatments. As regards the staff of the vaccination centres, this consists in the majority of the recruitment of subsidiary doctors and other staff, which have been carried out for this purpose. I will return to my dentext for answering your question, Mr Karthanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u115	However, I am very sorry, Mr Minister, the question here is a very specific one. We have not talked about all health issues at a pan-Hellenic level. We mentioned why the chest hospital doesn't work again. That's what you didn't say a word about. You were talking six to six and a half minutes. This is the main issue of the question. Otherwise, I, too, could list dozens of numbers that cancel and question yours so-called. Because it is not how many subsidiary people have been hired or how many will be recruited. It's what shortcomings there are. Minister, you're showing me the question. The question, however, has a specific question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u116	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u117	Yes, if you want to introduce seven minutes, so you don't answer the main question, I'm very sorry. I do not want to go into such a controversy, however, because here it is clear what the situation is. Days ago, the hospital practically stopped working due to the cases of the coronary and became a pan-Hellenic issue. I do not want to mention why, but there has been this incident, of course. Is it a fact that both HPL and Ophthalmological Clinical Hospital have been evacuated at the University Hospital of Rio to convert to COVID beds? Two clinics. And now more are being prepared, Pneumonology and Gastrointestinal. Oncology patients are doing their chemistry at the external hospitals, stacked in rooms of two or more people to do their treatment. These are facts which cannot be called into question. Primary health care has collapsed, there is no substance, because there are huge movements of medical personnel to cover 'blocks' and needs. Thus, the issue is not working and there was a given reality in Achaea, which could unload this situation. Because Achaia, as you know very well, is a point of reference for all Western Greece and both islands, and Zakynthos and Kefalonia. That is how it works on the substance. It would be precisely that that would dismantle the situation, facilitate the situation when it is ready to work. Machinery as a government, you served a number of hospitals. This could also have been staffed by various resources, both with machinery and staff, so that it can function as a reference hospital, dismantling the other hospitals. Why do you insist on that logic where there is a problem? Because you're just saying: Surgeries weren't cancelled, they were postponed. Thank you so much! They know that very well. But when they are postponed and when they go for later, you understand what great weight they will be given to hospitals, if a state of normalization comes, to serve all these regular surgery, which have been deferred. The first dose was postponed and the second dose by thousands was regularly postponed surgery. So not only are you not facing these situations, but this is actually getting worse on the ground. That's why the question is very specific: will you do something for Thoracus Hospital? The rest we can talk about them in any other question about the Hospital of Rio, about the Hospital of St. Andreas, about the Hospital of Aegina, the Kalavrytas or the "Caramandaneo" that has problems, but they are about other things. In this particular matter: Will Thorakos Hospital restart? If not, why don't you reopen it? What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u118	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u119	I'll be brief this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u120	I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u121	On the question, of course, Mr Karthanasopoulos, you had an introduction to your question, which had to be answered, which is why my answer was extensive. As far as Thoracian Disease Hospital is concerned, this is not the case at this time. Let me tell you why it's impossible to reopen this hospital. Firstly, there are no suitable spaces and infrastructures at the moment in order to safely develop a clinic for coronary patients. There is no medical, medical and other staff available and the transportation from other hospital units to that, rather more problems and risks will be created. There is no possibility of developing supportive medical laboratories and supporting specialists. There is no possibility of developing intensive therapy beds. It may be hasty, therefore, and under pressure, to develop a hospital's activation plan from the outset and in the middle of a pandemic, apart from the dubious effect, it also poses huge risks and would help to break down the forces of the national health system in the Achaea region. In conclusion, I would like to say once again that we are not suffering from buildings. What we need is continuous improvement in the quality of services provided from prevention and treatment, until monitoring and full restoration. It is important how effective you provide health services and how effective and efficient you are dealing with pandemic. The area of Achaia, the area of Patras is a typical example of the successful management of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. We continue with the second question under number 3156/11-1-2021 of the SYRIZA Members' circle of petitions - Progressive Alliance Mr.Syria Malamas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Several building problems in the Regional Hospital of Ormilia Halkidiki". The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Kontozamanis. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for over a year and a half, the Ormulia Halkidiki Regional Medicine Office has provided SOS and, unfortunately, you are not listening. This is one of the largest regional hospitals in the region, responsible for the San Nikolaos Health Centre and serves very important health care needs and citizens' prescribing needs. In particular, the structure in your original planning was also planned to be a vaccination centre, as it covers a large geographical area with more than five thousand inhabitants. It should be noted that this population is growing rapidly during both the tourist season and during the olive harvest period, with what this of course means for the health needs covered by the Regional Health Office. In other words, we say that about a thousand people a month visit this medical office. However, the current situation in the Ormulia Regional Medical Institute is literally shocking. The images we saw going there were really noisy: wet shells, holes, ceiling holes, full absence of suitable infrastructure for providing health services to patients and a very dangerous environment for the work of health workers. Mr Minister, we have informed you of this from the parliamentary control you have not answered. The 4th Health Region, which was also responsible until recently, had left the structure without heating. We repeat that you must immediately take action, because it is unacceptable to view such images today at a time when we are all supposed to agree that public health is our first and only concern. So we are telling you again to take immediate steps to relocate the regional health service to a place that meets the standards and which health workers will be able to do properly. This area poses a risk to public health and is literally a disgrace to those who face this situation and, of course, to those who experience it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u124	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Malama, as you know, the Regional Hospital of Ormilia is housed in a house and plot that has been awarded in the form of a donation to the Municipality of Polygyros in the municipality of Ormilia from the Association of "Philetal Association of "Love". Unfortunately, this concession requires a decision of the municipal council to grant use to the 4th Health Region, which is pending and the point where the building is located in the centre of the settlement is a fact that it serves the residents. However, it does not meet the standards for housing health establishments as, as you mentioned, it presents a number of problems in both building and electromechanical infrastructures. In order for the 4th Health Region to be able to carry out maintenance and repair techniques, the use of the building is required and only then will we be able to commit appropriations for the implementation of the necessary technical projects. The management of the 4th Health Region has requested the assistance of the municipality for maintenance and repair, but it is unable to bear the costs. This, together with the need to implement this costly renovation, because there are the issues you mentioned and need to be resolved in order to meet the conditions for the building to function as a regional hospital, led the Health Region to decide to carry out a competitive procedure to find a property for rent that meets the operating requirements and the technical requirements necessary for housing the health regions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u126	Please, my colleague, have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since your position, I think you haven't understood exactly what's going on. You didn't convince us. You have not told us that you have understood this problem first, because what you mentioned in relation to the municipality has been in existence for a long time, it is nothing new and, secondly, because you do not know - you have committed yourself to what you have just said to us - that there will soon be space. I would invite you and I would really challenge you to devote a few seconds for the photos I have brought to you, which prove that this situation has been in existence for over a year and a half. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. The picture from the building? The picture from the toilets? The image from where they take the first help? What's to say first? The image from the surroundings? The fact that they don't have heating? Whatever you say, I am very sorry, Minister, but it is incomprehensible to tolerate this situation, because, as you have said, we will have to wait long enough until a subsequent move is made. There are doctors who literally raise patients in their hands, because they don't fit the cart, they don't fit the truck, there are no infrastructures for people with motor difficulties. So let us leave words and go to specific commitments. Dates we want, Minister. What steps will you take, from now on, to find a decent place to house the Ormilia Regional Hospital? Date, we need a date. We also ask you when the 4th Health Region will send, at least until it solves the matter, a technician to gather this uncomfortable thing. Be aware that the people of Ormulia are listening to you, they are extremely disappointed and if you do not immediately correct this unacceptable image, and we will be committed to coming back to the point very soon to see what you have done, what you will do, when you will do so and accordingly we will also inform the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u128	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Malama, I don't think that image at the health center has been created over the past year and a half. There was certainly a precedent on your day and I told you that we have taken concrete action so that we could find a place for the services, where the required operating conditions will be met, so that all our fellow citizens in this area will enjoy health services. I told you that we have opened a tender and we are at your disposal to give you specific dates and timelines for the project. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u130	We will now discuss the seventh under number 391/8-2-2021 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Only-day actions to reduce wages from the administration of the OSH". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since August 219 the government appointed by the New Democracy Administration has failed to implement the terms of the non-wage cost of the collective agreement of workers. The reason for the OSH Administration's cutbacks is that the collective agreement does not have the signature of the Minister of Finance. The collective agreement has been signed in 2018 on government SYRIZA with large wage reductions due to the implementation of the single wage, which reached 20%, added to previous reductions in 2015. Responsibility for not signing the collective agreement lies with the then Minister of Juliarakis, but also with the administration of the OSH, which, however, applied the collective agreement. For a few months now, the Agency's current administration, on the same grounds as the 'non-enforcement of the collective labour agreement', has declared to workers that it will make new reductions in wages and institutional rights for workers. Since February, the cut-off has already begun. All from the summer of 2019 until today and despite the calls of OSTH workers, the Minister responsible does not sign the collective labour contract. In the past few months, e-mail from the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Transport has been assured to the trade union of workers that there is a desire for the Prime Minister to be given a new extension of the collective labour agreement. However, this was not the case. We consider it unacceptable, Minister, that the Government should take measures to reduce workers' rights under the collective agreement and even, at a pandemic time, trying to exploit the difficulty of convening general assemblies, making decisions and even at the meetings of the trade union boards. Under no circumstances should the administrations of organisations and undertakings exploit the particular - obviously - conditions which exist because of the pandemic to impose reductions in wages and rights on workers. You ask, Minister, what the government will do to implement the existing collective agreement, not to reduce the wages of OSH workers and to return immediately the workers who have been cut off from the Agency's administration. Secondly, what will the government do to prolong the collective bargaining of workers until the conclusion of the negotiations for the signing of a new contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u132	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Stoltides, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to raise a point concerning the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency - my country - and it concerns about two thousand workers in it. As you know, the OSTH issues involve both the supervision of the Ministry - in this case the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - and the Ministry of Finance. Obviously, I will answer specifically and in detail the issues that are within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I would also like to point out that the OSH has been put into special liquidation in accordance with Article 27 of Law 4482/2017. From that point and after the staff of the Agency joined the single wage bill of the State, the provisions of Law No.4354/2015 apply. Mr Stoltides, your timely question, which we are debating today, is exactly the same - word for word - with the question number 3800 to the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, the Infrastructure and Transport and the Economics, which was tabled on 2 February 2021 and for this question there is already a written reply from OSH on 5-2-2021. You ask what action the Ministry of Labour will take to ensure, as you say, that the existing collective agreement is implemented and that workers' wages are not reduced, but that workers are not cut off. As regards enterprises, such as the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency, there is a specific binding legal framework for the operational contracts signed by the General Government bodies, which includes compliance with a specific procedure. On the question of the number of trade union licences, I would also like to point out that the provisions of Law 1264/1982 have been amended by Law 4472/2017, i.e. the number of trade union licences has changed. But let's take one by one of your questions. I shall begin with the question of wages, so that there is absolutely no doubt among the workers. On wages, according to the written information we have from the Agency's President and CEO, there has been no cut in statutory earnings, but neither will it be done. The staff of the OSH shall be paid in accordance with Law No.4354/2015 and in this context all employees shall receive the intended personal difference. According to the OSTH administration, in addition to this, in the context of a policy of burnt land, such as the current management received from the previous administration, OSTH was given a portion of the workforce, completely illegally, except for the first and second personal differences. I wonder if that is what our fellow citizens in Thessaloniki know, much more when this cost around EUR 2.25 million a year. Obviously, this is not going to, not allowed, to continue. Your second question, concerning the collective agreement, according to the information we have from the relevant Legal Service of the Ministry of Labour, on cases where the general government bodies draw up a collective labour contract, for example the provisions relating to their economic content. In particular, the special provisions of Article 43 of Law 4484/2017 apply. These provisions include the cases where a new collective agreement is to be signed and the procedure to be followed in this case. More specific provisions in force are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The operational collective agreement on the terms of pay and work of all OSH employees, linked to the Agency by a contract of conditional employment, had a term of validity from 1-10-2017 to 31-12-2019. In accordance with the changes made as a consequence of the pandemic, the regulatory conditions for collective labour agreements and arbitration decisions, the three-month extension of which expired from 29 February to 30 April 2020, are extended until 30 June 2020. Apart from the specific legislative extension of the laws on collective agreements and administrative decisions, which have been limited for the time being, there is no other provision in this regard for the current or otherwise period. In addition, under the responsibility of the Reconciliation Department on questions of your question, at the request of the OSH trade union organisation, which was submitted to the relevant Department of Labour on 14-12-2020, a tripartite conciliation teleconferencing conference was held on Tuesday 12-1-2021. In conclusion, and according to the information we have from the management of the organisation, it is ready to sign directly a legitimate collective labour agreement with the association on non-wage issues, as mentioned above, and the law allows. Obviously, the administration is open to dialogue and for any reasonable improvements to its proposals, but always in the context of legality. As far as licensing, off-shore and wage issues are concerned, and we also have the opinion of the General Accounting Office of the State, I shall refer to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. So, Minister, it seems from the answer that you are making use of the trik, which is created to differentiate the earnings of workers in illegal and legitimate, by creating this first and second personal dispute, by including the latter in the non-legislative. That is exactly what we denounce and wonder, because that is exactly what we have said in our question, that it was a commitment by the Prime Minister himself that he intends to implement it. However, from the answer to the question, Mr Minister, it is more than obvious that SYRIZA and you, New Democracy, are playing in the backs of workers and the Thessaloniki people - I will explain why - a very bad one, not to say otherwise, a game, to give transport to the hands of individuals and clean from weight and work rights, by implementing the orders of your 'fathers', of the European Union, to liberalise transport. The SYRIZA, immediately after the New Democracy and Stakora, which reduced by 10 million euros the wages of employees, in 2017 by the Spirtzi Act, Law No.4482 applied the single payroll, although the OSH legal person, cutting another 18 million euros. New Democracy is coming again and on the pretext that the collective agreement was not signed by the relevant Minister of Finance of the SYRIZA and cuts further EUR 2.5 million further with the unilateral non-implementation of the collective labour agreement. You will allow me to say that we are talking about a fat job, because here it seems that 'one hand washes the other'. We are talking about a total of EUR 30 million from New Democracy - SYRIZA - New Democracy. Keep the amount, because it will serve us shortly later. These 30 million cuts have been deducted from workers at least 25% to 45% of their wages. I now come to the transport project, to see a little bit of the driving force, as you call the private initiative that with an incentive to profit takes things forward. If we add the sums allocated each year to private individuals' transport services, then we will see that we are talking about a sum of EUR 30 million, all that you have removed from the workers. Approximately EUR 5 million, the first six lines provided by SYRIZA to the CBC, EUR 18 million, the twenty-five lines provided by the New Democracy to the CBC, EUR 5-6 million to leasing and EUR 1 million to purchase the fifty buses from the municipality plus an unknown amount for the conversions and installation of air conditioning machines. On the way, you have made this seem necessary over time, after you have deceived and deported capable of meeting the transport needs of buses, when OSH craftsmen could place hundreds of rotting vehicles on the market, because there are no spare parts of thousands of euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And what did you do? You have just brought buses freshly, almost in the same years of operation, with the same kilometres and leaps of damage to OSH vehicles, with repairs to be made by the craftsmen in OSH trains and with a finished plumbing system in the driver's chairs, who have broken their bodies on the old mechanical system and with replacements for the so-called "mammoth", with single vehicles, which is a tragic irony and the joy of the coronary, since hundreds of drivers have been infected, but also some have lost their lives, of course, making vehicles super-transmissions at this time. These are issues on which the independent, in our opinion, had to be dealt with justice and not to check out the fair struggles of workers, with these decisions against the strike. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. With the EUR 30 million a year for these benefactors, you would apply the collective labour agreement without these 2,5 million cuts, OSH would meet its needs in spare and consumables, hire permanent staff, buy new buses and the transport would be greatly improved, while the vehicles would belong to the organisation rather than to private individuals. The case of OSTH, Minister, is a flagrant proof that profit is the cause of the life of the workers and the people. The workers and the people of Europe must no longer tolerate this disgrace, in our opinion, to their detriment. We call on them not to pinch the bait of social automation - a weapon of the governments, all of you, for their disarmament - and to put aside the voices of compromise in their trade unions to give victory to their collective agreements. We recall that the money is of the people of Thessaloniki as a whole, who must and can impose modern, secure, cheap transport that meets his needs in full. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with what you said earlier, Mr Stoltides. The double personal difference is simply non-legislative, and that is why it is not paid. It's over and out. Now, according to the opinion of the General Accounting Office of the State dated 11 February 2021, i.e. just four days ago, any collective agreement or ministerial decision or decision of the board of directors providing for non-wage benefits by general government bodies, other than local government agencies, is signed by the Minister of Finance, when the expenditure is more than EUR 5,000 per year. In addition, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, any collective agreement on the granting of non-wage benefits is attached as an annex and an integral part of that study to the number of workers involved in the provision of the cost involved, as well as the way of covering which is approved by the Director-General for Economic Services of the Ministry of Finance, taking into account the approved medium-term financial strategy framework each time. In this context, the OSTH collective labour agreement signed on 21-2-2018 was submitted to the General Accounting Office of the State, but its terms were not in accordance with the limitations laid down in existing legislation. It was therefore not signed by the then competent Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis. With regard to the day-to-day and leave, as the President of the Agency says in his document, the non-legislative days of almost a thousand days of annual trade union leave allocated by the club to him can be accepted, while the law allows for up to five days per month for the president, vice president and secretary of the club, that is to say only a hundred and eighty days per year. Thus, practically, some, while not working, actually received fees. In addition to the selective treatment of specific employees of the organization, this regime, according to the OSTH administration, has afflicted the citizens of Thessaloniki, to whom you referred earlier, with EUR 300,000 a year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In addition, as indicated in the relevant OSH administration information document, it is not possible to continue to grant non-legal treatment in breach of the applicable laws of a hundred and fifteen days, while the provision of the law is for two days off every five working days, i.e. a hundred four days a year and six compulsory holidays a year. Therefore, OSH staff cannot benefit from privileged treatment as compared to other workers, much more when this non-legal arrangement costs citizens about EUR 3.3 million per year, according to the OSH administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u138	We continue with the first with number 295/28-12/2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Evaluation of unemployed graduates in the proper functioning of e - EFKA". Mr. Chacloglu will answer the question. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like, if I could, with your permission to take off the mask because embassy and mask are a little difficult. If I may, and with the tolerance of my colleagues, I'll take it off. Mr President, I am pleased that you are in this Chamber, but I hope you will answer me, not with the same political inequality, that you have answered the JRC's colleague for OSH. I would like to recommend that you, although much smaller and more inexperienced, do not trust the notes of the OSH administration and the unrelenting head of Mr Skódras, who just yesterday in a conversation with the OSH workers, addressed them as if they were slaves and said to them: 'Work to make the money you get'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u140	But, Mr. Comrade, then you'll ask me for time from yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u141	I will not ask you at all, Mr President. I promise. As much tolerance as you've shown the rest of us, I'm asking. So, by addressing the workers with the logic of slaves and caretaker and at the same time checking themselves - because you have spoken of the damage to citizens and public finances - of the direct assignment of EUR 75 000 from the unreported Mr. Scotty to an advertising company in the middle of a coronary to develop a strategy. I hope in my question that you are more honest and brave, because my question is about an existing problem that has taken a double dimension. Do you want, at last, as a government in that country, pensioners to enjoy their pension in due time? The way there is, as long as there's will. I think Mr Brutsi's caratification is not enough to change the climate in the two hundred and sixty-four thousand applications that they expect, in a problem that was not created by your government alone, but which was dramatically exacerbated, because you had invented the 'climate' pension, the electronic pension. However, the problem has been exacerbated. We come to you with the question: Instead of resorting to what Mr Hatzidakis, the new Minister of Labour, the permanent translater of public interests, says: 'or to come to a private manager or to hire retired people', we say to you - I close, so that I do not abuse time - that there are six hundred highly qualified graduates, not five hundred, who promise us that you will bring from abroad into the first months of your administration. They were benefiting from the OAS and tomorrow morning, with the same provisions as for pensioners in the ECAA can work, because they would get the pensions and increase the yield by 31%. There's a way. Do you want these people to be also apart from the cynical and unemployment tragedy and pensioners to get their pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Giannoulis and you, I thank you for your question, because you are indeed giving me the opportunity to address an important issue concerning the proper functioning of the ECA, which I would like to point out is an autonomous agency, supervised by the Ministry of Labour. Your question concerns the use of unemployed graduates by the ECA to issue outstanding pensions, namely an issue concerning the functioning of the Agency, and I will therefore reply to you on the basis of the information provided by the ECA administration on this subject. You refer to your question in the specific employment programme for five and a half thousand unemployed graduates of higher education and technology, aged twenty-two to twenty-nine years in ministries and supervised public bodies, as defined in Article 51 of the Law. No 1892/1990 and not engaged in an economic activity. This programme was 12 months long and, as you know, it was completed. It was intended to combat unemployment and deal with the leaving abroad of high-skilled young people, the well-known Brain Drain. This programme, according to the information provided by the EBRD, was planned for the implementation of specific projects which did not cover the fixed and continuous needs of the services. In fact, the administration of EFKA in April 2018, almost three years ago, had been asked to imprint the needs of that period to staff, as well as the related projects that could be implemented through the Programme. The projects described by EKKA to be implemented through the Programme were, according to the document No 93127 of the Directorate-General for Insurance and Employers' Service, the following: First, the acquisition of property - housing services, which concerned beneficiaries who had electricians - engineers, architects and engineers - engineers, and second, the management of files - files, such as the settlement of files and supporting documents in physical files, correspondence and preparation for the transmission of documents within and outside the body's service, the transfer of files, the search for pensions - employers' files from the archive, etc. With regard to their employment items, according to the information we have from the administration of the ECA, the beneficiaries did not cover standing and constant needs, they were not entitled to sign the administrative documents of the ECA and had not been granted a password for ECA applications and information systems. During the duration of the programme, the body was allocated to the seven hundred sixty beneficiaries of whom five hundred fifty-seven university and two hundred three technological training courses. Some of them have been employed in pension agencies, but rather regional. Mr Giannoulis, as I recently said in the House, the total outstanding outstanding pension, apart from international ones, at the end of 2020, was a hundred and fifty-four thousand. Most of them, about forty-five of the former IKA, thirty one of the former OGA, twenty-eight of the former OAU and twenty-two of the public. With regard to the issue of the reinforcement of e-RDP with human resources, it is noted that according to the annual recruitment schedule of regular staff of the year 2020, they were approved for PSA recruitment by the NCA as a whole of eighty-six regular staff. In addition, with the annual schedule of regular recruitments for 2021 we have another hundred employees with ADP procedures to meet the needs of the organisation. These eighty-six recruits also add the additional measures to strengthen the functioning of the e-ECA, recently announced by Mr Hatzidakis. I shall refer to this in my denunciation. The Ministry’s plan to further strengthen EVA in the current period and in the next few years includes the possibility of a temporary staff member of the EVC services with former staff of the retired fund who are experienced in the issue of the award of pensions. The creation of step-by-step employees by providing additional fees based on the achievement of specific objectives again in the field of pension awarding. Retraining of officials with experience in awarding pensions by other public bodies, and in particular the State General Accounting Office to the ECA, for a limited period of time again in this area of pension award. Temporary disposal of staff qualified by chambers of science, recruitment of new staff, in order to liberate executives with experience in the award of pensions now employed in other activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u144	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u145	I'd like a minute, please. Aid for technological equipment, so that teleworkers can carry out their duties without delay. There is also no request for secondment or transfer of an employee from the ECA to the public mobility programme. To conclude, because I have exceeded my time, as it implies from the previous ones, EVA is currently in need of staff with experience in the awarding of pensions. According to the information we have from these people, to which your question refers, they generally do not have this feature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not exhaust the tolerance shown to the Minister, because I feel a little bad. I, Minister, and as a spectator, but also as a participant in this process, had the impression that it is much more useful to answer from the heart and from the breasts than to reproduce the notes prepared by the service actors. Why am I saying it? Because in the note prepared for you there is a contradiction. You admit that these high-scientific people have participated in the issue of pensions. I assure you - and I find it very difficult to sign something if it is not accurate - that the four hundred scientists I describe, from morning to noon, were entitled to pensions. Does this interest you as a government and us as a political system to solve? Do you know the interaction that a pension has with a poorer country, with a large number of unemployed and a new wave of poverty, which comes? Do you know her hypocrisy? They're not five vocals in one text. It's real life. These pensions will keep live families in the current state. Are you saying that we cannot do this in a Parliament which, because of the pandemic you have turned it into - with all due respect - into a 'drug-making machine'? Are you saying that you can reinstate to the active agency of pensioners of EKA by an additional fee and cannot, as Mr Hatzidakis describes, with an eight-month project contract to employ unemployed graduates who, in addition to unemployment, have reached the limits of psychological collapse? Is that what you're telling me? That you can't do it? You want to and you can't? Just say: we don't want to. Today there is another unfortunate juncture. The amendment on the 'paper' to pensioners is tabled and approved, with the polished dilemma 'did you prefer nothing or that?' No, Minister. These people are entitled if not 80 percent or full pension, certainly not to be hostages of an electoral logic, which says "take now the $380 pocket and when the elections come, we will open the pug of the state's budget and give you the pensions". These are, Minister, there is a song that says it is'salt tricks'. But in politics by a government, which has even made a tool to the pandemic, we are not surprised. I'm not talking personally about you. I want to close up with an appeal. At some point, we should be united in this Chamber by common sense and efficiency. You cannot seriously claim that four hundred graduates, tested and experienced in the liquidation of pensions cannot contribute to one of the most important issues currently facing the Greek society. I only accept the argument: 'We do not want to. We want the managers, we want the retired." I fully respect it, but there are other priorities. One last thing. Why should there be confidence in - not to you personally - in the successor of undocumented Minister Brutsi, who exercised political and service functions only on television? Why should there be sensitivity when, up to the last minute, the House's Budget Office beg you to table the exact number of outstanding pensions and to receive silence? It is imperative, Minister, that a solution be found. The solution we are describing needs braveness and honesty on your part, because it cures a double problem: both pensioners and graduates who, instead of coming from Europe, the five hundred of the Brooklyn drunk leave four hundred and another four thousand are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, thank you. Mr. Giannoulis, I will only agree with you on one thing of what you said. That they really need objective evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u150	Do not affect you if you agree with me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u151	What impact, Mr. Giannoulis? I wanted to refer to the fact that of these people who were employed in this field, a very small percentage was involved in pension awarding, according to all the information I have and that was on regional issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u152	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Giannoulis, I listened carefully. At the moment, what we need is people who are experienced at the core of the problem. Now, having as the basis of the work already done by the administration of EKKA and the previous political leadership, the last example of the package that was adopted at the end of 2020 and already started to be implemented, they are being launched, except for the setting up of a project manager and a project team that have already taken up a job and the following measures: the first was the granting of national pensions, and indeed retrospectively since the filing of the application for a pension as a relief measure for pensioners. This is not overthrowing all the previous ones. In other words, speeding up the procedure for the provision of pensions or for the provision of temporary pensions. The second is the priority for payment of pensions, for which a request has been submitted before 2018, namely to cover those who are waiting for most of the time. The next measure is to extend the use of private sector services, especially the part of data recording and the creation of files. The next one is the creation of specific programmes to accelerate the award of pensions to the most problematic insurance funds, united in the ECA where major difficulties are encountered, such as the former CSAY, the former CSMEDA and the NAT. The next one is simplifying the procedures for the issue of a pension by preparing appropriate regulations and legislation to bring together the steps that are needed today. The next step is the establishment of a single pension framework exclusively electronically, the exploitation of more ECA staff, including the newly appointed ones in my prototype in the pension and pension maturities sectors, the gradual association of the issue of main and ancillary pensions with a gradual integration of the structures so that the whole process can be accelerated and no gaps can be observed between the payment of the main and supplementary pensions, and, finally, the acceleration of the digitalisation of the ECA files with the use of resources from the recovery fund. The digital front also examines a series of direct action initiatives from upgrading the Ministry's websites and all the bodies supervised by it - OAS, OAED, OPECA - in order to be more useful, as the use of JEPs for the better service of insured and retired people and the creation of modern telephone centres to solve the citizens' questions and direct them to the relevant service. With these measures, we hope that the question of outstanding pensions that has been arousing our pension system for many years will enter the path of its final solution. However, if an additional need arises, we could also consider the possibility of temporary employment for people in the group mentioned in your question who have been employed even regionally in the awarding of pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u154	We're continuing with the last question. It is the fourteenth under number 393/8-2-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Do not apply the exclusion of the Sport Associations from the countryside." The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Eleftherios Ausgeakis. Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, the situation in the field of sport is dramatic, destructive, unacceptable, with the responsibility of the government and yours personally. Firstly, since November the sporting world and athletes and workers have been in despair, especially of the smaller categories in group sports, as after the end of the championships, with the exception of those of Super League 1 and 2, Basket League and Volley League, all of this time remains essentially without income. In fact, they are categories that players have almost the same obligations as a second professional category. Secondly, thousands of unions have been excluded from the Sports Register, while they have sporting activities. Refuse to grant them even these crumbs from the state grant. All this because? To punish any clubs, actors and athletes is not your choice, to check the upcoming antiquities of sports federations, even applying electronic votes in the pretext of transparency, simplification of procedures and many other excuses. While all this happens, you are asked for the expulsion from the land premises of those unions that have not been registered in the Register of Sports Associations. A document of yours was sent on 3-2-2021 from your office to the municipalities of the whole country. You notified the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Minister of the Interior, the President of the CEDEFOP and the President of the HEDN. You sent this letter through a pandemic with the time-consuming procedures for entering the register that the unions have actually kneeled. This is an unprecedented practice of Minister. You are addressing the municipalities of the country, calling on them to exclude from their sports facilities any association that has not been registered. Instead, the Minister supports sports clubs, fights them rabies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, what are you doing, Secretary? You blackmail them by suggesting to the municipalities, with the following proposal: In the event of their non-compliance, you may apply Article 3(2) accordingly. 4 of Law 4726/2020 decide to leave their premises. This unacceptable approach has caused a disturbance in the sporting world. Already dozens of associations, bodies and unions from all over Greece have risen up before danger, dozens of clubs with thousands of athletes and have not been able to register in the register, stay on the street. So we ask you, Minister, the question of questions: have you wondered what damage you have caused to amateur Greek sport and the consequences that will have not only now, but also the aftermath of COVID -19th century? What do you intend to do in order: Firstly, will you proceed directly to the opening of sport and always in accordance with the scientists' instructions and with all protection measures? Secondly, does this disgusting exclusion not apply to clubs that you seek from sports facilities and withdraw the provocative document to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Comrade, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. Thirdly, to grant directly all clubs on the basis of the branches and sports they cultivate and which have not completed their registration in the Electronic Register? Fourthly, disconnect the register from the electoral processes of unions and federations? To participate in elections based on sports recognition and sport activity? Should the register remain open to all unions and simplify the procedures for accessing and completing the registration? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, recently, on the occasion of complaints that have seen the light of publicity, a public debate has been opened on the abuse of power, powerless violence, sexual harassment and abuse of athletes, artists and other social spaces. Since the story of Sophia Bekaterou and the complaints of Mr. Nikos Kaklamanakis, we have seen hundreds of supportive posts of citizens and announcements of support for athletes, clubs and players of all sport towards their faces. Most of all, however, we saw the exhortation to any man who has fallen victim to abuse of power, sexuality and any other form of violence, to break his silence. We saw the President of the Republic symbolically calling Sofia Bekaterou to make such statements. We saw the Prime Minister of our country coming forward and vitally highlighting the seriousness of the issue, expressing his sensitivity, announcing initiatives. We have seen justice make the necessary moves and investigations, which are under way. Of course, we could not stay unresolved throughout this story, since we had created a security framework for all these athletes, who now know that a government is determined to break eggs and go to the end of this big and serious affair. But all we have done so far is not enough. That is why I have presented today - and I will present them in the plenary and in my dentext, I will reply to your question, Mr Syntagakis - a package of measures, a framework of thirteen measures. But we have already started and other programmes are being planned for the coming period. Firstly, we are setting up in the General Secretariat of Sports Centre for Sports Support, a helpful desk. This is the creation of a service in the General Secretariat of Sports, which will receive requests and questions from athletes, sports operators and the general public, and will promote them to the services and then respond to the resolution of procedural, operational, institutional, legal, and other issues. Second, the Sports Counselor. He is the institutional mediator between the sports family - athletes, parents of juvenile athletes, coaches - for the early identification and fair and efficient management of complaints. Thirdly, an advisory support line. A joint ministerial decision is already under way in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to strengthen existing structures, to support athletes who are subject to any kind of abuse. Fourth, integrity codes. First, codes of conduct. In other words, creation, where there is no, and faithful respect by all sports federations and associations of ethical principles and international standards for the rights and obligations of athletes and other sports actors and in line with the ILO Code of Conduct. Secondly, disciplinary code: Update of the disciplinary code and respect for the principles of the ILO and the international federation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Fifth, National Sports Research Centre, the so-called EAEC. We are energising an important pillar in the field of sport research and medical practice, which has been inactive for years. By relocating its offices to new OAS areas, ensuring funding for its equipment with innovative medical tools, the EAEC immediately begins to carry out its sporting and social work. Six, athletic psychology. Mandatory psychologist employment in all sports federations in cooperation with the EAEC and the Health Committee of the General Secretariat of Sports. Seventh, Institute for the Training of Sports Executives. Under the supervision of "Zehos Sports" and in collaboration with higher educational institutions, the Hellenic Olympic Committee, the Hellenic Paralympic Committee, we create the Institute for Training Sports Executives. It will offer training seminars aimed at creating a permanent training institution for sports executives. Eighth, Sports Association Register. Continuous update, no closure of the register of legal amateur associations that have been integrated into the Register and wishing to join it. The door is open and we invite everyone to the law, to transparency, to the economy. Ninth, Coach Register. It has already been established in Law 4726/2020 and the procedures with the staff of the General Secretariat of Sport are in progress in order to implement and operate the register of coaches, which will be accessible to all interested parties in the next period. Tenth, step by step of control of sports bodies. Establishment of an audit mechanism for carrying out correctness checks on the registered elements of sports clubs in the register regarding their activity and proper functioning. Eleventh, the evaluation system ‘HALON’. Counting, evaluating, improving. Update the system of assessment ‘CHALS’ and increase the weighting in good governance issues. For the first time, we are implementing a system that ensures dignity and transparency in the distribution of the state grant to all the sports federations in our country. Twelfth, Digital Paper 2020-2025. In the context of the digital transformation of sport and in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance and Information Society, we create an additional Register of Sports Entities for federations and Associations, Register of Distinguished Sportsmens, Register of Sport Infrastructures. It is also the extension of the 'POLOVA' that we have done with the CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u160	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u161	I'll be done. We create a Register of Supervising Entities, a Register of Financial Entities, a Register of Sports Regulations - Struggles of International Sports Federations, a Register of Sports Mediators, a Fashion Club Register, a platform for managing the "Sport for All". Thirteenth, spots - video messages, campaign via social media to promote messages to prevent violence and counter corruption and abuse in sport. The thirteen measures that we have presented will be implemented in the course of this year. Only exception is the Digital Bible, which will take more time. We are all working together, ladies and gentlemen, for a new, bright, modern, fair, transparent and democratic sports structure. Sports at the forefront.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u162	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, it is interesting what the Secretary-General said, but I would say that they do not have a direct relationship with the answer we have asked. Of course, everyone is judged on what he says from those who are watching us. However, I am obliged to say that the condemnation of what has been revealed in the field of sport - not only in the field of sport, in the field of art and in every workplace where such phenomena occur - is obviously an act of self-evident nature, but also without 'yes'. Equally self-evident is the total protection of these victims, but with the sole responsibility of the state, for all cases of sexual harassment or violence in themselves. It is very important, however, that the causes also emerge. The causes are obviously in this sport of today, which is sinking into sepsis and trade for the benefit of the powerful, who the New Democracy Government serves and legislates. All the rest, in our view, is well to be heard, but they have a minimal impact as long as the real causes are not hit. The government, like the previous ones, does not want the knife to reach the bone and serves individual responsibility. In other words, 'go out and report it'. It's not enough to go out and report it. The silence on economic and social conditions must be broken, forcing women to suffer what they have suffered and to be brought to silence as a whole. But, Mr President, the issues I raised were very specific, such as the relaunching of sport. The Undersecretary didn't say anything. The question is why two meters and two weights in categories with the same health protocols? Of course, every sport has its peculiarity. Others have physical contact, no more has. But here, we are talking about different categories of the same sport with the same health protocols. There is now all experience of safe opening. That is why we say that there must be immediate financing, that there must be additional staff, that there must be protection measures. Of course, Mr. Undersecretary, you do what the government does, of course, in all matters, when it does not want to be spent. I'll get as an example the snowfall we've had today. Every snowfall we baptize “sound weather phenomenon” and close the streets for what reason? Just to hide the enormous deficiencies in the area of civil protection, planning and infrastructure to satisfy basic people's needs. The same is true in sport with unacceptable positions that sport is an outbreak of infection, when in all the research and tests carried out so far in the field of sport, coronary positiveity does not exceed 0.5%. We can't keep the ball transmitting the coronary to Basket League and transmitting it only to the smaller categories. Similar to soccer and go by and say. The virus cannot be transmitted only to the small categories, that is, there is not much money. There may be no care for thousands of athletes and their families, when their survival depends on the sport of football, basketball, volleyball, etc. The government plays with their lives and rightly protests all this world. They also did their gathering in the Constitution with a single slogan: "Sport is life. Support him here and now," claiming the relaunch of sport activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u164	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u165	Finally, I will say the following topics: Do overreact your duties. You are invited to apply the provisions of the Law. 4726/2020, whereas these provisions do not concern municipal sports facilities, but public and private sports facilities supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports. You are even ignoring the Code of Municipalities and Communities, which says they grant sports facilities to clubs, to bodies of mass folk sport. Instead of asking for the state budget to grant the municipalities for the maintenance of the land belonging to them and granted to the national associations...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u167	Give me a little more time, because the Minister has raised a few issues, which I had objectively to address as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u168	Yes, but I am the president for the question, not for you to have a dialogue on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u169	Sure. I repeat, is this an insanity on the part of the government, on the part of the Minister? Why so much precursor to check the sports movement fully, the government, the Minister? The aim is obvious and has been systematically promoted for years by all governments: amateur sport, as a social asset, as a right of every worker, is not profitable and must be demolished,'sport - merchandise' must be shielded, that is to say, to clean up his sporting landscape, to put a lock on the clubs and to concentrate the sporting pie on a few, to those who are interested in investing and with the unloving. So here is what the government’s real targets are about the issue of sports facilities, about the issues of the sports register. There are issues of the arbitrariness and control sought by the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u171	In every way, Mr President, the government is directly required to take measures to strengthen sports clubs, to grant them subsidies and, of course, to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u172	You've been through the Minister in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u173	...to give the right to these unions to participate in the elections and to free them until they have their own register.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u175	Instead of three minutes, three years to give him, as you accidentally said at first, he would still not succeed in persuading even the close audience that the JRC has in the sports area. Because you don't know exactly what you're talking about, Mr. President. Because you're uninformed once again. Because you're coming here and you're removing the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u176	Mr. President, get it back. The fact that I don't know what I'm saying is unacceptable! Is that behaviour?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u178	I'm on it. I take the view that you have found the thirteen framework points extremely interesting that we announced just now. I hope, therefore, that when some of them are being discussed in Parliament, they will be voted on by you and not to keep this sterile opposition, the monologue you are saying, you say, and, in the end, nobody listens to you because, unfortunately, you do not know what you are saying. I'll answer you with arguments. So we come here and say: with Article 3 paragraph. 4 of Law 4726/2020 of the Ministry of Sports - keep notes, because you did not know what you were saying just before - which we voted on in September 2020, amended Article 8 of Law 2725/1999 and provided for the following: The General Secretariat of Sports is kept a register of specially recognised sports clubs. A sports club which does not bear the special athletic recognition and which has not been registered in the Electronic Register of Sports Associations referred to in Article 142 of L.4714/2020, may not use sports facilities belonging to public and private entities supervised by the General Secretariat. By Article 33(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance shall have jurisdiction to rule on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of First Instance. 2 of the same Law.4726/2020, determine the period from which and after that they will not be able to use the sports facilities of the supervised bodies of the General Secretariat of Sport, provided they are not registered in the Register. This period is six months from the publication of the FEK, so until 18 March 2021. Moreover - something that you are also ignorant of and I am sorry that you are uninformed and it is a shame to come here and not know what you are saying - with Article 66 paragraph. 2 of Law 4735/2020 of the Ministry of the Interior, dear Mr. Synchronakis, a legislative law that you ignore and I am sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u179	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u180	It was predicted that a sports club that does not bear the special athletic recognition of Article 8 of Law 4725/1999 and has not been registered in the online Sports Association Register under Article 142 of Law 4714/2020, cannot - says the Ministry of Interior in a adopted law that you are ignoring, I am sorry! - use sports facilities belonging to grades (a) and (b). This arrangement shall enter into force six months after its publication in the Official Journal of the Government. The law of the Ministry of Interior - which you are ignorant - was published on 12-10-2020 in the FEK. It shall therefore apply until 12 April 2021. On Wednesday, 3 February, I sent a letter to the municipalities throughout the country, reminding the two above obligations in the context of the principles of transparency and good administration. I did, in fact, point out that they have already been registered in the Registry of Sports Associations - then in the General Secretariat of Sports - four thousand twenty-two amateur associations and I called on the local government to join, informing those associations that they have not yet completed their registration, to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, we want all the unions to be legitimized. We don't want to exclude anyone. Instead, we want order and transparency to prevail in the sporting structure. We want households in sport and we help with all our powers so that as many unions as possible can be legalized. We didn't rule out anyone. But we have already announced - and this has escaped you - that, because of the conditions of the pandemic, we intend to give a reasonable extension to the above deadlines, so that everyone who wishes, that is to say, to join the state. We are already preparing in the bill, which has been consulted since Friday, a provision setting a time limit on 31 August. In other words, we give them a few more months until the end of the summer, so that the new season, from autumn onwards, begins unresolvedly and housed for all the unions that wish to join the state. We are asking everyone, municipalities, regions, administrations of National Sports Centres of the General Secretariat of Sports and club managers to help everyone in the household. You guys stay in the past. Besides, I see you in there and in percentages narrowed down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u182	But there's no reason now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u183	There is reason, because some of the expressions are challenging!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u184	Is it personal? I do not understand where the personal issue lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u186	It is another thing to say 'I disagree with you' or that 'you may have made a mistake or voluntary or involuntary hiding something' and it is another thing to say 'you don't know what's going on with you' or 'you don't know what you're saying'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u187	This is the Minister's. If the Minister says so, he has a responsibility. To say so, he knows. He says his opinion. I'm not her name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u188	So I have the right to say that they characterize the Minister as such.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u189	Please, this is not the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u190	They engrave his spirit and he's a spirit of evil human being. Let me say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-15-S1-commons.u192	With the consent of this House at 17:09 the sitting is closed tomorrow, February 16, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
