ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure: "Driving safely: Modernising a framework of training and examination of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, provisions on the driving of disabled persons, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". With everyone's consent and because of the problem that arose yesterday and we have many legislations then, I would ask that speaking time be six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, there are some legislative improvements. I think the best thing for the time economy - to earn some time - is to testify and not to read them in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u4	They will be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr Karamanlis. He will connect with us via Webex. Minister, bystander. That's what happens. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u6	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would just like for my part to inform the House that I am making some legislative improvements in the context of what I said yesterday in my speech. Also, as far as the amendments are concerned, the ministerial amendments are accepted: 1117 with the speed of the Ministry of Education, 1118 of the Ministry of Health, 1119 of the Ministry of Finance, 11120 of the Ministry of Labour. Finally, the parliamentary amendment is also accepted under a general number 1123 and a special number 32 by Mr Pappas. All other parliamentary amendments are rejected. Thank you very much. Let the pages in. 4-8
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u9	Minister, first of all, I wish you, too, ironic, strong. By the way, we should once again call on our compatriots to be vaccinated. It is something we are all asking for, something that we all want to do soon for the sake of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes in education and examination of candidate drivers are part of a comprehensive government planning to improve road safety. It is part of the Strategic Road Safety Plan 2021-2030 presented by the Prime Minister and the Ministers responsible in February last year, including the establishment of a National Road Safety Observatory, the improvement of the road network, the mandatory teaching of traffic education in schools, the revision of the Road Traffic Code, the digitisation of checks on its infringements and, of course, the improvement of the system leading to a driving licence. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a project aimed at reducing the dead and seriously injured by traffic incidents by 50%, because if deaths from road accidents in our country have been reduced to half in the last 10 years, from 2011 to 2020, we are even higher than the European average. Sixty-five dead per million inhabitants have Greece, fifty-one, with Sweden having the lowest negative record with twenty-two dead per million. But it's not just numbers. It is what we are reading that we are hearing and seeing that they are making necessary the implementation of this national plan, which - and this is a significant difference in relation to the past - will become a state law by means of actions which will be required by the relevant bodies. This draft law on driving tests has specific aims. First of all, to address the well-known phenomena of corruption and opacity in the current system by checking the identity of the candidates in two stages for participation in the theoretical examination, but also the sampling of the candidates when entering the examination centre, by audiovisual recording of the practical test carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the Personal Character Data Protection Authority, by remote supervision of the examiners by a committee, and by opening the body of examiners to more civil servants certified by the EPPO. With an ally of technology we bring more points to light and we open controls to hit off closed circuits. Also, the bill updates the content and process of theoretical and practical examination of the candidate guides with the adaptation of matter, so that they are even more friendly to people with disabilities, to our fellow citizens with learning difficulties, as well as to people who do not speak Greek. Using a table of subjects and questions for specific situations that require in-depth understanding of matter and not memorisation, with practical examination that starts from the knowledge of essential functions of the vehicle to the march on urban roads in real conditions, with the examiner next to the candidate and with the use of navigator, we prepare tomorrow's global drivers and essentially not fragmentary and mechanically. The new framework for driving licences, however, ladies and gentlemen, goes further, because, beyond the previous objectives, it aims to determine how to monitor compliance with the examination procedures and how the examiners will be assessed: by extending the register of examiners to which, as we have said, certified officials from the regions other than the Ministry of Transport and Communications can be registered, by training the examiners from the National School of Public Administration and Administration, by establishing a register of supervisors for the evaluation of examiners and the monitoring of the theoretical and practical tests. They are predictions that in turn increase transparency and prevent corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, with respect for time, I will only refer to other provisions relating to road transport. It is the single limit of the age of drivers of trucks and buses for public and private use, as well as drivers of school and tourist bus transporting students. It is the possibility that holders of a licence for lorries and buses of public and private use do not deposit the professional driving licence and continue to work as professional drivers. It is the 5% contribution to the annual gross receipts of the CBC for the renewal of the fleet and for the maintenance and upgrading of their infrastructure. It is facilitating the movement of imported vehicles to renew the taxi fleet. To close, ladies and gentlemen, what I think is worth keeping is the fourfold of road safety, to which the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, referred: safe roads, drivers responsible, traffic education and fair rules for all. The new system for obtaining a driving licence aims to prepare good drivers and the quality of the driver no doubt makes traffic treatment and behaviour. She is taught and learned early, by parents guides that children, school, the wider social environment. Because our traffic lawsuits are showing our social lawsuits. That's why they might get anti-social behavior on the wheel. So if we want to build drivers and not drivers of vehicles, we have a plan that moves on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Yannis Pappas has the floor, then Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis, in a natural presence, and then Mr. Cappatos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Wish our Minister good recovery. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me read to you some statistics, as has been published by the National Statistical Authority. Last August there were a thousand thirty wheels, seventy dead, seventy heavy wounded and a thousand seventy - seven slightly wounded. From January 2021 to last August six thousand six hundred sixty-one accidents on the roads have occurred with a tragic account of three hundred eighty-seven dead, thirty-sixty-sixty wounded, and close to seven and a half thousand lightly injured. The worrying thing is that these numbers are approaching 2019 numbers, when the coronary was not in our lives and there was no restrictions on circulation, as it is in the year that ends. I would like to submit to the minutes the data from the Hellenic Statistical Authority, tables and charts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Anyone who wants to be able to enter his cell and make a simple division, make the sad average, to find out the blood tax that Greek society pays in asphalt. Car crashes are a multifactorial phenomenon and it is the state's duty to try to influence all the factors in order to be able to limit them and wish all of us zero. The roads are constantly improved by projects that are done, Minister, and our aim is to ensure that drivers using them have appropriate training. All the above statistics, which are personally shocking, I mention them to highlight the substance of the 'Guide safely' draft law which we are debating today. For my part, I have to say a great deal of good work to the Ministry's leadership and, personally, to the Minister in charge of Costas Karamanlis who took this initiative and wish him good recovery again. Everything that's in place for the driver's licenses, we know. I can't believe any of us came from another planet. We all know that what happened to change and change radically. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill answers to all the questions that we all ask about what could change the tests and driving licences. A specific theoretical training approach and specific categories of candidates are introduced. Drivers who have not completed compulsory training, candidate drivers with learning difficulties and candidates who are deaf or heavy are facilitated by appropriate educational means. The theoretical examinations are upgraded with a topic bank and more frequent candidates' identity checks. The practical examinations are changed to ensure their integrity and, at the same time, with a legislative improvement submitted by the Minister, the instructor sits next to the driver and examiner back, contrary to the latest law of SYRIZA in 2019 that the instructor was not in his vehicle during the examination of his student. The practical test will be recorded in videos to ensure transparency and reliability of everyone and to avoid dark spots, there is written consent of the Personal Character Protection Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating has also been incorporated into amendments which are important to my own law, the Dodecanese, which I represent in these parliamentary seats. The first amendment tabled concerns private KEOs. KTEOs were founded, as we know, at the beginning of 2000. They were originally allowed to be set up in areas of general residence and town planning. Following protests by residents of these areas in 2008, and under Law 3710, these facilities were banned further in areas of general residence. In 2018, however, by Presidential Decree 59/2018, it is once again foreseen that in the event of an extension or revision of the town plan, one will be able to establish a KTEO in a area of general residence and indeed, without having to remove it, such as other facilities, since the founding law, the 59/2018, does not provide for removal. Although KTEOs have been classified as low-purpose installations, they do not cease to create within areas of general residence for traffic, noise, air pollution from exhaust control and many problems in neighborhoods. With the proposed amendment that I tabled and I thank the Minister for accepting it, we are reintroducing the ban on the establishment of KTEOs in areas of general residence and town planning. The existing KTEO functions should be removed from the date set by the legislator. The second amendment, which is the result of a fruitful dialogue and cooperation with the institutions and the competent State Secretary of State Michalis Papadopoulos, concerns the South Aegean region and is a matter that is directly linked to the region's economy and local society. It is the area that we all say 'the engine of the Greek economy' is the citizens, our islands, who face a series of difficulties. They are difficulties that have become greater because of the pandemic. But we are here to find solutions to problems and to make the daily lives of our fellow citizens easier and simpler. This amendment allows vehicles for public use from six to nine places. To tell you as simple as possible, there's gonna be a six-and-a-half taxi. This is a constant request from professionals in this sector in my area and I am glad that the pilot implementation of this possibility starts from the Dodecanese, from the southern Aegean. Compared change aims, if you like, to combat unfair competition by people who are active in the transport sector, but are not professionals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Mr. President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, finally with an amendment tabled by the Ministry, the provisional authorisation of the first water network is introduced, along with temporary permits for the operation of airports on a water surface, an emblematic project for the development of our islands, which was launched seven years ago by the Secretary of State Michalis Papadopoulos at the time of the Secretary of State, in 2014, and today by the same position, we have the pleasure and honour of starting its implementation by him. Continuing communication and cooperation so long as all actors, as well as the Southern Aegean Region and our Regional Administrator, are respected, in order to achieve this great project and are worth a lot of congratulations to everyone. A fourth amendment concerns the extension of age limits for the withdrawal of vehicles carrying out a 'KELS S.A.' transport project, especially open-ended tourist buses, public passenger transport and private passenger transport. It is important because those whose transport project expired from 1-1-2020 to 31-12-2022 are given an extension and can carry out their transport work until 31-12-2022. It is a request from the people of wrestling, the people who fight and work, but a request which, because of the pandemic crisis, cannot go ahead with changing their vehicles. With the fifth amendment, which concerns the granting of micro-symphony to our islands of less than ten thousand inhabitants, OTAs are given the opportunity to take on the first degree of transport on their island, whether on their own leased buses or to grant execution to third parties, provided that the vehicles are less than twenty-seven years old.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u12	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u13	Of course, Mr President. Finally, I would like to thank the commander of the PSC, Mr. Drichakos, who understood the issue and understood that we had a huge issue in the safety of airports operated by the PSC, and in particular at Karpathos Airport, the fifth international airport in the South Aegean region, which now all realizes that it cannot be conceived from the police parts of the island. It is important that they will now take care and security at the airport of companies, which will take the work from the same PSU and return the police officers to the departments to do the work they need to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u14	You've been in nine minutes since your time was six.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u16	We have the other bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u17	In conclusion, I would like to thank the ministers and say this: as far as the opposition is concerned, I think it is self-evident that what is provided for in this bill should take the vote of all three hundred Members. Road safety and dignity, ladies and gentlemen, are not subject to political controversy. They should be a field of consensus and proof that the interests of future generations can enter above the political benefit. It's a matter of life. Thank you very much, good day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis has the floor, and then Mr Panagis Cappatos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. May I, too, wish from this step by step to our Minister, quickly and painlessly, with the shield offered by the vaccine. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I will say that we want to sanctify and you really do not leave us. I heard your leader call on the Prime Minister to leave, he says, from the populism of the New Democracy and move to SYRIZA's right word. I would like to ask, Mr Giannoulis - unfortunately, Mr Pappas is not here yet - when you say the right word of SYRIZA you mean the word of Mr Polakis? Don't hurry. When you mean the right word of SYRIZA, to which Mr. Tsipras referred, to be followed by the Prime Minister in relation to the pandemic, do you mean the right reason as was articulated by Mr. Polakis? And, of course, I will not go into the works and days of Mr Polakis who was a transparent preacher of anti-vaccination until he was finally forced to be vaccinated. I will not go into the fact that Mr Paulakis and other Members of Parliament were present at the anti-vaccination symposium, when you were critical here in the Chamber. I will go to the only yesterday's post of Mr Polakis, the former Deputy Minister of Health, so I say that we want to sanctify and do not let us hear what he says: it proposes that the over sixty-five years should be vaccinated. So far it's doing well. The tutorial obviously and Mr. Tsipras' pressure got a place. Unfortunately, however, the post also has a follow-up: for the younger ones, Mr Paulakis says, in other words for the under-sixty-five, only those with underlying illnesses. What they say, that is, the prominent representatives of the anti-invasives too. Is that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your contribution to vaccination and crocodile tears that you come and pour here? And you dare say that the country cannot mourn New Democracy to seek votes in blurred waters? Do you really have that nerve? How long are you going to put water in the anti-vaccinist mill and come here to teach us? And I say all this firstly, because I was provoked, as the majority of society, by this post of the former Deputy Minister of State, but I was also provoked by the way your parliamentary representative, Mr Papapas, reacted yesterday because he says that you have no proposals. And is it true what your proposal is at last for the committee of joint acceptance scientists? And the fact that you are questioning and saying that you have a proposal isn't an insult to these scientists, which, as Minister Pilaris said, day and night and unwindledly offer their services over a year and a half? Tell us about you what the joint acceptance committee is? I challenge you to answer Mr. Pappas if he comes. You'll answer. What scientists? Who don't like you and you want to kick them out?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u20	It's Mr. Spirtz.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Spirtzis answer. So a little serious, Mr. Giannoulis. You're the rapporteur and the rapporteur, so as you can understand. As far as I am concerned, because this was a major issue for yesterday's debate here, and I will close with the issue of SYRIZA's vaccination and crocodile tears, if the committee agreed with the matter of the Church, because we heard some ten words from you, so I would ask you to listen to yesterday's radio interview with the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, Mr. Hendactylos, who said what? He said that it was the committee who proposed the measures and within these measures it was the matter of the Church. If you didn't hear it, I would invite you to hear it, because I think it's the most persuasive answer to all the things you came here to say. In any case, for the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, science is not judged by the parties. Science is judged by the scientific community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. And because Mr. Pappas said something about trains and that on your own account will be supported by railroads, I will say, live May to have a triple. Because if we wait for when you are going to form progressive governance, it will probably take many years for this place. But you know, when you come here and look at forty cardinals you talk about railroads, you should know what the anger of the people says at the house of the hanged man don't talk about rope. Because I imagine you'll remember that frame with "Silver Arrow". You had brought the "Silver Arlos", which we would have - says - Athens - Thessaloniki, Mr. Undersecretary, in three and a half hours, if I'm not mistaken. And of course, "Silver Arrow" left for his destination and, of course, TRAINOSE said there was no infrastructure to support another SYRIZA campaign. So a little contraction, a little respect, because you have a government past, you unfortunately have a government task. And people remember it and remember it, of course, very well in polls, which know what samples they give, one after the other. I'm going to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, a hundred and fifty thousand, so many candidates who were afflicted by the SYRIZA administration - ANEL to give tests and take the driving licence. Do you realize how many people, how many families, how many free professionals have been afflicted for a very long time because of the ideology and the inadequacy I shall say that was your government? Because, you know, usually when we focus on what SYRIZA inherited to the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we are referring mainly to the economy, your tax raid, your insurance raid, the abandonment of the agri-food sector, your hostility towards investment, but also important and unfavourable repercussions were on issues relating to the so-called daily life of the citizens. And driving licences are, indeed, such a matter of everyday life. So what has our Government, the Ministry of Infrastructure, done these months by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis? Of course, speaking to the Prime Minister, I cannot comment on what you said yesterday, Mr Giannoulis, that Mr Mitsotakis, you said from Stepa, "is the most inactive Prime Minister". I fully understand and sympathize that you want to hit the strong card of this government, which listens to the name of Prime Minister Mitsotakis. But honestly find something a little more convincing. Because these arguments you make here in the National Representation do not convince SYRIZA fans either. And I'm explaining. Greek-French agreement, Mitsotakis project. He is positively faced with 48% of SYRIZA's fans, that is, your majority. Greek-American agreement, Mitsotakis project. It is treated positively by 45% of SYRIZA's fans, and here is the majority. And of course, Mr Mitsotakis, the most appropriate Prime Minister, is before Mr Tsipras. So think of something else for opposition. So what did the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure do? After he normalized the situation, and how did he get it done? It took your law back inapplicable, empty shirt, on the one hand, and on the other hand proceeded to a thorough study of the systems in other countries, the advanced Europe, Sweden, Italy, and, on the other hand, an extensive physical dialogue with the bodies that, as you have seen, were weakly involved in the hearing by the institutions, supported this legislation, this bill. The target was set by the Prime Minister himself, when the New Democracy was in opposition, Great Tuesday was 2017. Just before the exit of Easter excursions began, he said that road safety is high in our political priority and the aim of our strategic plan is to reduce by 50% road accidents over a decade. I should of course like to mention the important work carried out by my joint minister, Kostas Karamanlis, and I would also like to mention the effort which the Minister himself mentioned yesterday, which was done by the predecessor, Mr Giannis Kefloyannis, on this matter, and of course now the new Deputy Minister of State Michalis Papadopoulos. We have this road safety bill here. So what is this draft law doing? Obviously the upgrading of the candidates' theoretical and practical training, the bases for traffic and road culture, the strengthening of transparency and credibility. How is transparency and credibility strengthened? Of course, by tightening controls on the theoretical examinations, with the identity of two stages, with the sampling, with the audiovisual recording of the practical test, with the - but not, of course, self-evident for you - respect for personal data. Because we, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are in agreement with both the general regulation of 2016/679 on the protection of personal data and the applicable law of 2019. And I say this as yet another proof that this government shows a high degree of responsibility for everything that touches the citizens' personal sphere, while at the same time being able to ensure legality and the imposition of controls and the necessary rigour, of course, as opposed to you and the failed and practically inapplicable Law 4599, which, apart from other things, directly violated the legal provisions on the protection of personal data, you, who are usually those defenders of personal data, have also received this opinion from the Protection Authority. So we come and keep personal data four and six months respectively, that is to say, the reasonable time, not ten years and real time, which you predict, which clearly violates personal data and something which, of course, does not respect the right to oblivion, the right to the relevant regulation and the relevant law and which you obviously ignore. Let us say, of course, that as the Protection Authority writes in its related report, the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure since July 2020 has been in consultation with the beginning and from March 2021 - now we have November - had sent the relevant draft law. Well, I'll say, "Greaty, order, respect." This draft law strengthens transparency, objectivity and reliability, which certainly lay the most solid foundations for road safety building, and it is obviously served by the Examination Register, in which I am in passing becoming a sort of liberation of a relatively closed profession - function. This enlargement, in addition to opening up a profession, actually comes to serve the citizen. Why does it serve the citizen? Because it essentially contributes to avoiding delays and seeks to restore normality and regularity. Enlargement, of course, with relevant training to break circuits and closed establishments. Transparency which also means a subject-table bank and an update every two years, which means an upgrade of theoretical education. Reliability and impartiality also with the institution of the Register of Supervisors, in which, as has been said by the rapporteurs, ELAS, Municipal Police, porters may participate. And, of course, transparency in the control system is strengthened by the unfamiliar Committee on Supervisory and Objection, both on a sample and on the objection of the opposition candidate. Obviously, it is undeniably in the right direction to provide for the monthly compensation of the examiners and supervisors who do this work out of time and out of overtime. The bill, however, proves in practice, ladies and gentlemen, and the social sensitivity of this government, the social sensitivity of the New Democracy. The social sensitivity of this bill is reflected both in the self-evident respect for personal data, which I have detailedly referred to, but also in the provision of specific theoretical examinations for citizens with special educational needs, deaf, hard, and in the creation of so-called evaluation centres, their Immigrants, to relieve the world of unnecessary suffering and bureaucracy and economic bleeding. Because the Government of New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, does indeed prove to serve the principles and positions of an inclusive society. And because there has been a lot of talk from both the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and from the rapporteur, and, of course, from the speakers about the so-called secondary legislation in this bill we are debating today, I will say this. The bill, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is undeniably solid and complete, without any legislative gaps and shortcomings. I'm just going to make a comparison because you're taking and coming here and you're blaming secondary legislation. In any case, the legislative work that you had carried was, almost exclusively, regulated by secondary legislation, because fifteen articles had everything on road safety - that was the content of the draft law - and it had fourteen authorizing provisions, that is, as much as the number of articles. In fact, references to the law, which basically came from the much more specific framework of the licensed YA and CYA, were general. Therefore, to end this debate with the infamous secondary legislation. The bill is solid, it is complete, and the reference through the authorizing provisions is a purely update of a legislative framework that we know we are voting on today. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the political will is a given one. Scientific processing has been carried out, hearing the bodies, the draft law has been captured on the basis of the previous ones. What is needed is a change of mind, and so, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution of all the political forces is more valuable and given, but without a yes, but, as unfortunately is seen within, but also outside, of course, of this House from opposition to the major issue of vaccination. Why, after all, what do we often hear in public debate? The statistics of our fellow citizens who are unjustly lost by a coronary are compared to the statistics of car victims. In the case of New Democracy neither are they accepted. We are doing and will do what is humanly possible to save, protect human life, and in this attempt to ensure road safety and reduce, eliminate road accidents no more. I close by quoting a phrase that the teacher from Slovenia, Marianna Kratsu, said, a happy mother, when she lost her 20-year-old son in a car accident. He said: "Yesterday the car crashed to them. Today it happened to us. We do not want it to happen tomorrow to you." Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Arabatzis. So that there is no misunderstanding, because a colleague of mine showed me the time, Mrs Arabatzi is a Parliamentary representative and used dentistry as well, and she has not exceeded the seconds of other parliamentary representatives at all. Let's make it clear there's no misunderstanding. I have the honour to inform the House of the news of Friday 5 November, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 113/29-10-2021 topical question by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The assignment of OAS cleanliness passes to contractors and five hundred workers into unemployment". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 123/1-11-2021 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Restoration of the damage caused by "Janus" to Karditsa and the flooding protection of the region". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Socrates Famelou, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Socrates Famelou, Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: “The problem of fire protection in the Sheikh – You are being swelled by unauthorized and responsible confrontations”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 125/1-11-2021, a topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Let the persecution be stopped against journalist Nikos Boyopoulos". 3. The question by No 121/29-10-2021 of the Greek MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon, a crime was committed against the environment and biodiversity". 4. The question asked by MP Evia of the Communist Party of Greece, George Marino, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "No involvement of Greece in the imperialist planning, the closure of US bases, the non-shipping of Greek armed forces in Sahel, Africa, returning the philory Patriot from Saudi Arabia and all the military departments of imperialist missions abroad." 5. Under number 130/1-11-2021, a timely question by SYRIZA MP, Mr. Andreas Michaelides, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "True delays and shortcomings in the contribution of the earthquakes of Samos". 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Extreme problems of housing and operation of the public tourist professions of Heraklion Crete". Mr. Cappatos from New Democracy has the floor now and immediately after Mr. Kegeroglu from the Change Movement. Mr Kegeroglu precedes, but because of his service, he has given his order. Mr. Cappatos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when a draft law on safe driving comes to a debate in the House of Greeks, we can only say about the seriousness and importance of such a debate. We can only agree that education, theoretical examination, the practical testing of candidate drivers and vehicle driving licences are parameters of an overall policy that we do not find indifferent. With the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport bill covering these parameters, we have summarised four main objectives, in which the legislation is moving. The first objective is to upgrade the training of the candidate drivers so that they are better prepared to go on the road the day after receiving the driving licence. The second objective is to increase transparency in order to bring the brake to a brake on corruption. The third relates to the priority of ensuring the soundness of the examination process. Finally, the promotion of road safety by means of acts and not simple declarations implied this legislation as a whole. In more detail, we are attempting to modernise the educational material, the trial procedure, with a view to promoting the country's road safety. This intention is achieved both through the development of a modern framework of theoretical and practical education and examination of the candidate drivers and by the definition of a system of monitoring procedures and evaluation of examiners. In more detail, this draft law introduces a new threshold of seventeen years for the monitoring of theoretical and practical education, as well as the possibility of driving with any potential drivers who have completed this age limit and successfully complete the practical process. There is also provision for specific theoretical training for specific categories of candidate drivers, as well as the provision of the questionnaires for the theoretical examinations in the Greek sign language. Subsequently, practical training courses are available for new technology vehicles, and the practical test framework is updated. Finally, the issue of vehicles of historical interest has a special place in the bill that we are voting on today. In practice, the legal framework for such vehicles shall be streamlined and simplified at the same time as their exact number shall be recorded through their electronic registration. Allow me here to make a special reference to the amendment on matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The last meeting of the Municipal Council of Argostoli had as the only issue of discussion the state of health in our prefecture and the functioning of the General Hospital of Kefalonia. With the mayors of the four municipalities of our prefecture, the municipal councillors of Argostoli, as well as the representatives of doctors and personnel who serve in health at our place, we have converged in two main conclusions that health, especially at the time of our pandemic, is a good thing that our obligation is to support with all our forces, that health structures in Kefalonia and Ithaca work effectively for the benefit of the inhabitants and visitors of our island only with stable medical staff and, of course, that the ITH must function. The equipment and the new wing of the Argostoli Hospital are the main object of a large donation to the National Health System from the legacy of Georgiou and Maris Vergoti, amounting to 10 million euros in 2010. Although the Greek State has committed itself with the acceptance of the donation to serve the IF and put it into operation, it has never honoured its signature in the last eleven years. I would like to raise this point again today so that tomorrow it will no longer be too late. Returning to the amendment that we are voting on today, it answers to some extent the demands that both the competent bodies and our local society have made, the extension of the proceeds of newspaper compensation of EUR 250 per on-call from anesthesiologists and doctors with pathology and pneumonology specialists is an exemplary example of support for first-line doctors, with these specialities raising particular weight in the battle against the extension of COVID -19. It is an arrangement that is both fair and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to discuss a draft law by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport gives me, as a Member of the Kefalonia and Ithaca, an excellent opportunity to highlight the crucial presence of the Ministry in a number of problems that have arisen in our prefecture since the coming of both the Mediterranean Cyclone 'January' in September 2020 and the most recent disasters caused by the bad weather of 'Blue'. The noticeable presence, the immediate response and effectiveness of the state mechanism in disasters such as this in the past were reasonable, but not self-evident. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Delays, inconsistency and a number of contents took place at the same time as the need to restore the damage was imperative. In the case of the last few years, the image I have described belongs happily to the past. The directity of our cooperation with the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure from the start of my parliamentary term until today deserves to be pointed out. Of course, this is not a fragmentary relationship, but it is an important part of the whole of our joint effort, an effort involving officials from the ministries, the Ministers for Infrastructure and Transport, the Interior, Maritime, Economic and Political Protection and, of course, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself. Since the first day of the event of the problems I mentioned, the interest of the Prime Minister and his environment was decisive in the development of things. I am sure that this cooperation will remain stable in the resolution of any outstanding issues that are on the way. After all, this is the most sure way of bringing us safely to the clearing of the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill after more than two years, although the government was committed to directing the committee in September 2019, within six months it would bring a bill that would provide solutions and improve matters in the area of driving licences and, more generally, in matters relating to security. We have placed ourselves with our rapporteur and the parliamentary representative positively in most of the provisions of the bill, but the act will show whether the bill will not remain a theoretical one, at least to its positive side. I consider it necessary to improve matters, first of all, about all the seventeen ministerial decisions envisaged, not to be adopted in the context of a bureaucratic process, but after consulting the institutions, to come for information to Parliament's respective committee. I think that this is very critical, because from the content of the ministerial decisions it will be decided whether the positives contained in the bill are implemented. The second condition for improving matters is finally to standardise services on a pan-Hellenic scale. The model, I would say, of the Transport Service of Heraklion Prefecture of Crete, which, with the cooperation of the Institute of Technology and Research and much earlier even with the digitisation of the archive that we started with public works in 2011, as far as the standardisation of services is concerned, should go to all the services in the country. But that's not good enough either. Nor, in other words, the electronicisation of procedures, appointments and all the necessary staff are needed. It may not be at the discretion of each regional, district or secretary of the region, the power to have two, three or ten employees. Depending on the population of the regional unit, minimum standards should also be laid down for the number of staff. This is a necessary cooperation which, regardless of whether self-government and the region are independent, is being implemented by the public service in this case. It performs a contract between the central state and the region. Therefore, the agency must have specific specifications. I consider this to be very serious. It varies, depending on the regional director and the Vice-President, the importance attached to the issue of safety, the issue of driving licences and, of course, not only the other services provided by the Transport Directorate. I would also say, in Heraklion, that I have my own knowledge, that things are very well and, therefore, I am not talking about the prefecture, but I am putting it as a model of comparison with other cases, which I have the same perception. At last, therefore, standardisation of operating standards for services, minimum technology equipment and minimum staff per department. We are therefore voting in favour, but with all these remarks we make and I repeat on the condition that the draft ministerial decisions after consultation will come for information, at a meeting of the competent Standing Committee of Parliament. I now come to the issue of pandemic and because there is an amendment to it, but also because of the debate that is developing. Look, it's a phony of tough or soft action. It's a fake. The hard ones and the loose ones. The appropriate scientific measures. Only these and with single rules, without exceptions and rosés, can yield. I would even say that, since the state, the government, and the parties - and if you like, the parties - have specific questions to answer these questions from the Scientific Committee. Nothing less, nothing more. As far as pandemic is concerned, and as long as confrontation becomes polaristic and acutely unresolved, we do not give solutions. So we must also see where the government has failed - and that is why we are discussing it, because if it had been achieved we would not have discussed it - dealing with specific issues or dealing with specific issues, and where opposition is a barren confrontation. Let them go and see, because they are critical situations and we have many problems that do not have other countries, how to deal with them. Even in the extensions given in the relevant amendment, I do not understand the misery that prevails. There have been seven extensions, when the government in a single decision told us that by March 2022 I think there will be restrictive measures in one way or another. So it would have to give extensions by March 2022. It does not, however, give them up for the specific amendment we are voting on, and it extends until 31 December, as if things had changed in New Year's day. The government's perception of this is miserable. I think that everything should go for the RESEMA, at least until 31 July, and in any case for the Pan-Hellenic Blind Association. You can't tell them you'll be coming over this New Year to do election procedures because things won't get better. You can't do that. For the Pan-Hellenic Blind Association - I say it for him in particular - it should go until 31 July. And a word, Mr. Karayannis, since you are here, about the earthquakes and the earthquakes of the Municipality of Minoa, the plains of Asterousia, the Prefecture of Heraklion. Very positive the evolution with your decision to establish a service. I would prefer it not to be an area, of course, but to be an integrated service, because problems are many. This service must be installed on site. There are infrastructures, there is a proposal to settle on site. We already have problems and need to be resolved by recording the damage. Secondary committees face similar or similar situations in a different spirit. This has created concern and uncertainty in the local society as to whether it is the result of an objective crisis that is green or yellow. That is why we need to see a flexible procedure to deal with such problems. We have problems with the criteria, the rules and the cuts. The hundred and fifty squares have slaughtered people who have houses and shops...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u26	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. Which happens at the store to have a large storage space and, unfortunately, problems like this. We have problems with both businesses and workers. It is not your object, but a message must be given to the Ministry of Finance. It has not given you any extensions to the submission of VAT on periodic situations. In other words, time limits are required for damaged companies to submit data which they cannot submit. In six months, therefore, extensions had to be included. I conclude by saying that it is not possible for individual aids to be granted. The reconstruction plan needs to be organised. The plan to be multi-operational, to make use of all the parameters and, of course, finally to complete the groundwork on which the region will be reconstructed. The Arkalochori town plan, which needs a signature, has not yet been approved - I say it again - nor has the spatial plan been commissioned rather than entered the daring procedures of the contract notice and will take six months to be a contractor. Mercy! Assign it now. But you assign so much as a government, uh, what is urgent, you don't assign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantine Blouchos has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr. Pericles Mantas. Come on, Mr. Blucho.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu's speech is useful and fertile today. You will allow me to say only a word about the Gennamata Fofi, the unique and enviable dignity with which she has managed her personal problem. It is an example of both political and wider society. Good power I wish her familiars. Ladies and gentlemen, every legislative effort to modernise the system of education and examination of traffic education is legitimate and positive, at least in the first place. I followed the work of the National Road Safety Committee, particularly at the second meeting where the bodies had the floor. It seemed to me that the speech of medical emergency departments was missing. That's why Mr. Kelles had to use him any chance. No one referred to the result of poor road education, the result of the lack of education in urban and long-term mobility faced by an emergency newspaper doctor. The blood statistics of the Greek Police between 1991 and 2019 reports forty - three thousand dead and sixty thousand seriously injured by automobile. I mean, in less than thirty years, a city like mine disappears like Drama. In addition, in less than thirty years a city like neighboring Kavala consists of paraplegic or quadruple patients, burdening at an inaccurate rate the National Health System and our insurance system. But the worst thing about all the victims of the dead and badly injured, the vast majority are young people who will not work again, will not create, give birth, only be the object of a lamentation. I do not wish this to an enemy of what I and other fellow surgeons have often been called to the emergency services to announce to the TIPs on our newspapers that a parent's child has come to the point that the hospital's TIP has come to remind us of a slaughterhouse where an agonizing and superhuman rescue attempt was made. It has been said, ladies and gentlemen, by a representative body that in addition to modernising and updating the process of teaching driving and examining driving skills and competence, we need to ensure the possibility of a permanent feedback. 'No', therefore, in the consolidation of procedures which are permanently in response to a close or distant yesterday, but 'yes' in ensuring the legal insurance system in a permanent and whole-lived today. And today, to be alive, ladies and gentlemen, it has to do with education of conscience, consciousness of humanity, consciousness of love in life and fellow citizen. We need training of conscience so that we understand in every second that what we love most, the most valuable faces and our goods are at risk of being lost for no reason without warning. I should now like to speak about the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health yesterday with particular interest and attention to the position of the former Minister of SYRIZA. He spoke about the amendment, but rather without talking about it, to conclude that the crisis of the National Health System is a crisis of staff at the moment and of morality. On the other hand, I now welcome the amendment by the Ministry of Health, which is the product of fruitful and effective cooperation with the leadership, which clearly aims at in terms of serious incentives now and at restoring the sense of law with regard to the medical world of the HSH, and whose necessity was necessary and will restore functional problems and imbalances, that is to say, to a large extent, to normalise clinical practice, particularly in provincial hospitals, the structures of our region which have been suffering from chronic and unresolved problems. More specifically, because there was no special emphasis on this, Mr Xanthos was left only in relation to the management of the surplus vaccine reserve, how the government, the Ministry and the last article of the amendment on compulsoryity, and we had to call on all of us here to call on our colleagues in health who have not been vaccinated that they should be vaccinated and must come back because they are missing from their work, we are missing them from our patients. The main points made in this amendment are, in particular, the doctors of the ESS who are now moving to meet on-call needs in the regional hospitals suffering from hypotension. We're talking about barren positions and barren specialties. All of these, apart from the extra wages more than their monthly earnings will be paid for every day of noninvention, they will receive 250 euros in their newspapers. The movement will now also involve subsidiary doctors, i.e. all specialist doctors from the National Health System. To know what this is all about. This solves the decisions to move and manage human resources. We know that a lot of refusal is being answered, while, on the other hand, the choice of imminent movement runs counter to a reluctance with regard to our fellow Members, so I believe that a large part of this will be approached in the best possible way. Private physicians of specific specialties, i.e. those of the critics at the moment when they are in battle and war against pandemic, such as anesthesiology, pathology, pneumonology and any other cases, and there are these unpaid gaps in our provincial hospitals to ensure that the invention is covered with 250 euros per on-call. The most important thing that this particular amendment introduces, which concerns our already existing colleagues who are overreacting, who are making additional on-calls because they meet needs as long as there are no cover for these specialities, is that this over-information, 24-hour, will be compensated for at EUR 250 in each on-call. In addition, significant efforts are being made in relation to the second specialization. Some colleagues who could, because they did not say this, who want to make the second specificity of anesthetics, have an absolute flexibility in the amendment that is being tabled. And, of course, the great necessity with regard to the issue of the hospitals, which is the biggest problem at the moment in the management of the hospitals, because in the absence of basic skills, particularly anesthetics, is creating a terrible void and a great problem. The management proposed here will solve practical problems which seem to be unresolved. And of course, if the advent of this wave takes explosive dimensions rather asymmetrical that will deplete the reserves of the ESS, which clearly no eagle can claim to be inexhaustible, it is self-evident and in all acceptable to adjust and reorder our health powers, public and private, to search for any services and private clear but able to offer functionally. What does that practically mean? It means that in each health region our forces are reconstructed and transported where conditions so require, namely in our hospital structures. And because we will still manage a real crisis of exaggeration, I would like to get over the enclosures in cheetah and exodus politicians who are easily employed in here all of us. And I wonder what we have achieved. Truly, how serological, conceptual, that is, it is wasted in a critical and useful concept of public health! This waste is also being wasted because we are constantly being ambushed in logic and self-evident and not occasionally but constantly and systematically by some people, and especially when we in Parliament are constantly digging into terms of populist acrobaticism or malignancy. Negative words, remarking on our main aim, which is how we can unravel our trapped people from the sad misinformation and irritation of irrationality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I wonder what we are hearing in this Chamber and we are not in danger of losing dignity with such rhetoric, for example: 'Fascism to take measures to protect public health'. Clearly unpleasant and very clearly for some unbearable or inefficient, but fascism? And we are not all talking together about the specific fascism of irrationality, about the trapping of a large portion of our fellow citizens' population in absurdity and all about a specific environment, the very same of modern Greek culture and the same trait of idiosyncratic culture of many of you, the one of eroticism, literacy. So, in our political outburst, let us add the always existing and mobilized dormant scientific heresy which found unbelievable ground and created addiction as an imminent and delimited multi-level crisis over illusions and false dilemmas, entangled in over-simplifications for good reasons. [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] In conclusion, Mr President, I do not know whether this can be called into question by anyone, honesty in Lenin's policy is the result of power and hypocrisy of weakness. No theology of gifts and of discrimination. Not all apostles, not prophets, not all teachers. This special outburst seems invincible and any campaigns of persuasion that some in here hide behind them are failing on the multi-level...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Comrade, you've been in ten minutes. It's unfair to everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u32	We agree, but there must also be an equilibrium in time. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna Michailidou, to support it under number 1120/29-10-2021. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are tabling an amendment to allocate school meals throughout the country until the competition procedure of the competent contracting authority, namely the OPEKA, has been completed. Especially this year should not be delayed and should not be delayed for three main reasons. It's a great provision. It is a provision that is in terms of the timing of the problem in the years of its allocation by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government, but especially this year that the financial consequences of the pandemic have mostly affected the most vulnerable households, there is no space and no time to delay their distribution. The second reason that must go beyond the importance of the food itself for our children is that this regulation is of an exceptional and temporary nature. The temporary nature is just until the conclusion of the competitive process. What does that mean? It is up to the Court of Auditors' decision which is pending - I would remind you that the department responsible met just the day before yesterday to continue the proceedings of the Court of First Instance and of the decisions of the Court of First Instance. And, if you want, if the experience of all these years is our guide to the portion of the court's decisions, that's what we're afraid of is something that, like all previous years, will draw. We do not want to pull like in 2017, 2018 and 2019 until May, especially in this year when the financial impact of the pandemic is particularly afflicting the most vulnerable households, so we are going through this amendment as necessary. The third reason is that we do it because the whole story of the competition pleads for our decision. And what do I mean, advocates our decision? On 21 June, the Proceedings Review Authority, GDP, found a specific condition of the declaration to be fully legitimate on a comprehensive and comprehensive basis. Secondly, on 31 August two decisions of the court of appeal will ratify the decision I have just read. Thirdly, the Secretary-General of the Court of Auditors on Tuesday, which has just passed us, namely on 2 November, has recommended the acceptance of the request for the withdrawal made by OPEKA, that is to say, that the signing of the contracts is not prevented. I would like to respond to the SYRIZA amendment that we are not accepting. What does SYRIZA say and why do we not accept his amendment? It says: Reopen the tender and until the new competitive process is over, go in accordance with the procedure of direct awards to the former contractors. I answer, and I really do answer well, and I don't know if I should. First, give it to the contractors. Who are the previous contractors? The 2020 contractors. And, to be honest with that, we started that the amendment that we are passing will give the 2020 contractors meals. This, however, has three main problems. Firstly, there are new departments in the competition because we wanted to strengthen the institution of school meals, we took out new departments, new municipalities, two hundred sixty-eight new schools to strengthen the most vulnerable across Greece. So there are new departments that had no contractor before. That means: Who will be the contractor and, above all, what will be the price that we will be imposing on the new contractor? Secondly, there are section combinations. In our competition to make the procedures more rapid, we made divisions together so that we don't have any divisions and take more time for the competitive process, as well as for the procurement department itself. Thirdly, a previous 2020 contractor may not or may not want to participate in this process, so while the delegation to the 2020 contractors is something that we thought about, and to tell you that that is where we started, it is something that is practically not done for these three reasons. And to be absolutely honest, we could say that at 1%, we can give a small chance, we could find a solution to all of these three parameters. However, this solution would certainly have extra delays. To bring all the contractors to the table, to see who will get filled with the new sections, what will happen with the combinations and what happens where a contractor may not have the ability to give meals this year, there would definitely be delays. There the risk for us is that meals will be given immediately. And here I would like to present to the minutes of the House what happened in the competition we received in 2019 where for more than twenty municipalities the distribution of meals reached up to 15 May. In other words, with the last competition from the previous government received by us - if you like, we inherited - and we had to make the distribution on the basis of this, they went to the children a month before the schools were closed. So that's what I'd like to do the first thing I'd like to do to the House. Now, second part of the amendment is that we give meals not to the 2020 contractors, which I explained the three reasons why it is very difficult to give them as 2020 contractors even if that is where we started, is what we give meals to those we want. The second practice I would like to present to the House is where meals are now being given in the 2021 OPEK competition and where meals were given in the 2019 OPEK competition of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. What do we see there? In particular, eighteen out of twenty of a contractors are exactly the same and I will testify to them. So we're doing all of this to give it to ourselves. Who's the same? The inherited. Thirdly, in any case we do not accept the SYRIZA amendment because it calls for a resumption of the competitive process. We say that the reopening of the tender must be the last solution, because the procedure is currently in the Court of Auditors. On Tuesday, it started in the section where, as I said, the recommendation from the Commissioner-General of State was positive in terms of the OPEKA, and we also do not need to pre-empt and pre-paid the Court of Auditors, which is an independent judicial authority, where you have a parliamentary role and we have a government role. So no matter how much the opposition may have wanted to be the Court of Auditors, it's not. We don't have to pay him back. There are steps. Reopening the tender means at least six months late. So we're going to a state of 2019 where the kids will get lunch again in May. Now, the problem of school meals our government has understood it since the very beginning of the ministry. And why am I saying that? I took this position in July 2019, where the competitive process had already been almost completed by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government for meals, which had started in May, 15 May. He had started too late. What did that mean? It meant that the successful distributions then started 2 November, the day before. I repeat the successful distributions. The others had the following characteristics, i.e. the 2019 tender created by the previous government, had the following three features: Firstly, he had contractors' discrepancies much more than the 2021 competition. In other words, in this House, the OPEKA minutes that the previous 2019 competition was restrictive to potential contractors and excluded more - that is, more small and medium-sized enterprises - from being excluded from the competition. I do. Second element: As regards the final contractors between 2019-2021 - before we talked about the final contractors 2020-2021, which were eighteen and twenty-one themselves - the SYRIZA - ANEL competition and the NL competition were the same by seventeen out of twenty-one. I mean, we're still doing this to give it to the inherited. So the very same 82% are contractors, more excluded than the previous competition and very substantial delays. What do I mean? That the Municipalitys of Avdiron, Marathon, Pikermio, Xanthi, Painter, Byron, Kessarianis, Trikkaion, Thermaikos, Galatius, Dramas, Oreokastro and Pellas received 6 March meals. The municipalities of Aegialia, West Achaia, Lesvos, Corinthia, Tripoli received 15 May meals with this competition. And here I want a minute to apologize, Mr. Giannoulis, for the time, if I'm abusing him. So that errors will not be made, and similar problems of delay, what have we done with the time we entered into? We had this competition that had these problems, most problems of delay, because the allocation problems were exactly the same as those we have now. What are we doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u34	But please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u35	We are making an extension of the competitive procedure by six months by making an entirely legitimate use of Article 132 of Law 4412 to give six more months to the SYRIZA - ANEL contractors. Why? Not because they are ours or yours, but in order to take meals to the children and then have a six-monthly competition to cover the needs until more complete preparation is made of the tender that will allow for the uninterrupted and effective distribution of meals. And here I close with this: What does it mean to be unavoidable and effective distribution of meals that this competition has secured? It means distribution to more where there is a need, in twenty-six more municipalities, twenty-five thousand more meals, 25% higher budget in a very difficult year. It means more schools, in other words, two hundred sixty-eight more schools. It means faster. This is why a two-year optional competition takes place, so that a second and third year starts meals on the first day of school when the school bell rings. And it means more effectively, that OPEKA officials should once and not three times deal with this whole piece of supplies, which is administratively flooding their daily lives. So we go to more schools, to more kids, with a higher budget, with a quicker start-up process and more effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u36	Madam Minister, please complete. You've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u37	It is a one-way for the regular and efficient distribution of meals. Thank you very much and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Only please don't go. Perhaps the rapporteurs should ask for some clarification in your amendments. Please, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. My question is not addressed to Mrs Michailidou. It is addressed to the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, which is one of the two co-legislative ministries responsible for the law on public procurement. And I ask him whether the position and acceptance of the amendment tabled by Mrs Michailidou has a vote - a vote - which respects European legislation. In other words, Minister, you are honestly assigned to do what you want - we are used to it - but do not even say it from the Step of the House. For God's sake. The country will be convicted. Don't you understand? It is a disgrace to the country what is being done. Is it reasonable that we have a competition - leave the Ministry of Labour - and the seventeen are the same as the nineteen? Really? Is that reasonable? Are you ever going to run a competition in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u40	The Minister will explain. Madam Minister, would you like to provide clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u41	Mrs Michaelidou is not responsible for the public procurement law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u42	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u43	It is the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of Economy and Development, which is missing Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u44	Can we sum up the questions, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u45	You want to say something, Mr. Giannoulis, in addition? But please don't repeat Mr. Spirtzis' development. Please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u46	No repetition will be made, Mr President. First of all, I agree entirely with Mr Spirtzi's approach. I wanted to say to Mrs Michalidou that the object she comes to support today does not fit small, even spoonfuls, such as 'the SYRIZA - ANEL Government'. What we have clearly in front of us, Mr. Michailidou, is that school meals are not executed. That's undeniable. It is the reality that we are experiencing today. And I ask you this: with the worsening of indicators and because of the pandemic, with the increasing needs and the children who constitute - let us say it - the beneficiaries of a policy, which, however deceptively or politically, you are trying to cut it down, was carried out. The children had access - family children in need - to school meals. Don't play with words. Don't play under the terms. Don't play with the concepts. At the moment, this programme is because of your bluntness or your pillowing over the three-year duration and what you have admitted 'we will give it to where we want' - you said 'we will give it to where we want' - it will be interpreted, as everyone can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u47	Good. He'll explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u48	My question is this: to the families who see us and listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Spirtzis said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u50	Unfortunately, you, too, come to anti-SYRIZA hysteria that it is all the previous governments and SYRIZA to blame. Can you give them a time answer? You choose to give them where you want. We get it. When?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u51	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u52	Do not use case tricks, as we increase it to twenty-five municipalities at the same time as it has been frozen for all of Greece. It's inconceivable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u53	The desire from the Change Movement has also been announced, and then the Minister will take the floor. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor for the answer as a whole to the Minister. Invite, Minister, unforeseen events that have not allowed competitive procedures to take place. Did not the competent authorities know that they had to run the school meal program, which we understand is necessary at this juncture to help and support families affected by the prolonged health and economic crisis or under the pretext of pandemic we permanently continue the derogating procedures of awards, commissions, works and other procedures that have to do with the public and private sectors? We therefore want a convincing answer because we do not have the right competitive procedures again. Another question is this: The report by the General Accounting Office of the State does not include the cost of the project. What's it after all? Is that what you said and mentioned in a press release? And why he did not refer to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you too, Mr. Goka. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin, Mr President, with your last question, which is a reasonable one. The explanatory statement does not mention the cost, because it is exactly zero, which is what has been foreseen in the original OPECA tender. So there is no change in the budget. The costs that OPECA had foreseen for the awarding and distribution of meals to temporary contractors - which are no longer temporary, are final ones, are they? - it's what's going to follow. So, that's why my Ministry of Finance's DG didn't make any changes to the budget, it's just the same. Now, I would like to say a little bit about being a non-legislative to Law 4412. SYRIZA's amendment is illegal. Why is it illegal? Because he's going to make an extension of non-existent contracts. SYRIZA's amendment falls on article 132 of Law 4412. Article 132 speaks of contracts already in existence, which are already in progress. The 2020 contractors are contractors who stopped their allocation and their contracts in June 2021, in which case Article 132 shall not be used. What does Article 132 say? As long as this article cannot be used, as these contracts have expired, one goes to Article 32. What does Article 32 say to you? That if there are reasons - let's say - force majeure, you can make direct assignments to this part. What does that mean? We are not saying - because I want you to hear that from the Members themselves, but also from the citizens of our country - we are not saying that the fact that we had was the judicial procedure. If you mean that, you're absolutely right. The judicial procedure and any delays thereof must be within what is calculated by the contracting authority when preparing the contracts, correctly. But what do we say? That we had a special case. Why did we have a special case? Why were we called upon to give you more information, we understood that the needs of the country in the pandemic are above and we decided to put our hand in the pocket and increase our budget by 25%, including two hundred seventy new schools. How did we do that, even if our promotion came out in April? I would remind you of the latest statement by SYRIZA, which started by direct awards, do not forget this. The first distribution of meals in 2017, without a pandemic, was launched by the Ministry of Development which was a contracting authority, the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection. No matter what, but we don't leave that. You started with direct assignments? You started with direct assignments. Is that what you wanted? That's what you wanted. We don't want that. We had a competition, we started it our first year earlier than you - and we didn't know him already - we started your competition April, your last one - as long as you knew the system that you set up - started at the end of May, right? That's why he had these delays. And what do we say? We are starting a competition which, however, needs to have a multi-critical study of where we give this money. That's why he was delayed, even if we started earlier than they had started any other year. We started in April. What is this polycritical study? We do not give the above meals, these 25% more meals, in a difficult year where we think, where I see my fellow Members. We are giving these meals on the basis of a study which has three factors. What's wrong with him? He had the unemployment rate throughout Greece, had the job-creating potential throughout Greece and also had the density of the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income allowance, right? So, on the basis of these three criteria of absolute vulnerability, we did this multi-critical study, which showed us where to give meals. That is why the competition has been delayed, so the objections to the competition procedure are now not because we had not predicted that this could be done. We anticipated it much better than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. We continue with Mr Pericles Manda from New Democracy and then Mrs Dionysia Agerinopoulou will speak. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the part of the 'Tsacona - Good Water' road, which is part of the 'Patras - Tower - Chacona' motorway, has been a claim for many decades now from the citizens of Messinia and especially from the western Messinia, a claim for a road that will link a rich productive region with the motorway of Morea, with Athens, with Patras, our port and Olympia, a road that will meet the needs of over fifty thousand people living in this area, which is doubled in the summer months and, of course, is multiplying much more with tourism and the visitors we have every year. It is a place that will be connected to Athens and Patras, rich, productive. As long as I can tell you that the Municipality of Triphyria has the second greenhouse centre of the country, which means that there is a huge number of exports, but also a rich transport project. In the Triphyria region is produced about 40% of the Messinia olive oil, so you realize how great the transport and export work of the region is. Of course, it is the municipality that connects the major tourist units of Pylia to western Greece, and of course, to Western Messinia. It is a road that is 95% mature and would have completed its maturity if Morreas had not retreated his obligation to complete the studies. It is a road that has approved environmental conditions and, indeed, if one goes back to his study, he will see that he is not difficult to build because he does not pass through inhabited areas, from cities and can easily be built. But above all, it is a road, such as the entire axis to Patras, where, unfortunately, we have mourned too many victims due to the poor road safety of this axis. An amendment to today's bill, Mr Minister, which obviously satisfys us, which integrates the entire Patras-Tower-Tsacon motorway into the existing concession so that it creates a prospect of development and integration of the whole road. The most important thing is that in the same amendment the Ministry describes this motorway as a priority infrastructure project and enables implementation within the framework of the concession concerned, as was its initial design before 2013 that was excluded and clearly is a project of paramount importance for road safety. But, Minister, I have to tell you that there is a widespread concern in Messinia about the development of this road. This is because, on the one hand, for many years now, while there has been nothing has been done to date, on the other hand, in the last few days, Mr. Nikos, has announced the proclamation of the construction of a road linking the Lefktro to Ancient Olympia, which will, of course, try to integrate and finance it through the Fund of the Right of Going to the Metaly-Linguistic Age. We all realise that it is clearly a fair request for the Megalopolitan and Arcadia region to link Olympia to the MORE motorway. But, at the same time, we realise that it is so difficult to build two motorways, which will, of course, have the same philosophy in the context of the budgets that we have as a country with all these problems, of course, with the relevant approvals that we have to obtain from the European Commission. And this concern is becoming more and more intense, because we must make it clear - and you must also, of course, be clear at the first opportunity - what is the aim of the Ministry? Does the amendment concern only the part 'Patras tower', which we are all clearly in agreement and which we must end with and move forward for the efforts that you have made at last to start the motorway at the beginning of the year? Are we gonna stop there? Are we going to continue? Is there a timeframe? What actions will the Ministry take? What action will it take? We should know so that we can respond to the citizens. Another amendment to today's bill, which is very important, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the amendment on the release of the Greek Police from the responsibility of providing air transport security services. Those of us who are lucky to have a regional airport in our prefecture, unfortunately, find that too many policemen are on duty at the airport practicing themselves on the ground, not really focusing on their own duties of suppressing crime, so that the police department of the county is empty and the world does not have the absolute or the required security in a number of policemen throughout the prefecture, so that we have police officers to control baggage and keep things at an airport which creates major problems. It is a constant request and a good one being implemented. Finally, as far as the body of the bill is concerned, it is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent years we have all witnessed various phenomena and bad roads and Greek roads in general. Most of all, though, with everything that has happened in recent years almost every Greek family has mourned a relative friend on the streets of our country. If you look around you, you'll find examples everywhere. This is, of course, the result of two factors: driving behaviour and appropriate infrastructure. Dear Minister, over the last two years you have really done an excellent job on the part of the infrastructure, something that everyone recognises, without noise, but with very substantial interventions. You have launched very important infrastructure projects throughout the country, which is very important to us all. With today's bill, then, the government is doing a very important piece of work to do with the reformist section that aims to improve and upgrade the process of driving licences so that we can go to another philosophy in driving behaviour. Dear Minister, I think it is now our duty to put a definitive end to the unacceptable and dangerous Greek phenomenon, some new drivers first get the diploma and then learn to lead Greek roads with the well-known results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Mrs Agerinopoulou has the floor from New Democracy and immediately thereafter Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis from SYRIZA through Webex. Here you go, Mrs. Agerinopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are discussing a number of issues which are very important for road safety. The first part of the bill regulates issues that have been pending for some time and which rationalise, settle and create conditions of transparency and objectivity in the way the driving licence tests are conducted in our country. The second section regulates a number of more specific issues relating to vehicle traffic, which also settles chronic uncertainties, such as the regulation on historical vehicles. Arrangements on theoretical and practical training and examination of candidate drivers who may participate in the examinations shall be made, after having completed their seventeen years and obtain the temporary driving licence. Special theoretical training is also reinforced for specific categories of candidates, such as disabled people, using special training materials that will include, among other things, the use of a digital manual with sound, images and videos in Greek sign language. Education is therefore being modernised, in practice, on urban roads, where there are degrees of difficulty, but also examinations in general, so as to promote road safety in our country. Drivers are also given the opportunity to attend practical training courses in new technology vehicles. The promotion of new technology vehicles is a priority for our country because they provide greater road safety, but they also emit fewer pollutants. As we are now in the middle of the work of the 26th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow, it is worth mentioning in these new vehicles, but also being our direct concern and the environmental and energy dimension of road transport. Beyond the very considerable effort made by the government to promote electricity, we must all, guides and, above all, drivers, teach and learn, especially in our everyday lives, to take environmental driving, to choose low or zero-pollutant vehicles and to reduce the use of our vehicles to what is necessary. So, our driving behaviour will become safe not only for man, but for the natural environment and climate as well. For Elias, but in particular for neighbouring prefectures, as we have heard before, for Messinia, for Achaia, Zakynthos, Kefalonia, it is even more important to table an amendment today by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which may be one of the most anticipated arrangements for our prefecture. Article 2 of the Ministry of Infrastructure Amendment No 1116/25, entitled 'Agreements on the road axis 'Patras - Tower - Tsakona' - Repeal of paragraph 1 of the fifth Article 'Patra - Tsakona'. 4219/2013’ the arrangement exempted from the initial plan to implement the initial single concession agreement for Elefsina - Patras - Tower - Tsakonas the deferred part of Patras - Tower motorway. This means that, by abolishing Article 5(1), the existing legal situation automatically retroactively retroactively retroactively. In other words, there is the possibility that the Greek State may proceed with the construction of Patras - Tower, as was foreseen under the same conditions as the initial concession contract in 2007 within the initial legal framework with which the remaining sections of the motorway have already been built so far successfully. The Patras - Pyrgos - Tsakos - Tsakonas motorway corridor is characterised as a priority infrastructure project and is now able with the current legislation by the amendment to be implemented within the framework of the concession concerned and, furthermore, to implement this project, which is a project for our region and for the whole country of the highest importance for road safety. For this development of the work, I would like to thank the Minister, and also the Deputy Minister who is with us today, as well as all the officials who have worked unwisely to submit the dossier to the European Commission, but also to prepare this amendment, but also to our Prime Minister himself, who, among the important issues he has successfully negotiated with the European Union, had mentioned and set the Patras-Pyrgos motorway as well. So we expect projects to finally begin in early 2022. Finally, I would like to make a special reference to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health, number 1118, which in part cures one of the very important issues of our prefecture, the lack of medical staff in the hospitals of Elias. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This arrangement deals with the issues of the costs of regional hospitals and health centres and regulates the provision of services by private doctors and also by ERC doctors to fill gaps in newspapers. There is therefore provision for medical staff to be compensated for their daily work, amounting to EUR 250 per on-call. The possibility of compensation is therefore also allowed for additional active on-calls. These regulations will indeed strengthen the National Health System with special care for regional hospitals, where medical staff are now lacking, and our doctors, who have so far been self-sufficiently supported by the country's health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mrs Agerinopoulou, and respect for the time. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to wish the Minister the best, but also to all our fellow citizens and our compatriots who have been subjected to this terrible case. And of course, I would also like to appeal to those who have not been vaccinated, to be vaccinated because the vaccine is a shield. Of course, all of us must respect the measures that experts have proposed. Mr President, we are experiencing a complex crisis these days. We have phenomena that really create serious problems in society. Precision is in explosion mode. I'd say he's screaming and threatening the incomes of most people. The pandemic, unfortunately once again, has escaped state control, so that we have all these phenomena that really create a melancholy climate. The pandemic is really fighting since we were unable to decisively support the National Health System, which, although it was a tired and declining system, proved that it was really able to lift the burden of this terrible crisis. Its staff, therefore, is judged to be incomplete, despite the delays that have arisen, because when we suspend the presence of some doctors and strains because of the vaccine, they should have been replaced with anaphylacts. We also need to see the issue of heavy and unhealthy. It is mature now that there is no limitation of the past by the memorials that the list of heavy and unhealthy ones has not been allowed to open, to see it. At that time, the political system had an excuse. Now we have no excuse. We must give people the heavy and unhealthy, recognizing their contribution. We have to do this whole political system together, and that's where we'll all put our backs. Also, as the solidarity levy has been abolished in some groups, it should be abolished in health care because they have to deal with situations that are not just about the virus itself. If one sees ELSTAT's statistics, one will see that we have 12% to 20% deaths and other causes because we have thrown all the weight into the coronary. So we have to deal with these issues, because the measures brought by the government create other situations. They are directly and decisively affected by the retail trade and, above all, by the focus. These people are in real despair, because they were the first to pay for the marble of the first, second and third phases of pandemic, and now they are again being called upon to bear huge weight by facing an existential problem. That's the truth. I would also like to welcome the effort at last to implement the programme of child feeding in schools. It is a programme that really needs to work. I now come to the question of the bill. Mr President, in the end, the question of driver training is a painful story coming from very far away and I fear that it will continue to go a long way away, as long as we do not dare as a political system to cut off the umbilical cord of exam education. Did he say to me yesterday - and very wisely - an instructor "Your child, Mr Kurubl, when he is in English, is going with his tutor to the British Council to give tests to get Proficiency"? Why should the instructors be involved in the exams? To dismantle this relationship and so what we all want - and I believe that the whole political system wants it - is to cut off these strange underground routes that we all know at times that unfortunately exist. Finally, the car has become an essential component of our lives, and through this necessity it creates, we unfortunately also have the aberrations, so that thousands of people are lost unjustly in the streets, because it is not exactly what road safety should be at the level that it should be, because we have not dared to introduce it into normal education, so that the society and youth that starts to learn too early. Of course, we must agree on the possibility for young people to receive at the seventeenth degree, because when you recognise the right of a young man to vote at seventeen, Mr President, I think it is extremely appropriate to give him the opportunity to be a driver. From that point on, it must be the preparation and preparation of the project to gain the responsibility and consciousness it must have, because it is often threatened by its own life, as well as by other people's lives. Of course, Mr President, because of my involvement in the Ministry of Welfare as Secretary-General for Welfare where, for the first time in Greece in 1993, we founded the "NIOCHOS" Centre, the National Institute for Disabled Persons, where young paraplegic and quadrugs were trained and trained, I would also like to address young people and to tell them to bear in mind that a wrong way of driving can lead to devastating situations for people's lives and especially young people. We have very high rates in Greece and Europe of road accidents that have an effect not only on the deaths that are the complete catastrophe, but also on the phenomena of grievance and quadruple that literally overthrow the lives of young people. On this issue we all have a responsibility to contribute to finding the best possible way to limit these phenomena that have huge costs not only in material situations...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u63	Finish, Mr. Kurubli, please. Mr. Spirzis is also impatient.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u64	... but also in human life itself, which is the highest good we have as humans. That is why I would also like to make a reference to Article 19, Mr President, and to say that I do not think that we should reload this task to the uniforms, which we call on them to offer, because they really are a great deal of weight, and I would say that many times. We must not involve them in this case too. I would also like to make a reference, as I said, to Article 24. There is this center that can continue to provide very important services to the mobile disabled. I shall close, Mr President, with Rule 42, where 5% is introduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u65	Finish, Mr. Kurubli, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u66	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to ask you, Minister, to have an update on what is going on with this famous CCT station in olive grove. Even the surrounding municipalities benefit, as mayor Aigaleo said the day before yesterday, when he told me how important it is to be in an area that I really don't think is in line with what we want to say is Athens. The olive grove is an area that has been essentially left to its fate. What about the famous Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Tau who has been scheduled to be there for twenty years, and so far nothing has happened? I think it is a very important matter that we must promote so that the landscape can really be changed in the region and the country finally in 2021, 2022, 2023, has a long-term bus station worthy of its cultural and social level. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u67	Thank you too, Mr. Kurubli. Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I wish Minister Costas Karamanlis sincerely passing through and passing COVID as lightly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, after what I have heard just before I take the floor not only as a member of the SYRIZA but also as former Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. Road safety is a major issue for the country. The optimisation of the three-way "man, either as a driver or as a citizen, vehicle and infrastructure" is therefore always timely. We must drive safely, we must walk safely, we must use the bike and the other means safely, we must have the appropriate vehicles and infrastructure. It is very important that we really should be trained for this and not allow other generations to have the education and training needed for road behaviour and for road treatment. I'd like to ask a question. In the four-and-a-half years of SYRIZA we really, with a lot of trouble, made the matter, the books, electronic training systems for teachers, electronic and interactive games for students, pilot program for schools. What about this story? You've been in the government for two and a half years. Why haven't they already taken lessons in all primary schools, in all classes as planned? I'd like a briefing. I believe - it has already been heard by many New Democracy Members - that the aim - is to address corruption, opacity, to correct the distortions that exist and to have a completely different picture, in relation to accidents, of accidents. I think that from 2017 when the major motorways of the country were completed by 2019, it really seemed how great a reduction we had in accidents and accidents especially, in what we had dead and serious injuries. They stayed to be three, four motorways even stayed, and the rest of them related mainly to education, to education. I will submit the press releases of the Hellenic Statistical Authority - not all of them have come out for 2021 - which show the great increase in accidents and accidents in the months that have passed in 2021. It's a dramatic situation. I think it is worth the effort to remember for the two and a half years that in August 2019, just one month after the Mitsotakis Government was elected, after the law of the state of service, you voted for Law 4625/2019 and canceled Law 4599/2019, which we had voted on driving licences. You overthrowded a lot of things and you come today, and Mr. Karamanlis and Mr. Kefaliannis were committed at the time, tell us that you are bringing a big reform bill. You must change the title of the bill, ladies and gentlemen. You must make it: 'Back, Kostas, ships'. There would be nothing left to read to you now in order to understand that all this, which is a common place with the Members of the New Democracy, is unfortunately not with the Government of the New Democracy, with the final state of Mitsotakis. So I read a post: "The best political leadership of the Ministry of Transport in recent years has respected and appreciated the driver and proves it in practice, by dialogue with him and by accepting his positions. The leadership created and introduced a law in plenary aimed at ensuring the transparency of the tests and ensuring the dignity of the driver. Mr Minister and Minister, cooperation with the WTO, as always, has been impeccable and constructive." This is the post of the President of the WTO. I'll testify it at the end of the Minutes. Looks like it didn't spend a day. You don't read it, there's no more improvement in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Let's do the papers. You do not read any more 'DOCUMENTO': 'Blue excellence with false diplomas'. He refers to the trade unions of the New Democracy and the particular president together, who are now indicted. After the regular interrogation, they were subjected to a trial for the circuitry of false diplomas caught in SYRIZA. There you are! Just to congratulate you on this piece of legislation, this man is enough. We could be confined there. You do not read 'DOCUMENTO'. "Police News": Another who was caught in the exams - Egypt was, he did not even know how to write Greek - to guide him with a wireless driver school. How do you deal with this in this particular draft law today that you suggest us? Photo from the written examinations, the theoretical. You don't read that either. You do not read or read “KATHMERINI”: “Fifteen arrests for diplomas – “male”.” From 1,500 to 2,500 thousand euros the reward for coming home. That's what you're doing now. Drivers' licenses at home. You don't read 'in.gr' either: 'Platted circuits'. The facilitation turf and the way the circuit acted. Plastic drivers' licenses even to bus and truck drivers. Nor do you read "First Theme": "Dialogues - fire with the fake licensed circuitry. With EUR 2,500 they licensed bus drivers.’ And raise the limits. How do you deal with these? There are many other publications from the newspaper “KATHMERINI” and other newspapers. They're not charged to SYRIZA. You do not even now put on board examiners, as we have done with the sole and main task of examining them, you do not put innovatory procedures. Yesterday, Mr. Papadopoulos said that he was rejected by the Privacy Authority. Who said that? Why doesn't he testify to us, so we can see what was rejected? Why have you abolished the fixed camera record system in cars and put the instructor - the one we want to catch, that is, the one who congratulates you, your manager - and other executives, be responsible for the camera? So they're gonna record that they're getting them? You want to drive us crazy? Of course, neither configured tracks nor specific tests nor specific specifications for examiners. It's all too much! As well as "you managed", as Kyriakos Mitsotakis says in the pandemic with sixteen thousand dead, you will even better be doing it than you see in road safety. It is no coincidence that these circuits have been manned over your days, you have tolerated them, because they are your executives, and you continue to support them. Because the government's political leadership did not meet with another president of another federation, he met with this one. He also has pictures of the man in his post. And, of course, you don't have the examiner in the vehicle and the instructor outside the vehicle, as we anticipated. You have now put him in the passenger's seat with the legislative amendments, which you have tabled to nothing more than five, sixty-four. You have also not predicted what we had, that is, a draw at the last minute. You give them a few hours to prepare people! You also anticipate a photograph of the theoretical exams, what I told you before. For Christ's sake! In order not to think that we have only opposition, there are articles that, in fact, are in a positive direction, such as Articles 5, 10 and 11 for compulsory schooling at primary and high school, with special educational needs and the rest for our disabled colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u69	You'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u70	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm gonna need two minutes. What else are you doing? You are claiming the incompatibility of civil servants and trainers. Why? There is a decision of the Council of State. Has the decision of the Council of State been postponed? Again ruffles? You are going through this bill of ruffles, as are the amendments you have tabled and accepted. Of course, there are also arrangements for vehicles of historical interest. I heard a New Democracy MEP saying that we did this by ideology. Minister, have you searched for the fraud you had commissioned from previous governments to characterise cars of historical interest how many cars were not of historical interest, had signs as vehicles of historical interest and never paid any traffic charges, nor anything else, such as the rest of the citizens required to pay? That's not it either. I'm finishing up with something I said to leave, but I won't. I saw Mr Karamanlis celebrated last days for driving licences for young people aged seventeen years. This was institutionalised. You canceled, you bring it today as yours, which is permanent tactics in too many things. But we also put an escort that didn't have in the system, in the point system, a unit. You and that you cancel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u71	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u72	I'm closing, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u73	You've spoken twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u74	I'm really closing up, Mr. President. Mrs. Michailidou said everything about public procurement. He said, "we can assign them to where we want them." Inside there is a provision and an amendment to the Patras tower section. In your answer, after you tell us about the pastures, Kalogerica and everything else, will you answer us? Why don't you answer for two and a half years? And you have made European and national legislation on public contracts a rag. Why don't you say it'll cost 100,000 more? Why don't you say that he will give the Greek State what was foreseen by the competitions plus a hundred concessionaires that the Greek citizen will pay for? Isn't that public money? Wasn't the toll the state subsidy on this concession? Secondly, which companies did you give compensation and how much?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u76	It had begun, Mr President, the work, unilaterally...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u77	You've been...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u78	No, they haven't been to the courts. They rule out this right to go to the courts, to what they anticipate. It's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u80	Of course, I'll also give you a memo, Mr. Karayannis, because it's even rough. It's not just that it's unconstitutional, that you undo your own Ministerial Decision of 2014, it's not that it's illegal, because it's closed the project, the period of operation to abolish a ministerial decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u81	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u82	The ministerial decision - the President will tell you - could be abolished in five months from its adoption, not after ten years. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u83	Come on, but you're already in fourteen minutes, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u84	Because it's even rough, to make a prediction. You will be forced to bring an amendment to your regulation. The rest for the illegality, for the scoring, which you are doing in European legislation, will be discussed with the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u86	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u87	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u88	I didn't mean to intervene, as I told you, but I saw that Mr. Spirtz was in the mood to exaggerate on some things. From what I understood from his speech, which was about twelve, thirteen minutes, he probably didn't read it, because from what I understood he read the sites and what they said about old stories that were on his day when he was Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. So I have nothing to say about the main points of this bill. Of course, Mr. Spirtzi, one of the most important things you should know is that the cameras are not the trainers, they are the Ministry. The Ministry oversees them, the Ministry will see what will happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u89	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u90	You didn't say that. You said exactly the opposite, that we're giving the cameras to the instructors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u91	No, the cameras are in the district.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u92	In any case, when you read the bill better, you will understand. I understand your internal need to criticise a bill that solves issues of time and because, when you were Minister, you made a bill that, unfortunately, because we, you know, recognize all the positive things - has never been implemented in practice. That was the biggest problem we faced, as you know, and that Greek citizens have faced. Now, one last thing you mentioned about the Patras tower, since it's also my responsibility. With great respect, Mr. Spirtzi, don't be exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u93	Fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u94	Don't expose yourself. I feel that you need to be confirmed by the European Commission. What we are doing is in full consultation with the European Commission. In absolute consultation! Secondly, the money that the Greek State will give will be less as a financial contribution and than what we announced in the House, because we have the answers from the Funding Gap to state aid and they will be less. So don't be exposed to this either. And because the project will start and end as we have said, we will again be here - you, at least, being a Member of Parliament and I wish you again - and you will see that Kyriakos Mitsotakis will also inaugurate this project, along with Kostas Karamanlis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u97	There's no question, Mr. Spirtzi. He answered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u98	I want to fix something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u99	You raised a subject and spoke fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u100	I don't want words in my mouth...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u101	In any case, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. I want to make a correction to what the Minister said. I said exactly what you said, that the cameras will be held by the regions, by the officials who take them - that's what I said - and they will record, as you can see, no...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u103	All right, you've made it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Karayannis, I'll tell you something. Honestly, I have no problem with any public controversy and mistakes or omissions made during the SYRIZA ruling period, admit them and discuss them. What we have never done, however, is to humiliate European legislation and international conventions, as we are doing today. And you know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Spirtzi, you have given the clarification. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u106	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u107	Good. We close the circle of speakers with my colleague Evangelos Apostolos from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u108	First of all, Mr President, I wish the Minister well and quickly to return. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a report of ideas, as the definition of the details of its implementation, once again, depends on the adoption of twenty ministerial decisions and a presidential decree. It is characteristic that professionals in the field have tried to carry out a simulation for its implementation, but they have not succeeded. In particular, ministerial decisions setting out, inter alia, the specific training manuals, the curriculum, questionnaires, the theoretical training material of candidate drivers for all categories of vehicles, the specific technical and organisational measures and others, such as the qualifications of examiners, are provided for in the register. In short, all these forecasts will require similar governmental decisions. The bill makes the theoretical education and examination of the candidate drivers superficial, I would say, rather than substantial amendments, and will thus continue, as has been done so far, to strangle the answers, without real understanding. It does not provide for any control of the training provided... (the majority of trainers were not heard because of a bad connection) in order to change the attitude of all the trainers, trainers, examiners and candidates. Although the purpose of the present, as you suggest, is to deal with corruption and opacity in the application of the system of examinations for permits, unfortunately you are not able to fulfil them.... (It didn't sound due to poor connection) objectives. The framework for licensing remains anachronistic and dangerous, favouring illegal transactions and...(not heard because of poor connection) arrested all examiners in suspects. Thus, the draft law on road safety mainly reinforces insecurity, since it does not only manage to give solutions to... (it was not heard because of poor connection) problems of driver education and examination, but perpetuates the unreliable system so far. For theoretical education and examination you proceed to superficial and not substantial modifications so you cannot stop the candidates snatching the answers without real understanding. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to turn to an issue that concerns the Minister, but also Evia, the particular region of Chalkida. For twenty-five years for bypassing Chalkida and still not only can you... (it didn't sound because of a bad connection), but he also opened another conversation about another shift of... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). And this change of course comes on its own, since, at the same time, we are talking about financing two bypasses, which touch on both sides of Chalkida and are the bypass of Basilica and the Ford. Is it possible in the same area that we have three bypasses without being associated with each other? Is it possible to discuss bridge restorations from the 2020 flood, which are badly delayed for a year and a half without providing for their connection to bypasses? At the moment, on the occasion of the tragedy in northern Evia, a debate is taking place on the Evia road network. Look at all of them together, if our place can... (it was not heard because of bad connection) a course of implementation of the self-evident, the Evia road axis, which is... It has not been heard because of bad connections for many years. And a few words on the amendment to school meals. A unprecedented, unprecedented arrangement that you are baptising provisionally to avoid SYRIZA's amendment, which is the permanent solution. This amendment cannot be applied. You'll be back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Now we have the second reading. Which of the rapporteurs would like to speak? Everybody. You'll have two minutes' speech, because you've all exhausted time, I see, except for Mr. Stoltides. Mr. Logiadis has the floor for two minutes from his seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Basically today we are talking about a project of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure "Driving safely". We do not understand what all these amendments have to do with them. The world that sees us really wonders what we're doing here. As far as the amendments are concerned, Amendment No 11/17 refers to the recruitment of temporary teachers for 2021-2022, a chronic problem, and a whole fleet. We, as a PART25, say that direct recruitment of permanent teachers is required. We are voting against it. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] With regard to Amendment No 11/18 by the Ministry of Health, we see, for example, the possibility of the surplus reserve being made available in the second article. This shows how much the vaccination program in Greece failed. Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the amendment highlight the exceptional pressure that the ERC is taking. You've done nothing for the ERC. Balls instead of hiring. It is clear that the government has completely lost control of the pandemic and resorted to spasmodic movements, in the eye of a patch. Amendment No 11/20 by the Ministry of Labour enables the OPEKA, the Agency for the Preferential Benefit and Social Solidarity, by way of derogation from the applicable provisions, to conclude direct awards. We're against it. We are voting against. With regard to the amendment number 11/21 of the Ministry of Infrastructure, as a PART25, we are opposed to the assignment of an OSCE transport project to the private CATEGORIES, which is being merged by the New Democracy with the invoicing of the pandemic, rather than to strengthen and modernise the bus fleet of public transport operators. In the name of the pandemic again, you extend the duration of the aged buses or private transport operators, with obvious negative effects on the environment and road safety and the conditions of passenger movements in general. Article 7 extends the intended exceptional and in accordance with the provisions on the award of public contracts by the Civil Aviation Service, the Ministry of Defence of the work of providing security services at airports. If it is possible for the security to have private operations and not the Greek Police. Take the work from the Greek Police and give it to private individuals. We're against it. We are also voting against this amendment. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 11/19 by the Ministry of Finance, the first ten articles deal with arrangements to privatise the work of the Committee on Gambling Surveillance and Control, i.e. the audited party will also be the auditor of himself with this amendment. Of course, we are voting against all the amendments you have put forward, which have nothing to do with road safety. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Loyadis. Good afternoon, too. Mr Leonidas Stoltides has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has raised the tone, to which we wish for rapid recovery. Passing by. It was characteristic that the controversy with SYRIZA was exacerbated on a minimal matter related to whether the instructor would be in the car. We didn't know anything new, of course. These are the differences, because also with regard to the feeding of capital which has increased the controversy over the amount of the sale of public property, as regards the OSE and the 'TRAINOSE', the smashing of workers' rights, the creation of terms and conditions of unbearable movement, work and, in total, the lives of our people. Here we must denounce again, as throughout the time and in all the governments, that the way in which the amendments go down and they need to be voted on uniformly and that the parties cannot be enclosed and that they cannot actually be expressed in an article that could be voted in favour and in favour of them in some cases, such as here in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Home Affairs, which is given the extension of the possibility for municipalities to provide additional space for tables which we see as positive, and for extension of terms, particularly as regards the mass operators of the movement. With the unacceptable provision of the application of the Hatzidakis Act, this anti-government abstention, to conduct electronic antiquities, we disagree vertically. The Minister said that he is actually implementing a request from unions, associations, and we tell him that we know who these unions are, the clubs. In fact, the GFCM has asked it to cancel collective procedures, to open up a better way to intervene in the decisions of workers from the pressure of the employer and, of course, to create connections that increase fatalism and compromise, which will not pass. As far as the issue of the Ministry of Health is concerned, we cannot talk about a number of vaccines, overcoming them and, at the same time, being an inconsistent part of the population with the government's responsibility. Here we could agree with the additional fees, but in the name of this fee we cannot accept the travel industry from hospitals to hospitals in order to hate some holes and open up many more, since the already subordinated public hospitals will be seconded by doctors, further undermining their function and needs. In other interventions, which have to do with the same bill, the possibility of obtaining a second qualification is used as a vehicle for the direct penetration of the private sector into public hospitals. We believe that the insufficient number of doctors as a whole and their distribution to various specialities, as well as the distribution to different regions of the country, is due to the fact that they are determined by the development of the health system with market rules, which is anarchical development, contradictions and contradictions, which would not exist in another system for satisfying people's needs. Hospital transits intersect are dangerous for both patients and some of the doctors who will be invited to carry out the course. In medicine, you know, the "Everything for All". Specialization, while moving forward as a result of new knowledge and needs, in the care of endo-natives, which are part of patient care, is dealt with in terms of the past decades. The assessment of your government policy and your "responsive" allies has been done. There's no need for a reassessment. The turtle rates in vaccination and worsening pandemic indicators, the marginal functioning of many public hospitals and the feeding of health businessmen have put their stamp on everything. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you - on the basis of the SYRIZA amendment, the measures announced by the government show your dangerous policy. For you the media, the supermarkets, the churches are closed spaces where the pandemic does not stick. With these paradoxes you have irrationality and distrust, not only in relation to your politics, but also to science itself. So the results of the large anti-infectious rate not only reverse them, but you keep it and you are responsible for the costs that will result from this choice in the health of our people. We demand health and safety measures at the workplace, recruitment of permanent staff and more ICUs, restoring hospitals that have been closed, private sector requisition without compensation, primary health care on a 24-hour basis, control everywhere with the responsibility of the state. This is the front of the class pole claims in the labour movement, and it needs to be framed as massively as possible, because it is the greatest delusion to expect the government to become a priority. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Stoltides. Mr Christos Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. We will obviously need a little more time, because we have not exhausted what we wanted to say with the time that the Bureau has put in. A great deal of issues have been raised in relation to the main part of the draft law on the new training and examination of candidate drivers for driving licences, following the acceptance of proposals such as Article 14 with the final position of the instructor on the front of the vehicle, but also other improvements and the acceptance of several proposals, such as Article 12, Article 23, but also in relation to the provisions of Article 30 concerning the conditions for the meeting of the 17-year-old driver and the need to adopt provisions aimed at the reliability and transparency of the process of training and examination of the candidate drivers, we are putting forward positive proposals at the start of the draft law and please assess and take into account the other proposals that we have made in all the debates, to include or in the ministerial decisions to be adopted, on which we would like to have a comprehensive briefing at a meeting of the relevant Production and Road Safety Committees, whether they are to be included in legislative initiatives. However, we shall be voting on the articles in accordance with our positions, which we have expressed at the meetings, and on the legislative improvements that have been or have not been made. For the amendments, as I have mentioned in the prototypes, these multimodalities with the many articles and many amendments we have stressed and denounced many times that they violate the Rules of Procedure, alter the will of the Members and the parties, and in many cases you are blackmailing and blackmailing the positive vote because of positive and necessary provisions, covering other purposes, which we do not know. You therefore systematically continue, under the pretext of pandemic, at the same time as, by way of derogation, the procedures for the signing of various economic contracts. Now, in relation to the Health Ministry's amendment, the Minister did not tell us what the experts say about other categories of staff with regard to compulsory expenditure are saying. Is it not the government's responsibility to consider all the issues that exist, constitutionality or in relation to the Bioethics Committee? It is simply clear that the government's disarmament in the management of the measures, the selective treatment for certain groups, and the implementation of them, is also apparent. So let us not try to hide behind arbitrary distortions of reality. In spite of the articles we disagree with, and the importance of dealing with the fourth wave of pandemic, we also have negative developments which lead us to be positive about this amendment. In Amendment No 1121, in relation to the derogating effect of the contract for the award of routes to the CCEE at Attica, we referred to the phenomena of aggregation in the public transport sector in a phase of Coronovirus, but we did not receive any answers either to the supply of the three hundred buses with leasing, how much they were received, how much they were circulated, how much they were circulated, or to the tender for the purchase of the thousands of new buses, or to Article 4 for the replacement of public passenger taxi based in the South Aegean Region. Fine, but why is that only there? There are other regions which also have increased tourist traffic and similar problems. With regard to the temporary leave of the three-year period for the waterways and the periods mentioned, we hope that no further problems will arise in the process of final licensing. These are problems that we have noted. Some of them have been included in the changes made to this amendment. With these provisions, however, it is still uncertain that it will enable licensing to be facilitated. In Amendment 1116 and in relation to Article 2 on the Patras - Tower - Tsakona road, the references made by the Minister do not reassure us and do not satisfy the need for a rapid and complete construction of the project, as planned. This work, we said, must not be blind. For the Tower - Tsakona there was simply a reference to joining the concession agreement in the future, vaguely and without a timetable. Why are you not just abolishing the exception to the Patras to Tower, whose necessity is given and urgent, and having more alternatives to the other part? The amendment by the Ministry of Finance is dealt with by ten articles on the functioning of the Committee on Games with which we disagree. We cannot fail to point out that we are talking about the committee in such a rough manner. This committee supervises a market with a turnover of more than ECU 16 billion. for 2020. However, Article 11 of the amendment provides for the partial payment of the seventy-two instalments for the certified debts to the DUs, which are in a positive direction. But I would remind you of our proposal for 20 instalments, all public and funds debts, with a 30% haircut. However, this amendment cannot be voted on in its entirety. And we wonder why the President of the Commission does not come to the House to ask him why he recommends these provisions for the Committee on Games. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why the House is to control executive power in all its forms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u115	Slow down, Mr. Goka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u116	I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u117	Two minutes? It's too late. Eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u118	Appropriate reservations also arise from the amendment to suspend until 31-32022 of the execution of demolition and elimination protocols for the projects referred to above which have been built on a seaside, beach, banks, coastal zones, water elements, etc. You write in the explanatory statement to ensure that the necessary time is taken to carry out legalisation procedures - to settle works of all kinds built in them. What do you mean, when you write in the explanatory statement 'all kinds of projects'? Finally, before I close, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by Members of the Change Movement. We have asked for the primary and secondary bodies of the ESDC not to be extended until 31/12-2021, as provided for in the amendment you tabled. We will vote on it, but it is not enough. We propose that you do at least at the last minute an improvement for 31-7-2022. In relation to school meals, we said it was a provision we did not agree with. It is, of course, in an amendment with other positive provisions. We do not see and understand from the reply of the Minister what the unforeseen events that have prevented the OPEKA from doing competitive procedures are. School events are essential, but these procedures are no longer justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u120	I am closing with the last amendment in relation to the establishment of private KTEOs in areas outside general residence. It is clear what is stated in the explanatory statement. But I want to make it clear. The proposed amendment restores the ban on establishment in areas of general residence, but it does not specify what is happening with the existing ones, because from 2018 to 2021 this ban came back in 2018 - some KTEO has perhaps been done. Is this the 20th year of the original projection, since 2010, or the 20th year since it was established? Because it is a very serious issue and it needs to be clarified. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance, but it is the procedure that took this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u121	But the amendments are not here now, Mr Goca.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Stoltides, have you forgotten something? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President, for the possibility of intervention. I just wanted to make one clarification, so that the people who have referred to the amendment tabled by SYRIZA are not left unresolved. We agree that there should be no block exemption, that is to say, without the necessary security measures, examinations, and in order to avoid any dispersion of these instruments, and of course, the placement included all the other data which the government really has to take to cover in order to make the pandemic more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Mr Giannoulis has the floor, who will deliver lessons about what they will call them from place in two minutes. As far as I can see, you'll go up to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u126	Lessons to deliver, but in two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u127	Two minutes. You're capable! I've been sweating now! I saw him upstairs, on the Step!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u128	Don't worry, Mr. President. I'm going to contribute to the new data from this conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u129	Because Mr Athanasios said 'two minutes from his position'. Now the esteemed man has come to the Chair. He left you! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u130	First of all, I should like to express once again the sincere wishes for passively in the most painless way to the Minister, Mr Karamanlis. I hope that Mr Papadopoulos, the State Secretary for Transport, will be well. In this Chamber there is a political reserve that has been said before years to keep modesty and humility in public speech. I did not meet it at the placement of the majority parliamentary representative. The "short and humble" would be a good answer when the reality comes today and disproves the Prime Minister of the most important issue in the public sphere, the issue of pandemic, where today the SYRIZA's amendment was considered late for measures and for adoring places. When the Prime Minister yesterday, in his interview, alleged, lying that we cannot apply the measure in the worshiping areas, came out today a representative of the Clergy Association and said the obvious, that legal persons who have a structure, hierarchy, metropolitans, priests, commissions can apply controls not to create false dilemmas and foolish attempts to degrade the political speech with dilemmas "collapses or churches" - are true - to protect the faithful, the Greek citizens as a whole. The "short and humble" could have a political effect on the fact that two and a half years after the takeover of power it is not justified to limit your word to an anti-SYRIZA hysteria manias, which contains no element of proposal, no criticism, no self-criticism that what Mr Mitsotakis said yesterday, that the situation has not escaped. He's gone away. In Thessaloniki, in northern Greece, it has escaped and you pretend that things are normal, that we do not need the requisition, the use of private clinics, the awareness or mobilisation of the military hospitals, the support of doctors and not the punishment and, indeed, the inconsistency of legislating Ploiris. While he promised subsidiary doctors the renewal of contracts, he came with an amendment, hiding in another bill, to change the original decision and those who are suspended to see the way out on December 31st, while hospital administrations have already signed the renewals, bearing in mind the commitment of the Mitsotakis Government to be renewed by March 31st. These do not constitute a serious government. They do not make up the responsible government which the place should have in such a crisis of pandemic, health and economic importance. The'short and humble', too, would help the respected and worthy State Secretary for Labour, Mrs Michaelidou, not to claim four blatant lies, supporting the amendment on a major social issue, such as school meals. It is four lies in relation to the action or inaction of the Mitsotakis Government and four lies in relation to what was happening in previous years. I am concise - not to really abuse time, Mr President - that in the four points on unforeseen needs, where the truth is that the increase has been decided since April when the notice of invitation to tender came out. It did not arise retrospectively. The competition was opened in April on SYRIZA, "very later every year," said Ms. Michailidou. The truth: The competition started and was completed in time - and this is history, it is not a feather - when students needed it. He said: they have been delayed unforeseenly because they have studied criteria. The same criteria exist in the legislative framework bearing the signature SYRIZA uses itself. The fourth lie - there is now the limit - is that since 2017 that this provision for families tested at the time by the economic crisis - is now being tested by both the economic crisis and by the pandemic - and then the expenditure has come to the state budget. I am sorry, but with very brief references, I would like to ask you, even at the last minute. I come to the provisions of the bill. Don't avenge people and workers. It does not lead anywhere - and we have seen it with the effectiveness of the measure of suspension of health - for two reasons. The debate with a very great deal of fearful responsibility and annoying responsibility from the government has been frozen. Was the measure effective? The over six thousand people missing today from the organisations that are fighting hard to keep people alive have been covered. Don't you have any answers to these? Do you only have charges that are being launched for the SYRIZA government? Will this be your political account, when you will be judged by your history and your fascination that we ruled the country by comparing both the shadow or always with the stress to degrade the previous government and leave the absolute gap?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u131	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u132	I'm finishing up with the articles. Don't avenge the OSH workers. Minister, I know you have no responsibility for the drafting of this bill, but you are from Thessaloniki. Nowhere does the punishing exemption for OSH workers, in order to receive certain benefits, result, without wage costs, as opposed to all the other workers in urban transport and the transport they would receive with this legislation. Honestly, I did not understand, from the procedure to where it was interrupted, whether it is experimental and hybrid, the measure with the multi-seat taxi for the south-eastern Aegean or whether it is a customer and a rousphetological relationship developed between the Ministry and some of the political interests in this region. I don't understand. Is it hybrid? Is it experimental? Are you trying to follow the other regions or are you just mocking us? You need to explain that, so that the drivers, the taxi owners, know what they're waiting for. Do not let it blurred, it is very serious for a region of Greece to acquire an acceptable, commonly accepted measure, but for one region to enjoy it and the others to remain vacant. And I want to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u133	Please hang up. Where could you have misused time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u134	I apologise, Mr President. As far as the OSE is concerned, I have received ironic approaches to the speed of the arrows, fast trains. I would suggest that you come a little more informed and if you read today in "KATHMERINI" what, in a ironic, deportant and arrogant way, which is obviously the second nature of your policy, is now described in "KATHMERINI" that "the trains in 2022 and we see". Of course I appreciate that in '2022 and see' you will have the status of Vice-Population officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr Giannoulis. The rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr Christos Kelles, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, before moving on to dentistry, I would like to wish our dear Minister, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, by heart. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and today in this Chamber a lot of the previous speakers have heard. I would like to take note of the serious speeches which have been made, particularly in terms of the Hurricane Officers. For the loss of the SYRIZA elections, due to a drought, we heard. I think that there must be a measure in parliamentary dialogue, and it seems that the measure has been lost. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it seems that two and a half years later you have not yet understood why you have lost the elections, and that is what is seen by the fact that you have not changed to nothing because there is a lasting refusal in everything. Nor is it accidental that after two and a half years in all municipal counts you are constantly falling. And I come to the bill. For our Government, strengthening road safety is one of its main priorities. Since the time we were still opposition, Kyriakos Mitsotakis had presented the New Democracy's plan on road safety, which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport is now rapidly implementing with his partners. This is a holistic project, which includes not only actions at public transport and infrastructure levels, but is developing combined and intervention in the fields of education, governance and penalties. As we have repeatedly pointed out in the Committee on Road Safety, what is of fundamental importance to the new driver is the road education he has received and the road consciousness he has shaped. With this belief we called for the upgrading of road education in schools. And indeed an important step was taken, Mr Heta, from the Ministry of Education and the course of road education, and it was in the free area of teaching and the timetable. Then the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport made a big leap and brought the bill with the activation of sustainable urban mobility plans, the great CVA. And it follows that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which brings forward today, the new framework for driving examination of the candidate drivers, which is a pillar of the government's road safety strategy. Is anyone here, ladies and gentlemen, who doubts the fact that the process of obtaining a driving licence should be changed? I think not. Is anyone who does not want transparency in this examination procedure? I guess not. Should we not ensure and improve the accessibility of disabled people to transport and support their uninterrupted participation in the social and economic life of the place? Definitely. That's a state's moral debt. These purposes serves this legislation. It enriches the process of theoretical examination with the themes bank which will be renewed. Secondly, the practical test is structured in four stages, where the driver is considered in manoeuvre driving. Thirdly, comprehensive care is taken for disabled and disabled people. Fourthly, the body of examiners and other officials from the general government is expanded. And fifthly, we allow the 17-year-olds from the time they have the right to vote, to be able to take the driving licence for one year to eighteen, under two specific conditions: to be accompanied by a twenty-five-year-old on the next seat and to have a driving licence of at least five years. At the same time, it should be noted that the government, with the new law, is also working to amend the framework of the sentences we have, as well, recommended through the Special Committee on Road Safety, calling for the stricter regulation of legislation and has already been tabled in the House, the bill of the Ministry of Justice amending the Code of Criminal Procedure more stringently. And, of course, I would like to tell you that there is another bill from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which will also be amended by the Road Traffic Code and, of course, road infrastructure projects are going on throughout the country at a speed of pace. Such a rate of public works and road construction has to be seen by our country since the age of governance by Kostas Karamanlis, where then Minister of Infrastructure, PTHHODE, was George Sufflis, where the major road infrastructure was built that strengthened the building activity of central and northern Greece and gave new breath to the region. In conclusion, I shall refer to the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic cannot be a field of opposition between the parties, and especially the Civic Opposition. There is no such thing in Europe anywhere. No Civic Opposition in a European country is taking opposition only from the outset. Civic Opposition is a lasting refusal. They shut down the schools, why did they shut down the schools? Opened the schools, why did the schools open up? We opened tourism, why did we open tourism? This thing can't go on. We were the ones who closed the churches and did not make Easter in Greece. And while we now say that church access for the faithful is allowed, SYRIZA comes and is being cut because the rapid test is not to apply there, as is the case in the other sectors. Now, so hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand! I can't really understand it. It can't all be votes. Our enemy is SYRIZA's pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, it is not New Democracy in this particular matter. I'm hanging up. I invite you to vote in favour of the bill. And if you have a specific proposal, we are here to hear it and we have shown that this is why the parliamentary procedure is to consult and what is positive we are in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. Mrs Arabadzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u138	First of all, as a parliamentary representative, he mentioned what I said and made suggestions to me by Mr Giannoulis. If, Mr Giannoulis, you hadn't mentioned my name, to say about the staff, so that we all understood the Rules of Procedure in the end, in the capacity that you described, regardless of whether I had a right as a parliament, I could take the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u139	Staff if he says anything and offends you. He made a general reference to the parliamentary process. Please. So you're insulting me now with what you're saying, that I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u140	I am not insulting you, Mr President, by their name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u141	Go on, move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u142	We are explaining to Mr Giannoulis who has made suggestions about'short and humble' to us. You obviously forgot, Mr. Giannoulis, that you said yesterday from the Step of the National Representation that we took the elections with a sham. Do you keep saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u143	It happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Giannoulis, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u145	The Minister, Mr Karamanlis, has asked you to withdraw it from the Minutes, not because you are insulting us, because you are insulting the people, who at some point, in believing your thousand lies, has given you authority. "Semen and humble" therefore, and suggestions to you and especially seriously. Because the question you are raising again about the pandemic, Mr Giannoulis, is whether you welcome it clearly and clearly yesterday's post by Mr Polakis, who actually says 'those who have no subjects under 65 should not be vaccinated'. We're waiting for your answer. Do you have an answer? Do you welcome it or do you condemn it? I mean, at last! And will you tell us that we're supposed to catch votes looking at the Church? Mr Kellas told you very well what happened last year. And we closed the churches, in fact at a mental cost, in order to limit the pandemic. Who really speaks in this Chamber? Do you forget that you carved Mr. Friends because he said to abolish the Religious, to which of course we are opposed, so as not to lose Mr. Kammenos and not to lose authority? And you're saying that we're looking politically? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, one minute, on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u148	No, Mr. Giannoulis, there's nothing wrong with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u149	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u150	There's nothing wrong with it, Mr. Giannoulis. It's secondary, you're rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u151	It's a lie! There's no way!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u152	Oh, no. There's no way you guys can give me a hint!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u153	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u154	Not a second. He didn't say anything. As I said before to Mrs Arabatzis 'he said nothing', so to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u155	It's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u156	No, he didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u157	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u158	No, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u159	Mr. President, will you allow a lie to exist in the air?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u160	I'm not leaving any lies, and please don't interrupt me. MEP Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas asks for a leave from abroad from 4 to 11 to 7-11. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u161	The House approved the requested permission. He better go and mostly come back! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on requests from the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. A further discussion on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is hereby declared: "Driving safely: Modernising a framework of training and examination of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, provisions on the driving of disabled persons, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest, other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other emergency arrangements". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-four articles, seven amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u162	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u163	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u164	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Driving safely: Modernising a framework for the training and examination of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, provisions concerning the driving of disabled persons, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest, other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other emergency arrangements’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u166	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the supplementary agenda for legislative work: 1. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part’. 3. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Preparation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part'. 4. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’. The above bills were passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and were brought to the House under Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of these conventions may, if they so wish, take the floor for five minutes, provided that the President of the Parliament does not speak. The vote on the four conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u167	The House has agreed. Does a colleague want to take the floor from those who object, please? It is the JRC, Mera25 and the Greek Solution with reservation for New Zealand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u168	Are we all talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u169	All of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Logiadis, the special speaker from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries, third countries, usually take a step-by-step step. A framework agreement is initially signed, or else a strategic partnership agreement, which is the basis of free trade agreements, which is the final one. In this gradual process, the European Union has started implementing it as a response to the lions in favour of free trade and capital movements agreements concluded with African mainly countries, such as the first agreement setting up a mutual framework of understanding and cooperation that goes beyond trade and capital financial transactions by taking into account issues such as the defence of common values and principles of democracy, the promotion of peace and security, the control, the eradication of weapons of mass destruction, crime, terrorism, disaster management, humanitarian action, science, technology, information society, the environment and climate change, energy, health, the fight against corruption and organised crime, cyberspace, migration, protection of personal data, education, youth, sport and culture. In this way, the European Union wanted to show that it is not a neo-colonial force that simply wants to exploit weak countries, but rich in raw materials and cheap work, but growth and stability. The four agreements between the European Union and Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Japan which we are debating today obviously neither of these countries is characterised by growing or stubborn neo-colonial exploitation. The opposite may be true. Nevertheless, the European Union's commercial capital financial agreements with them follow the formal agreement - framework cooperation and free trade agreements. So these four agreements, which Parliament is asked to ratify today, are framework agreements for the first stage. Of the four countries, the Asians, Japan and Singapore, signed on the same day and a free trade agreement with the European Union, while Australia and New Zealand are in negotiations, having agreed only on the framework, while still remaining in the first stage. The agreements of this kind are embodied in our neoliberal globalised world, having as a balance the interests of the very few and very large, of the oligarchs and not of the peoples. This is clear even from the framework agreements from which labour issues are glowing by their absence. Obviously this is not some common value, a common principle of cooperation, but it is expected. The driving force behind globalisation, as it is done, is social dumping and free trade agreements which invest in it, where social dumping - social dumping - social dumping - we are talking about exploiting the lowest labour costs in a country, be it direct wage costs - lower wages - or non-wage costs, namely insurance, working conditions, health, safety, etc. They are agreements that determine and bind their parts, their peoples, of course, in the interpretation of them. Article 48 of the European Union-Austria Framework Agreement refers to cooperation in the field of energy by indicating the objectives of this cooperation. In point g, therefore, it is referred to as a objective - I read precisely - 'the achievement of rational use of energy by contributing both to supply and demand, by improving energy efficiency in energy production, transmission, distribution and end-use of energy'. We want to congratulate Mitsotakis S.A. on her zeal to apply agreements before - I stress - they are even ratified in Parliament before there is even a trade agreement between the European Union and Australia. The anonymous company here has rushed to divest the DEDDIE, the electricity transmission and distribution network of our country, the monopoly on the Australian highly controversial company MACQUARIE to EUR 2 billion, while the value of the DEDDI is estimated at EUR 10 billion. That is all we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. You are currently bringing about ratification of four agreements in the context of our country's compliance with international obligations as a Member State of the European Union. We cannot even point out here that we as a country are also called upon to comply with the obligations we have as a Member State, but on the other hand, the European Union and the other Member States must also fulfil their obligations toward us, and they too must take the load, the burdens that are due to them and their responsibilities. The policy of "giving some crumbs" to keep illegal immigrants on its territory, provided they don't see them, they don't live in their own countries, they have to stop at some point. This is not a fair and equal treatment for a Member State - and much more solidarity there is no solidarity, the fundamental value of the European Union, which so often invokes it, but in practice things are very different. In other words, our country must not only give, take, have something to gain from the agreements it ratifys. I now come to the agreement with New Zealand, which was signed in Brussels in 2016 and Australia in 2017 in Manila, with a view to strengthening relations in various areas of cooperation. Here we should point out that the sensitive information of the states should be protected, while cooperation on sustainable development in developing countries and humanitarian aid should be made in line with the needs of our country and Greek citizens. It should be on the basis of the situation that has been created with illegal immigrants and Turkey's aggressive policy. Specifically for bilateral trade between Greece and New Zealand, it has been noted that it has shrinked in recent years, while compared to the agricultural species and other primary products mentioned in the agreement, New Zealand is mainly the one exporting dairy, meat and fish species. Furthermore, in relation to cultural goods and access to them it is necessary - in our opinion - to return to the country of origin. In Australia now - especially there - there is a great cave of Hellenism, with our cause making us truly proud. Moreover, on the basis of the framework agreement with Australia, dialogue and cooperation on trade and investment matters can value trade liberalisation, with a view to global economic development, but in any case the needs of each State should be taken into account. We note that Australia is a great force in the agricultural and livestock sectors, while in the scarves and the free trade agreement between the European Union and Australia. The agreement now with Japan was signed in Tokyo in July 2018, while the agreement with Singapore in October 2018 in Brussels to strengthen relations in various areas of cooperation. In this context, moreover, the purpose and general principles are indicated. We mention the consolidation of international peace and stability, the promotion of common values, the defence of the principles of democracy and the rule of law. This is all very nice, of course. The question is how to act. Moreover, in relation to internationally agreed tax standards and the elimination of harmful tax practices, it is important to stop the unrelenting tax policy on the part of the state in Greek households, especially in the middle class. As far as the control of emitted pollutants is concerned, I must mention the situation in our country. We report it every day, of course, but today we're just going to make a report. Greece, which is rich in lignite, instead of exporting electricity, eventually shuts down and imports. Now, in particular with regard to the agreement with Singapore, let us first say that this country has emerged as one of the largest trading centres and, above all, the world's shipping centres. With this in mind, but also given that our country is a great maritime power, and on a global scale, the various cooperations could strengthen our country's position even more, consolidate and develop its potential at international level. Let us not forget that many Greeks are working on ships and therefore maritime development and related policies, such as transport and investment, stimulate the economy and strengthen employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mr. Ioannis Delis is called in Stepma by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u176	These are, ladies and gentlemen, similar agreements and, in some respects, almost identical to those which we are discussing, namely the agreements between the European Union and New Zealand, Australia, Japan and Singapore. I told them in the order signed by the European Union from 2016 to 2018, where then, of course, the government in our country was SYRIZA. The most important thing, however, perhaps the most noteworthy, apart from their content, is the geography of these agreements between the European Union, New Zealand, Australia, Japan, Singapore, a region in the Indonesian, that is to say. The European Union's interest is not random. It concerns a geographical area where 60% of world GDP is produced and in the years to come, it will represent 70% of the increase in energy demand. These are countries important in the critical field, the Indian geopolitical field, a field that is evolving rapidly and in a huge theater of wild imperialist competition. The most recent episode of these competitions was the well-known AUKUS agreement, namely the new security partnership established by the United States, Great Britain and Australia with a view first of all to the confrontation with China and sovereignty in this critical region. This, of course, has also made the contradictions within the Euro-Atlantic bloc more pronounced at the same time, signalling a new intensification of intra-Imperialist competitions across the scale. And to these very competitions is the recent much-advertised Greek-French agreement. The creation of AUKUS itself has been very intense in military preparation since the beginning in a geographical area, such as the Indonesian, with too many open fronts, while the countries in the wider region - and not only - are increasingly called on to take a stand. In other words, neutrality is prohibited. Now, according to a recent communication from the European Commission, 'the Indonesian region' - it is worth reading the relevant passage - 'This region is becoming increasingly strategically important for the European Union. The growing economic, demographic and political importance of the region makes it a key factor in shaping the international order and addressing the global challenges. There is a close link between the European Union and the Indonesian region.’ 'The European Union is already the leading investor and the main partner for development cooperation in the Indonesian region, as well as one of the largest trading partners in the region. The Indonesian and Europe share jointly over 70% of world trade in goods and services, as well as over 60% of foreign direct investment flows. "The current dynamics in the Indonesian" - be careful! - "it has, however, caused strong geopolitical competition, strengthening the growing tensions in trade and supply chains, as well as in the fields of technology, policy and security. The European Union has therefore decided to intensify its strategic cooperation with the Indonesian region. Furthermore, the European Union will endeavour - and it itself says so - to carry out even more common exercises and ports with partners in the Indian region, including multilateral exercises, in order to combat piracy and to protect free shipping in the region. Of course, because of AUKUS the European Union's talks with Australia on a more advanced free trade agreement have been temporarily frozen, and with New Zealand and Japan all the obstacles to such agreements have not yet been removed. It seems that for Singapore things are evolving better for such a free trade agreement. All because the European Union is, as we have said, launching the strengthening of European groups through the so-called free trade agreements, which are, in fact, seeking to open up these markets to the European capital. Let's take a look at these agreements. I read from the rapporteur's report again: 'Makes a contribution...' - says - '...importantly strengthen their overall partnership through deepening political and sectoral cooperation and strengthening joint actions on issues of common interest, including regional and global challenges'. The meaning here lies in the last part, where it speaks of regional and global challenges. They will also enable the Union to play a more active role in the wider region, which is also beneficial to the Greek side, namely for the Greek business groups and for the Greek urban order and not, of course, for the Greek people. These agreements, of course, are basically economic agreements, which are made not for the mutual interests of the peoples - they are not and could not have such a character that agreements between capitalist states and associations of capitalist states - but for the penetration and business activities of large groups and in an environment that is becoming increasingly competitive with cooperation and conflicts. In these, then, the business aspire to take part also some - possibly - Greek business groups. That is the whole point in relation to all four agreements. As a JRC, we will therefore vote against the first two agreements with New Zealand and Australia, as they are imported in turn. And I now move on as quickly as possible to the next two agreements with Japan and Singapore, which are an attempt again by the European Union to leave a strong print and to gain even more space against its competitors. These two agreements, of course, are also the precursor to the imminent free trade agreement, as it seems, of course, agreements that will open up for these markets for the European Union's funds to increase the export of funds. She's the one that's growing up. It will not increase the export of democracy, but the export of capital. The agreement with Singapore, in addition to the economic importance it has for the European Union and for the monopolistic groups, is of particular geopolitical importance because of the strong competition that is evolving in Asia between the United States and China and the European Union's attempt not to be isolated from the region, but also these complex relations between the European Union and China, which are treated by the European Union and as a partner, but also as an adversary to their recent agreement, which has also caused a strong response, as we have seen, to the United States, and also within the European Union, from parts of the capital that are competitive and not in cooperation with the Chinese monopolies. The Free Trade Agreement with Singapore is important for the interests of the Euro-Union monopolies, but also for the rapid growth in Singapore's capitalism, the most powerful in the ASEAN countries, the well-known link between the South-East Asian States. With a total of EUR 208 billion in goods transactions and EUR 77 billion in service transactions ASEAN as a whole is the European Union's third largest trading partner, following the United States and China. With EUR 263 billion in 2016 in ASEAN, the European Union is the first direct foreign investor in ASEAN, while ASEAN as a whole is in turn the second largest foreign direct investor from Asia to the European Union with EUR 116 billion. Singapore is now the European Union's largest partner and represents about 1/3 of the European Union's total transactions with ASEAN and almost 2/3 of investments. Over ten thousand European Union operations are located in Singapore and use it as a hub for the entire Pacific. Of course it is also known that the choice of Greek armaments capital in this region, that country of Singapore, is probably the case. With this and the economic war that is mitigating with the United States, which see this region as a region of strategic importance, and which has been the most aggressive policy since they left TTP and China in the region, the European Union's agreement with Singapore is of a strategic nature, as you can see, for European Union business groups. The liberalisation of markets, services, investment, the free access of European Union enterprises to public procurement, particularly the public utility market, the removal of trade barriers, the protection of investors, as you can only understand the interests of business groups. What does that mean to workers? They mean a lot of exploitation, a crush on the self-employed and all small professionals and farmers. It means nothing more than a intensity of exploitation for all those workers who, of course, work in these countries, in the well-known working founders of the so-called Asian 'tigers'. Let us remember here the 'carrot', a modern worker disease in Japan since the over-intensiveization of their work. In other words, we are talking about the complete elimination and intensification of labour. All this is meant for workers, because profits are for large capital and business groups at the same time. As you can see, we are also voting against the next two agreements with Japan and Singapore. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u177	Be well, Mr. Delis, and I thank you. We are now going to the Parliamentary Representatives. First he will speak, as requested, Mr. Scandalidis will speak from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few words about the agreements. I think there's a common place. The Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and New Zealand, as well as the Australian agreement undoubtedly attempt to promote and strengthen European principles and values and therefore move in a positive direction. By covering a wide range of issues, from democracy and human rights to the environment and social rights, the two agreements support the values and principles of the Member States, and open up new opportunities for economic, trade and cultural exchanges and cooperation. At the same time, the strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and Japan, which we are to ratify today, opens up a new chapter of cooperation, dialogue and exchange at multiple levels with one of the world's largest economies. We must not forget that the states of the European Union and Japan share views on a number of issues, supporting an open world trade system based on clean and beneficial rules for all. Our party in this process has always had a positive view, a positive crisis and a positive vote. But the reason why I have spoken today is because I want to talk again about the major issue of topicality, because I think that the tragic situation that the country is experiencing at this time would be incomprehensible to leave us at least for a moment of indifference. Citizens feel Babel's ballot of the different languages they speak - with the government's initiative and leadership - the opposition parties, epidemiologists and epidemiologists, journalists and all kinds of civilian groups who feel the need to take their place. To continue this climate under the depressing burden of the deaths and all we have been living at this time, I think it is the government's responsibility, which is almost exclusively and gains a huge political burden. In my opinion, the government must answer a few questions which I think come to everyone's lips in this Chamber, but also in the lips of every citizen, and which concern why people die here, when the other European countries have reached little deaths. Neither does the scientific community explain it, nor does the government. Why is primary care in dissolution and why is primary care continuously degraded? How many people enter hospitals in time from the people to whom the virus is being traced? Could the system not welcome them, because it is downgraded and paralysed, without anyone interested in how it will be enlarged, so that this delay creates the risk of more deaths? Why don't you make a general decision on compulsory vaccination of those who come in contact with a lot of people every day, such as churches, civil servants and public transport workers? Why is the daily briefing of the vaccination course never mentioned how many of them are new vaccinations, that is to say, when the overall comparison we have reached is assumed to show us, at 60%, and how many new vaccinations are made every day, so that we can understand how few they are? We're talking about a thousand eight hundred, two thousand, two and a half thousand, which means we'll never get to 80%. This means that the programme has achieved not organisational but politically and communications. Why don't you interfere with the uninterrupted politics of the epidemics and the epidemic of the ministers that are confusing, uncertainty, insecurity and terror in every Greek house? I'm not talking about media manipulation or a muzzle for government officials. I am talking about agreements and joint commitment to the appalling problem that we are experiencing, within the framework of democracy and the safeguarding of democratic processes. The government has to stop here and now avoid and resort to selective semi-metres, to handle the case only on the basis of communal and electoral criteria. It must stop watching the public sphere and the ESS dissolving and washing its hands. They do not fit rationally:'25% must be ignored. Now we have the vaccine and those who want it, let them do it. Let others take their responsibilities" or even logical intergroup scientific committees that do not have a place when we live a theater of absurdity that progresses forward in the eyes of citizens. I'm worried about the legend of a new division this time with a victim of people's own lives. You're out of your mind. In my opinion, there is a need for another provision of power. Another way of shaping the front that serves humanism and scientific truth is needed. Another communication policy is needed by the government, with the responsibility and participation of the parties on the democratic arch. They need all of this. We believe that there is still, even now, the possibility of changing policy. We've submitted a series of measures. We have tabled our proposal both at this time and at this juncture, and indeed the responsible parliamentary sector, Andreas Poulas, has tabled very detailed proposals for this. I would therefore like to bring these proposals back to the fore today and to present to Parliament our own proposals to deal with the crisis. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Scandalides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have already reached zero. One must shake down the pond waters of a dead-end confrontation on people's health. The country expects greater responsibility, greater seriousness and obviously a solution to its major problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. Mr. Theodores Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these four agreements which come to the House to be ratified are of interest to each other. They were discussed in the committee responsible. From the side of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Theodora Jakri explained our position on the framework agreement with Australia and on the partnership with New Zealand and on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand on the partnership with the Republic of Singapore and the partnership with Japan. These are all the agreements of the European Union. Our position is positive. We have voted in favour of these four agreements. However, what matters - and I believe that this House must now - are these differences of opinion with regard to the role of the European Union and how a conservative or progressive one, one right one left or one in every respect, as well as seeing it, the attitude of the political forces can contribute to the progressive development of things. Europe, unfortunately or happily, is historically, socially and politically the only one visible at the moment in the world - I wish there would be more soon, with such historical, cultural, social and other relations - which can put a strong expectations of change and the sectors throughout the world through the process of political and social integration. And Europe's weakness does not favour this. This is a fixed position of the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance with which we, unlike the right-wing, New Democracy, believe that Europe is the area of the sovereignty of capital and economic interests and that Europe must be made possible in global economic competition or with the nationalist side - or even nationalist very often - of the fact that good and honest Greece must be kept separately. Of course, the position of the Communist Party of Greece is quite different, but in our view it does not take into account the set of data and makes a very unilateral approach to things. From this point of view, promoting universal relations in Europe and, at the same time, constantly raising the question that the political unification of Europe can only be democratic, socialist, equal and equal, with social justice and with the limitation or disappearance of inequalities and of all kinds of discrimination, so this complex and necessary policy which takes into account both international and national data is absolutely essential. With that logic, we come to the vote. We have also taken the initiative as a government. Our rapporteurs stressed this. You will tell me: 'You can point out contradictions'. Of course, there are many contradictions. But the contradictions are the essence of politics. Contrasts are the essence of overcoming, forming and prospects of broader expectations. And I would just like to take this opportunity - and it is not just an opportunity, but it is the exact juncture and rightly Mr Scandalidis has previously stood up to it - to say that this universality that is different from capitalist neoliberal globalisation is a field that we are facing throughout the critical situation and the issue of pandemic. Not to say about the question of accuracy, the new distribution of citizens' purchasing power around the world, etc., but to say about the death pandemic. And we have the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew at the beginning of the pandemic last year against these false dilemmas of so-called Christians and believers toward the unfaithful and atheists and Tsipras who are atheist and does not understand all this nonsense, saying in a word all about the subject. He said: “The faith is not at stake. Faithful people are in danger!' What else do we need to deal with these foolish choices by Mr Mitsotakis, who, instead of taking his responsibility, raises questions about who they are loyal, who are not, which are issues of top personal choice? And say something else. The Church - because I do not belong to the faithful, but I belong very deeply to the people who respect the faithful and respect the Church and respect religion and all religions - does not want a policeman from the outside to control, is the same organization - and the priests and ministers and the workers and the Christian crew, this is the Church - and has the opportunity to control. And the state must put it there - as in all areas of social action - the responsibility of all actors. I saw today that the Holy Synod sent a circular that recommends - yes, but it doesn't take steps...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u181	How does it not work?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u182	Top priests, however, Dodon and Mytilini raise even a question if the priests who are not vaccinated will cease to be paid. We don't make it that far. We're not penalizing practice. I would like to say, therefore, that the Church itself puts these things in place. And Mr Mitsotakis, against his refusal to assume his responsibilities, finds - and various other factors in the New Democracy - to raise a question of who is loyal and who is not and who wants religious in schools, catechism and functionality or the history of religions and all these serious issues. Well, it's a top issue pandemic, it's a universal issue. To convince people to be vaccinated, but also to be careful and self-protected, we need above all to believe it and not to incorporate this necessity into micro-party choices. When the Opposition - and the Opposition and all - judges the Government for its tragic deficiencies and tragic failures, it does so in a documented manner and not to take advantage of the government's failure. We want the government to succeed in this and the government denies even the call to achieve and save lives. Finally, stop your irresponsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Boukokouros, has the floor and we will be closing with the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would begin with what the Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement said in the productive and positive direction, but after the intense tone of an issue that is not offered by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, I am obliged to highlight a number of things, because the only concrete proposal that SYRIZA has put forward so far to deal with pandemic is the blockade of believers in their attendance to churches. No other concrete proposal has been made. But we are talking today about the percentage in adults has reached 73%, about the churches we deeply believe that as meeting places are safer than other meeting places, because everyone bears their masks and keeps their distances, and above all we ask SYRIZA not to address New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis on this subject, because it was New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis who did not have the experience of implementing measures and control, closed the churches last year. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that we did not Easter in 2020. Wasn't the government's measures then? And now comes the government, which has the vaccine accessible to everyone, which has been vaccinated by 73% of adults and says that the churches cannot be controlled by the state, because the churches do not function only during their ritual processes, they are open every day and accessible to the public. However, it also disproves you the strict circular issued today by the Sacred Sacred Synod. It protects our Church with this circular, as it determines as the competent councils of the churches to control the invasive ones who will only come to the churches by rapid test. In other words, a proposal has been tabled and it has been disproved and collapsed within a single day. So the Church does it itself with its autonomy. So you, on the one hand, beat the banners and flags for separating the state and the Church, and on the other hand, you say that the state should go and impose measures on the operation of the churches. However, the Permanent Sacred Synod itself and many hierarchs take the lead in the fight for vaccinations. And such a hierarch is also the one from my own region, Metropolitan Demetrias and Almyros, Mr Ignatios, who has launched a huge campaign in favour of vaccination last summer. And you come to question what? Do you give credentials to the anti-Christian circles? You're looking for a audience? What exactly are you doing? So the Church is a meeting place safer, in our view, than others, because distances are also kept and masks are worn by the believers and they do not talk to each other and they do not shout and come into contact. It is a place of reflection, worship and absolute silence. Therefore, do not seek electoral audiences to those who are permanently and unnecessarily opposed to the Greek Orthodox Church. That is the answer and not that the government is being voted on with the measures it has taken. Now, for what Mr Scandalidis said: surely efforts are being adapted...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u185	I mean, they're conspiring.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u186	Please, Mr. Dritsa. You weren't interrupted by Mr. Bukokouros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u187	...in the new circumstances. There's no doubt it's an unprecedented pandemic. However, we are talking today about six and seven thousand cases, ladies and gentlemen, when the number of daily tests has reached four hundred thousand, when last year we have not even reached a hundred thousand. The tests were sixty, seventy thousand. We'll look at morbidity. And there changes are not as noticeable as the number of cases indicates. The hard numbers of pandemic, however, are not different from the rest of the countries, because we do not know, the scientific community has not notified us how it treats every region of Europe or world any new mutation, how the climate conditions and daily habits of humans affect the contagion of each mutant. We do not know that. We're actually going to an unknown field. The hard numbers are therefore not different from the other countries. The number of deaths per million from the beginning of pandemic until now is around the European average. In fact, we are saddened by the image we see in neighbouring countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, with which, of course, neither the health system nor the economic potential of our country is compared. And, of course, it scares us also the possibility of an even greater spread of the virus. The second hard number is the intubated number. There we have a raise, but we have certainly not reached the scary last year - let me call them - numbers of intersected patients. Consequently, the measures announced by the government, which will apply from the coming Saturday, in addition to what I said, are aimed at three things: Firstly, those who followed the advice of the scientific community and were vaccinated cannot lose their rights and cancel their return to freedom. Secondly, the economy is not closed, because the cost of economic, educational, social and psychological costs - and I could say much more - is very great. We are all aware of this and agreed to this almost all of the political forces, because no political force has said to close everything from the beginning of the pandemic until its final fight. No political force has expressed such an opinion. Thirdly, the intransigent citizens - some people have their fears, which are respected, some are negative to vaccines - must be more controlled. That's where the measures announced are aimed. Does any political power disagree that the invaders should be more controlled and that it is a cause for the transmission in particular to the cycles of uninvasive fellow citizens who are not armored and the consequences of their contamination are much heavier and their lives are at risk? Haven't we seen the other tough number of people who die today? The statistic doesn't read it the way it suits us. Of the people who die today from a coronary, do we not see that more than nine out of ten are invasive? Should the invasive ones not, then, be more inspected? We believe that, with any mistakes and any weaknesses towards an unknown enemy, the government is adjusting its measures in accordance with the expert's instructions. The general picture of the country since the pandemic began to date is no worse than the European States' average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, Mr Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I can speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u190	No, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u191	Do we have agreement sanctions and are we talking about the pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u192	They are parliamentary representatives, they are not rapporteurs. They have the right to deal with the news as well. What can we do now? Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u193	Fortunately, someone should talk about ratification of agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u194	Don't swear! That's all he heard. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to talk much about the agreement issue. I think they were very teaching, both the positions of the representative of the Communist Party of Greece and the representative of SYRIZA. Each one of his side, one justifies why he is voting against and another justifies why he is voting for, basically they gave us the framework. Yes, we are making agreements with an area of the planet which is rapidly growing, with which we have very serious economic relations, and through these agreements we do not export what you imagine, a globalisation of bad content and of rights suppression, but we export modes of operation, democracy, transparency, respect for human rights and relations based on common rules. That actually makes Europe through these agreements to export the principles and values we serve in the European Union. That's right, Mr. Dritsa put it. Yes, Europe is the place where there is greater democratic cooperation on the planet, there is mutual respect for unreserved principles and values, there is respect for human rights, for the sensitive personal data that has been mentioned. The agreements are good to read them as long as the debate in the committee has taken place to see that there are specific articles on the protection of sensitive personal data, and on the exporting of the rules we are currently applying in Europe, namely that there are also those countries with which we are trading. It is therefore essentially our closest commitment to very strong trading partners on the basis of common values. And I think this is the way in which Europe can export the only thing it has achieved to date, to be an oasis of peace seventy years now, an oasis of cooperation, an oasis of economic development, an oasis of protection of human rights and the protection of workers' rights. We have the biggest social-state indicator from all over the planet, we have social data protection as much as any place on the planet. Neither in the former Soviet nor in the current communist, such as China, there is no such respect for human labour. So we're good. And I will tell you this: of course these countries are central countries, not their geopolitical position, for the economic cooperation we have. And I wish we could finally get to the Singapore level, which has EUR 90,000 per capita income and which, as you quite rightly said, thousands of European companies have chosen as their head office in the South-East Asian markets. These agreements then come with the trade agreements. With Singapore, for example, we have a trade agreement and, as I have shown to you and the Commission, the trade agreement with Singapore is the one that has protected products with the designation of origin of Greece because in Singapore it has become the only legal dispute to challenge the Greek feta which concerns us very much for our exports and which has not been brought to a judicial decision, since the American company that wants to use the term "feta" has finally withdrew its request following the activation by the Greek authorities of the appeal procedure in Singapore. Mr President, as you have rightly said, on a number of issues relating to the pandemic. We live in a period of coronary elevation. The WHO is already talking about Europe about a rapid increase in the number of people infected. However, what burns us above all is how much we can protect life within our own health system. So from the simple statistical element that 95% of the people who are treated in the IF are inconsistent, we conclude that we need to increase the rate of vaccination. That's the reality. Many vaccinated have been diseased and passed with loose symptoms or with any symptom. The point is that we don't lose human lives because they weren't vaccinated and exposed to the virus. Everything else is just trying to talk about it. Mr. Dritsa, no one believes you in SYRIZA for a simple reason because you require the state to impose on the church compulsory measures which you did not support when it imposed them on the hard core of the public sector that has to do with dealing with the pandemic. In other words, when we imposed compulsory vaccination on health workers, on hospitals and on those who protect our life in the ICUs, you were across the street. Today you want us to impose a hard limit on the church.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u196	To provide rules for the sacred temples and to entrust their observance. No one imposes anything, but the state can't be absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u197	So this is what the Church of Greece did today with a circular that it issued for the rules with which the sacred temples will operate. If you want my opinion, there were the hierarchs who, in fact, came out front and fighting, some other hierarchs unfortunately did not come out as much as they should have been, a part which does not concern the faithful of the Orthodox Church of Greece, but it is about other religious communities in Greece, it is against vaccination, as if there is some saint who says that we should not listen to medicine and we should not listen to doctors in relation to our salvation. You were right to say that the Ecumenical Patriarch put it quite simply: our faith is not in danger, the believers are in danger, and we must protect the believers and of course protect human life. But we also need civil society at some point - and we welcome today's circular of the Greek Church - to understand the danger that those who refuse to be vaccinated, a danger that concerns themselves and the health system, the overcoming of intensive treatment units that can lead us to unpleasant, extremely painful, images that we have seen in our neighbours in the past and are seeing today in other neighbouring countries, such as the images transmitted by Bulgaria and Romania, which today call on all neighbouring countries, if they can, to accommodate patients from their countries, because their own have been saturated. This is the great risk, and I would really like to see this great danger, which seems to be before us, that there is a unanimous challenge and an invitation to the citizens to raise the wall of immunity so that we can not get to difficult times and difficult choices. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, we should also wish the Patriarch a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u200	Passing to the Patriarch. The debate is closed on the principle and on the articles of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' bills and they will be voted on separately. We are entering the resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Liberation of the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u201	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u202	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u203	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority of the united majority on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u204	We proceed to vote on a single motion for a resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u206	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u207	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part’, has been accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u208	We proceed to vote on a single motion for a resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u210	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u211	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Resolution of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part’, has been accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u212	We proceed to vote on a single motion for a resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u214	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u215	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority of the united majority on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u217	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-04-S1-commons.u218	With the consent of the House at 14.35 hours the sitting is closed for Friday, Friday, November 5, 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
