ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I am sure that I have your understanding of the delay in the start of today's sitting because of the visit to the Greek Parliament of His Holiness Panagiotis, the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, whose blessings allow me to pass on to all and all. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the Parliamentary Group "SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance" Mr Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on the crisis of accuracy and the absence of political will on the part of the Government to protect households and businesses. Under Rule 143(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the debate begins with the speech of the Prime Minister, following which the speeches made by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are followed. The duration of the speech by the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, which is taking place today's debate, is twenty-five minutes of the hour and twenty minutes for each of the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. My request, having mentioned the times, is to respect them, because the visit of the Panagiotto Ecumenical Patriarch continues after the House and early this afternoon will meet with the Prime Minister at the Maximos Mansion, so at 17.00 the debate, which may have been completed with a slight tolerance, at the time I announced, must be completed. The maximum number of those who can be present, according to the protocols, is, as you know, - up to two hundred MPs, and in particular this is divided into a hundred five for New Democracy, fifty-seven for SYRIZA, fifteen for the Change Movement, ten for the Communist Party of Greece, seven for the Greek Solution, five for the Mera25 and an independent MP. I would ask the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to take the floor for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to limit myself to the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I will now ask for the understanding of my colleagues, because at 17.00 I have a scheduled meeting with the Panagios Ecumenical Patriarch, but I believe that we can keep the timetables and have completed the debate in the next four hours. I am here today, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to what is reasonably relevant to the citizens at this time. And precisely because when we are speaking, we need to be precise, I will first describe the objective reality, invoking only official figures from the Greek Statistical Authority, but also Eurostat, because - I imagine you will agree with me - the course of the national economy, but also the daily life of the households is not offered either for inexpensive impressions or for cheap populism, but only for pure truths. First, then, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a global price crisis. The exit from the pandemic Lockdown brought to almost all the countries a sharp increase in demand and consumption without available products to cover it. This increased demand has indeed brought up prices, and these have chained inflation, and for them - but not only for these reasons - energy has been expensive, especially gas prices directly affecting our country, at the same time escalating the value of production, transport and also the end of the goods themselves. There is a great debate in the world community of economists and central bankers about the cause of this phenomenon. Most people claim - and I believe with documentary evidence - that the phenomenon we are facing today will be a temporary phenomenon that is linked to an unprecedented disturbance in the demand caused by the pandemic, but also to a rapid recovery which - to say it quite simply - has taken many companies unpreparedly, and has now made significant contributions to the global supply chain. But there is another point of view which claims that global inflation, which all developed economies are facing today, is the result of an extremely loose monetary policy by central banks. So perhaps this inflation has more permanent, more structural features. It is clear that the European Central Bank is in favour of the first view, hence it is extremely hesitant to increase interest rates, which would actually lead to a halt to the strong growth potential observed in Europe as a whole and which Mrs Lagard believes - and in this respect the Greek Government is drawing up - that this rise in prices which is being observed is the result of a temporary phenomenon which will begin to decline from the first quarter of 2022. This is not the first time, I want to remind you that we have had such inflationary trends in the world economy. A corresponding phenomenon was observed in the 2007-2008 financial crisis, but was also observed in the European debt crisis in 2010-2011. Then the basic goods and energy were revalued. And then there were extremely pitiful predictions of the perpetuality of the phenomenon, but it proved to be a temporary phenomenon. So now our appreciation, as I told you, is that we will begin to see a divergence in inflationary pressures in the first quarter of 2022. This is about the global economy. Let's go see now what the situation is in our homeland. Because it is too easy through the public dialogue not to have an accurate sense of image on the market. It may well be that there is a multiplier in the media. The question of accuracy “justly justified” sells TV. Mr Tsipras, I address you because you are the accomplices of today's debate by submitting the request for a prior-day sitting. The reality today is that Greece has the third best performance in Europe in terms of inflation, at least in October, with the European average being at 4.1%. Greece is at 2.8%. Countries such as Spain at 5.4%. Countries like Romania are 6.5%. It is very important, Mr President, in this debate that we agree on the basis of the information we invoke. So these are the official figures on inflation in October. Greece is going better than many European countries, and therefore the basket of basic products in our country remains proportionate - I stress it - cheaper than other European countries. If you see, Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, the food basket, the increase on a monthly basis is 0.1%. In Italy and France it is 0.7%, in Spain it is 1.3%, which means that in addition to arms sales in Turkey, we are not told very well by your young socialists and Podemos in dealing with accuracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u3	A friend of yours, isn't Sancheth?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u4	Did you ask me if Mr Sanchez is my friend? As far as I know, you sought to meet with Mr Sanchez when he was here. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And at the meetings of the Socialist Party you always choose to participate as an observer. Let's just leave that. We will have the opportunity to discuss them at another opportunity. So we come to the operative cause of the growths that are no longer, at least in our country, by the increases in electricity prices. Increases in electricity prices in total, as I said to you, are the result of a basic distortion created in the gas market. It has economic and geopolitical causes and it is a phenomenon which has had a structural impact on all European countries. As you know, the electricity price is now determined by a single European mechanism. The decisive parameter is the limit value of the current. It has been established by the high gas prices, which have led to historically high, at least in recent years, energy prices across Europe. So these are the data on which we should support today's debate. And I mention them, not obviously being reassured, because the slightest increase in prices makes people's lives difficult and prevents the development of the country. I did so because I want - and I will insist on this - to speak with real facts and not with lies or impressions of the moment. In other words, on the one hand, we are dealing with an exogenous, temporary phenomenon, in which, nonetheless, our country is responding actively and effectively on the other, because this national defence against the international wave of appreciation was not at all given, it did not succeed, but it succeeded and is the result of this government's economic policy. And I believe that it has succeeded and succeeded twice, because, with the emergence of the first trends of significant increases in energy prices, the government immediately proceeded with energy-saving measures and, secondly, because household income has been shielded for two years and because the policy which we boldly pursue keeps it stable in the difficult and dynamic future. First Greece, as early as September in my presence in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, announced state subsidies in electricity accounts, which we had to increase in the course of the process as the increases in gas prices were greater than we anticipated. We have doubled the strengthening of social tariffs, exempted for the next few months natural gas charges, suspended the payment of public utility services to businesses, and so we decided for next year and for diesel, a measure involving hundreds of thousands of farmers who are either young or involved in overall cooperative schemes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The total amount that the Greek Government has to support households and businesses in relation to increases in electricity and gas prices, namely, the support we provide to reduce overall electricity and heating costs, reaches 700,000 000 euros. It's 680,000,000 euros, actually. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you make a proportionate calculation, you will see that this support percentage, as the size of economic activity, is one of the largest that has been given to Europe. Of course, as you know, this year's heating allowance will be twice and will now be given on an entirely objective basis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With criteria that take into account the real weather conditions in each corner of the country. The relevant platform - as you know - has already been opened. And because I also speculate from your question that you will definitely refer to developments in the public electricity company, I would like to say to you, Mr Tsipras, that strong PPC is an ally in this effort. And, yes, PPC today is strong because you delivered it to us in the limits of bankruptcy and a few weeks ago it increased capital at a value of nine times the share you delivered to us, with the state still maintaining control! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A strong PPC, therefore, can absorb some of the gas price increases and thus support its consumers and obviously draw its competitors into a corresponding policy. It is a policy, which is also about prices but about how to pay, because the issue is not only the amount of the account it will need to pay off a household, but also the payment facilities that companies give, so that any increase is primarily about winter, can be shared over time and meet the real cash opportunities of households. We are therefore talking, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about a coherent and bold programme which is spread across all levels, from the primary sector and the processing to each household, to every corner of the country. All of this at the same time, with many parallel interventions, finally works relieving the price rise, because they increase the household income available. They are, in other words, converted into substantial countermeasures in the price indexes. I want to remind you of a lot of these measures. For example, I only mention some: 6% VAT on feed, something very important for our farmers, reduced VAT rates, which were also confirmed in the budget submitted a few days ago, means of transport, coffee at least by July 2022, and of course, a number of special interventions for young people have been launched along these lines. I would remind you of the abolition of the mobile telephony fee, the extension of subsidised insurance contributions for a hundred and fifty thousand jobs, but also the first sign, an innovative institution offering a chance to work and, at the same time, finances, with EUR 600, young workers at the start of their careers, in the first job, in the first sign to be stuck. Of course, the minimum wage increase. I have already announced that, apart from the already determined increase which will take effect from January 2022, there will be another second increase for our low-wage citizens in the year. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For, participation in development must all have the weakest, especially the weakest. One more thing. At the same time under the supervision of the Ministry of Development, controls on the market are also intensified, because we are well aware that sometimes a temporary disruption can turn into permanent speculation. This, in the context of the audit responsibilities available to the Ministry, will be prevented. At Community level, the country is leading, as you know, the creation of a new energy policy within the framework of Europe's strategic autonomy. We have tabled together with the Minister for Energy and the Environment, at the summit level, but also at the Council of Energy and Environment Council level, a number of proposals which can strengthen Europe's position as an important buyer in the gas market. As also to strengthen the position of all European states in the storage of natural gas - it is an area in which, unfortunately, our country still lacks - so that we can absorb the rapid fluctuations in gas price which we have unfortunately seen in recent months, particularly in the spot market. So these truths are complemented by another one, Mr Tsipras, which I consider to be the most important one. This is the increase in the average income of Greek households by 7.4% in two years, while in the rest of Europe this increase was just 3.5%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, not forgetting the weakest with our decision to grant for the month of December to beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income twice as much as they would normally receive. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why, then, can we today be able to talk about supporting available income and feel safer that we will overcome this temporary precursor of market appreciation? Because we have consistently implemented, as we have committed ourselves since 2019, a wider policy on tax evasion and development for all. Today, citizens pay less income tax, less ENPI, less contributions, all rates have fallen back, the payment tax under 800,000 euros has been practically abolished, the solidarity levy has been suspended in the private sector, which is why today households have more available income than they had on your own days. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is also confirmed by the very significant increase in the deposits of businesses and households, which has been recorded by all the Bank of Greece's figures for the last two years. Fortunately, this is about the Greeks, unfortunately SYRIZA - the reversal of the tax evasion which you have implemented for four and a half years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because life itself now proves that the reasoned reduction in taxation and contributions not only magnifies income, especially in the middle class, but also triggers employment and growth by creating many permanent jobs that already bring back many young people from abroad. Finally, for businesses, I do not need to mention in detail their relief and support measures in the pandemic, the covert of professional rents, the working capital, the highly successful "GEOFERIA 1" and "GEYRA 2", the deletion of a significant part of the repayable advance and, of course, the most favourable investment environment that brings our country more and more new investments. I will say again, however, something that must not be overlooked, that all this has happened and is done at the time when Greece, like the rest of the world, is fighting the coronary, at the time when Greece is facing national threats and challenges, but also having to manage, successfully, I believe, significant natural disasters. And yet, with more than 40 billion euros, this government supported the National Health System while at the same time keeping production and society up, it won the challenges, but in no way losing its direction. And that is why Greece, according to the Commission's estimates, has been showing the third largest growth in Europe over the next two years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] European Commission forecasts: 7.1% growth according to the European Commission for '21 and 5.2% for '22, cumulative growth for '21 and '22 12.3%. I believe, however, that the most important success of our policy is not the abstract figures of growth, but the real figures for reducing unemployment. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Greece is a champion in Europe, in the middle of a krone, in the decline of unemployment, in disgusting Kassandra and those who anticipated, many of whom are sitting at the headquarters of Officerial Response, that immediately after the removal of the support measures for the krone, unemployment in our country would be evacuated. It has been the exact same return, and it must be very badly trusted not to recognise that there is a very great investment interest in Greece today in domestic and foreign capital, which is creating faster than the one we have seen in the last fifteen years, many well-paid jobs. Talk a little bit to Brain's children, those who left Greece in your own years, to see why these children for the first time see a future in Greece, return to their homeland, trust the prospects of the Greek economy so that they can build their own future. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because we will always insist that the creation of new jobs is the most effective policy of reducing inequalities and the major disparities in our country today remain hidden in the subset of those of our fellow citizens, who are unfortunately long-term unemployed. That is where we turn all our policy's energy so that, first and foremost, we can be consistent with the commitment that we have made in the election process: jobs, jobs and jobs. These jobs are created by the New Democracy Government! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is therefore these successes in the economy that allow us today to defend ourselves, and it is the firm choice of reforms that give the country real potential for tomorrow. And that's not something I'm saying. It says this is the report of the European Support Mechanism that ranks Greece third in the world, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, in Europe on the basis of support measures to tackle the pandemic and, in particular, their effectiveness in their social footprint. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we overcome this new problem of international unemploy­ment, but also without getting out of the path of progress, which we have all achieved together, knowing as I said to you that we are going for '21 and '22 at a very high rate of growth, with an increase in employment, with an increase in investment, with increased public cash reserves, with the full creditworthiness of the state, but always in our mind that this great overindulgence of support for the economy and society in the middle of a coronary, yes, has created in our country, as in all other countries, significant primary deficits, in the case of Greece of 7%. So from now on, our moves must be effective, but also extremely measured, not just sound good, but they can be applied properly. In other words, they should not build handmade today, but they should drug each other tomorrow and our children. We paid very expensively as a country benefits that were either veil or ultimately concealed new taxes. We are no longer only called upon to comment, but to plan and implement. And that is why I regret that the party of Officerial Response continues to perpetuate demagogic and completely unspeakable measures in the public debate. I have carefully read what Mr Tsipras lists in his question. Unfortunately, it was once more a photocopy of the past. Indeed, in a country where there is a need for constructive dialogue, I do not think they have such lists of wishful but ultimately empty slogans. I have only seen yet another inappropriate programme of the Thessaloniki type worth several billion, which of course do not exist and which of course could never be done by any law and any article. On my side, on the front against accuracy, I would like to add today and with a better picture of how time will close, seeing the numbers of November and December, three more initiatives to support our fellow citizens. Firstly, as happened in 2020 and as I have repeatedly committed myself to public, about 100 thousand active health workers in hospitals, in the EAEC and in health centres, will be supported by an extraordinary payment of half the wage! [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] An average amount of about EUR 900 will be assigned immediately in December. It is the least we can today from what we owe them. Secondly, all the low pensioners in the country will receive an additional 250 euros, increased by 50 euros for each member of their family. [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] So, eight hundred thousand of our fellow citizens will see their next pension bigger. It's a relief, it's nothing more. It's not what they deserve. This is something, however, which undoubtedly helps without undermining the course of our economy. And thirdly, the exact same allowance will be granted to a hundred and seventy-three thousand of our fellow citizens with disabilities! [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] This is, in effect, for all beneficiaries of the Welfare and Social Solidarity Agency. Of course, many institutional measures are needed for disabled people. But I am proud that this government, the New Democracy Government, is the first to have a structured, holistic and multi-level plan to tackle chronic injustices to the detriment of our weakest, most vulnerable fellow citizens. As a society we owe it, as a government, we say it and we do it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are thus complementing an integrated economic and social policy towards the juncture. We are responding to the short-term price rise, without in any case getting out of the avenue of reforms, and at the same time strengthening our reasoned fellow citizens without jeopardising the financial balance. In other words, we are moving in coherence and with a view. We might have a plan and a result. In no case do we claim infallibility, and that is why we are staying - and I will listen very carefully to the positions of all the parties' leaders - open to every realistic proposal. I would therefore ask, in particular, that the Qualified Opposition does not deny these initiatives, as it has unfortunately done with many support measures. As he did with the minimum wage, as he did with the minimum guaranteed income, as he did with the compensation of those who were hit by natural disasters. For both defence against temporary inflationary pressures and the management of the major strategic challenges, the country wants consensus, if not co-existence. He wants, if anything, a dialogue based on real data, if not an agreement. However, we do not need the negatives of science in pandemic and the negatives of rationale in the economy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I'm closing up with an appeal. Do not say here again, Mr Tsipras, what you have said in your request. Leave the unconscious, easy slogans, the fake words of the great. After all, you have a great, assured personal background when discussing inconsistency of words and works. And in your protology I'd like you to answer just. Do you accept or vote against the important smoothing measures in the electricity accounts? The cheapest oil, the cheapest feed for our farmers. And you also agree or disagree with the extraordinary reinforcement of our health, low pensioners and disabled fellow citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So respond immediately afterwards to the millions of our fellow citizens who concern them. And together - and I close with this, Mr President - all the Greeks, who, especially in your case, have been taught by the saying of Asympus: "Those who promise so much and great are not able to do the few and the small ones as well." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u5	Subsequently, the Chief of Staff Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras speaks for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I feel that those of our fellow citizens who attended Mr Mitsotakis' speech today will probably feel that he is addressing another country, another people, in another society, that - it is epic to say - he has not understood what the average Greek household is today experiencing. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I will also come to the designations and respond to all these designations about the "little" and "easy" that he and the "big" and the "big" that we promise. Before I come, however, I would like to place myself in total on the situation that the average Greek household, the average Greek business, is experiencing today, the real image of the Greek economy. But you will allow me, before I speak in detail, to make an assessment of what the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis presents. With his current position, in the midst of a sweeping wave of precision that plagues the Greek economy and every Greek citizen or at any rate the overwhelming majority of citizens, in my opinion, demonstrates his inability to respond to the real needs, the existential anguish of the majority of our fellow citizens and highlights four things: It shows a lack of understanding of the size of the crisis, a lack of comprehension, obsession with obsolete and failed economic recipes, and of course one, let me say, "ethicism" in the service of interests. It is a quadruple that outlines the attitude and behaviour of the current government for two years now. I'll be clear what I mean. Why am I talking about an understanding deficit? Not only because today he presented a picture of almost paradoxical, because today he told us that everything is fine, because in the inflation index compared to the other countries of the European Union we are better, but without taking into account the social indicators, the indicators relating to the minimum wage, the indicators relating to the purchasing power of the average Greek citizen, but also because, on the crucial issue of accuracy, we have not been dealing with the critical issue since September and then, when it seems to be seen, we are actually in the middle of a major crisis. From February last year, ten months ago, we asked the question of rising prices on raw materials at the time. In July we returned with a new timely question as a whole on the question of accuracy. The institutions from all over the economy, EKPIZO, the Institute for Consumers, GSEW, more recently industrialists, with communications and interventions have highlighted this problem. And what has Mr Mitsotakis' government been doing all this time? I guess he hadn't gotten a hammer that there's a problem, and mostly he didn't understand what it is that's coming. And today it seems that he doesn't understand. He is again talking about a temporary crisis that will retreat the next period, while it is a structural crisis. It's not only about Greece. It has to do with the European and global economy, with the transition process, in order to catch up with the goals we have all agreed on the Green Goal. It is, however, a process of transition which is done in a way which is extremely disgraceful and extremely unfair, a process of transition without substantial public investment in the green energy sector, in the green economy. This is the great international image. However, today I will come to explain why, in the context of this great international image, the international crisis has unlimited responsibilities, and the government of Mr Mitsotakis is also responsible, for the fact that the Greek society - particularly the weakest - is paying for it too much. So I talked about sloppiness, because in early September at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition Mr Mitsotakis first mentioned the question of accuracy and came to announce measures. Since then and until now almost every twenty-five days it announces measures, each time celebrating that these measures solve the problem and every time the measures it announces are so inadequate that it lasts more and more three days. Every miracle three days! First it announced EUR 9, then it announced EUR 18, then EUR 39 a subsidy on accounts, but increased from 80% to 150%. And it is not enough for us to be sloppy, but you also have this built propaganda to renounce you, that you supposedly took so brave steps that you solved the problems of Greek society and you yourself to reproducing this incredible picture of paradise. The average citizen listens to this, the average citizen listens to us today, the average citizen reads it, the television receivers watch it, and he thinks it is elsewhere. Especially when the electricity bill comes, he thinks it's in another country, when he goes to the supermarket and sees prices, and when the third week of the month comes. Why, you know, Mr Mitsotakis, there is a flaw in this Greek society that you might not know - you had to know - that the vast majority of Greek citizens, as you said, and you discovered, are dependent on their wages and in the third week of the month, they deprive their income. You tried to create a virtual picture with creative accounting. You told us that the available income has increased in the middle Greek family, citing some elements. Do you know how easy it is to pick up some data - real facts, I don't disguise it - in order to create a fake reality? What are you presenting to us? The second quarter of 2021 compared to the second quarter of 2020. What was the second quarter of 2020? It was the trimester of hard Lockdown. And, indeed, in such a confrontation, we also have a great deal of development today. Only it's recovery, it's not growth. We're down 9 percent, we're up now. And when you compare the second quarter of 2021 to the second quarter of 2020 it is indeed presented in the figures for an increase in available income. Except the accuracy of the large in the middle Greek family broke out in the third quarter of 2021. Come and see the same data for the third and fourth quarters. But so with creative accounting you know how to go with lies. So, having argued, in the Thessaloniki International Report, that with the crumbs you announced at the time - EUR 9 - you will not increase the electricity bill, and after you have had to increase them, double them - crumbs in relation to the real problem, so as not to be misunderstood, and the last euro is important in the public's pocket today - and to triple them, but still not enough for the great increases, what have you done? You went out to the media and told us that if you hadn't given them, the increases would have been ten times greater. Why didn't you say "thousand times bigger"? It's for free. Why didn't you say "thousand"? And you come again and again and repeat so-called measures and run behind developments and tell us that it is not your fault, but it is the global crisis. All right, we've learned this mole, global crisis the pandemic, but here we are champions in deaths all over Western Europe in a population ratio. World Crisis, but this is where most forests were burned in proportion to the country's area last summer. Global crisis and energy, yes, but here we are champions at wholesale prices throughout Europe. Well, hold on, there's something wrong here, something's wrong. We can't be worse everywhere and it's our bad weather, it's the circumstance, it's the fault of everyone else except those who rule us. In addition to lack of understanding and comprehension, I have a much more serious responsibility to blame. And I am referring to your ideological obsession with failed recipes for supposedly spontaneous and automatic market regulation. What have you done for so many months to intervene in market regulation mechanisms as you should? In which sectors are audits carried out and what fines have been imposed by the relevant departments and the General Secretariat for Consumer Protection? What exactly is the Energy Regulatory Authority doing? What exactly does the Competition Committee do? And don't answer me again "these are independent principles, we're not interfering", because you're fine to be involved in changing the leadership of the committee before the previous president's leadership even arrives in the middle of her term. So, are you responsible for the things that have been done and for the inertia of today's leadership, or are you not simply responsible, but are you hiding behind this inertia? Because I am learning that the President of the Competition Committee, who you, in the 'good morning', have asked you to adapt the institutional framework, to carry out cartel checks and harmonised practices on telecommunications, because in addition to a higher price in the wholesale price of electricity in Europe, Greece has a negative record - we are champions in accuracy - and mobile telephony charges. And I'll give you the relevant table based on ELSTAT's data. And before tax and after tax, the most expensive charge for telecommunications is in Greece. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And he asked you - I am learning - to reform the relevant institutional framework to make checks on cartels and harmonised practices in telecommunications. I also hear that he is asking you to strengthen the committee's powers so that he can carry out more control over the market and you refuse. How about you? The Minister of Development? Who refuses and why? Look, we're not in a relationship, I've never met this man myself, you have appointed him, but speak frankly, openly. This hideout of responsibility will not be tolerated. If you think he doesn't do his job well, if he doesn't, if you don't support him, say it! Because he either does not want to carry out controls and interventions or wants to do so, but the system of Maximos and the system of the Ministry of Development does not leave him, the result is one: cartels are uncontrollable and harmonized practices work at the expense of consumers in a period of sweeping precision that affects the economy and the Greek society. I now come to the fourth feature of your governance, which is perhaps the most merciful, the most immoral, let me say what I called addiction to service of interests, and of course always along with insistence on obsolete recipes for economic supposed development. Be careful, at the time of the hardest energy crisis, you have left the oligopoly in energy to perish and at the same time choose now to turn PPC from a protagonist to a compass. We no longer have PPC, 'D' does not exist, it is not public anymore. It is an electricity company, but without the 'D'. And you choose to hand over all energy policy tools to private individuals. PPC from where it had a social role, keeping prices low in competition and protecting the consumer, what is it now doing for two years, that is, as long as you govern? He's doing the exact opposite. It is starring at an uncontrollable rally of growth that you then supposedly come and shake with crumbs in relation to the real problem, lies and monumental clipping. But here I have to say that while you are extremely handy when you are going to protect consumers and when you are going to protect the social majority you are indeed extremely labouring - I have to account for this - extremely methodical and really shiny when it comes to closing deals, deals, agreements with interests, when it is to take the silver hammer out of the state. That's where you're transforming. In the case of PPC, it has not even hit you the fact that we are in the middle of this huge energy crisis. Determined, inconsistent, you have completed the assignment of PPC and its networks. Not even two months did it take you in an unprecedented way, with an increase in share capital from which the Greek State had blocked itself and even one week after your speech at the PPC, but where you hid this design. Since it was this great design to build a business that will be strong, why didn't you announce it? This is not a new case. It was a key request for our lenders to sell, to privatize PPC. At least the governments of the hard memorials they wanted or, in any case, they accepted the privatisation of PPC also anticipated a profit for the public. He wanted Samaras to sell 17% to build the little PPC to stay and a big supposedly. You guys don't even sell, you're assigned. And you also put on the pocket of the Greek public because it takes a small part of the capital increase, and so it is actually one of the 51% less than 34% by putting money, without winning. And, of course, this deal, speaking clearly now, did not regulate any market. It is no coincidence that at the moment a fund at all unknown to you, Mr. Mitsotakis, not at all unknown not the fund, but he or those who manage it, currently controls the area of private hospitals and the area of insurance. That's a little weird, isn't it? And PPC, in collaboration with other funds of course, which are known to work in coordination with the future of the company, and that this future has actually left the public. What our lenders failed in daylight with the blackmails and unbearable pressures we had accepted, what they failed, because we did not allow it in 2015-2019, you come and do it in one night. To be honest, you don't do it in one night, you do it at night! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because this plan has been working for a long time, you have been working on it for two years, you have been working on it since you were in opposition's headquarters when you publicly devalued the Public Power Corporation because it had been with negative balance sheet figures for a time of time. But this operation has not increased one euro for all Greek consumers for four and a half years. This operation for four and a half years has had social invoices. This operation for four and a half years retained current prices for all consumers. This was the public-private role of the Public Power Corporation. [[Applause lively and prolonged by the wing of SYRIZA]] This "D" you pull it back. Don't move your head. All you know to do is deals. Deals to work on BSE, deals to armaments, deals to insurance and the fund to manage supplementary pensions. Deals, and here in energy, in the Public Power Corporation. Deals with schoolgirls so students can't get into public universities. Deals and health for the clinicians! You're the government of deals. [[Applause lively and prolonged by the wing of SYRIZA]] It is not bad for anyone to make deals and deals at the time of the free market. But these deals are harming the Greek public and only favour a few. Do you know how much these cost? I will now tell you how much they have cost the Greeks and Greeks, who see increases in electricity bills go to God. Let me remind you of the following: we in April 2019, if you remember, Mr Mitsotakis, when you said that we are this shameful government, we took the country out of the Memorandum of Crisis, we increased 11% the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u7	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u8	Don't get upset. We have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister. Take some courage. So despite the fact that in 2019, the country came out of this crisis, you said that we were the worst government the place ever knew. It's your right. I would remind you, however, that this worst government the place has ever known not only increased the minimum wage, but in April 2019 it was the one that decided then to give for every May the social dividend that we gave for four years and you never gave, decided to give for every May the entire tenth pension for the low pensioners and half a pension for the highest pensions of pensioners. You come and while you promise to keep this you get these 900m euros and give them to individuals, to funds, who will manage subsidiary insurance. And you give them a dowry of EUR 900 million this year, which was what we then called the thirteenth pension, and you said it is crumbs. And so you did not give this dividend, this social allowance to the low-retired and older pensioners, nor in the spring of 2020 nor in the spring of 2021. And you come here today to announce 250 euros. The thirteenth pension was crustaceans, but 250 euros are a great social offer and a great social policy. But that's who you are! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But communication also has its limits. And the limits of communication always conflict with the merciless reality. When we announced the thirteenth pension and told us crumbs, we announced the reduction in the Value Added Tax on energy from 13% to 6%. And what did you do when you were elected? You have actually disappeared from this reduction by the consumer, as you increased the cost of energy. Good morning! And what did this increase in energy costs mean for consumers who were on PPC's invoice? At the same time it meant increasing the profit margin of PPC’s competitors due to the dominant market position. And, of course, this was not the way to increase competition, it has reduced competition. And in such an environment, it is not surprising that there have been general scourge effects in most of 2020 on the part of suppliers, where due to the collapse of fuel prices - due to the pandemic - suppliers, including PPC, have come to sell even four times above the wholesale price. For example, in April 2020, when the ministers still told you 'of what accuracy and crisis, everything is under control', do you know how much PPC bought and how much PPC sold MWh? He purchased 28 euros from the market and sold 110 euros and then PPC's administration and the Ministry of Energy's political leadership celebrated for profits, but on the back of consumers. Similarly, sooner or later the rest of the electricity suppliers had profits. A little lower, but similar profits were earned. What did you do then? You said you were refreshing PPC and giving the blue children the bonuses you put in the management of the company. Up to six times the remuneration of the President and the CEO from the corresponding remuneration on SYRIZA. But where the combination between clandestineness and self-interest is depicted was in the final mess that you created at the opening of the balancing market last November, when the lack of tools to control and regulate the market cost more than EUR 100 million in one month to all consumers. It was when Mr Hatzidakis said that the market and competition would solve the problems, on the other hand, EBIKEN's Energy Consumers - those who consume large volumes of electricity - were submitted and continue to file written complaints about the manipulation of energy prices in the Greek market. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Oligopoly, covetousness, public service outlets and price manipulation. That's the recipe. And all this, of course, while the Energy Regulatory Authority, as I have already mentioned, was disguised by more than twenty executives with transfers in the previous period, looks like the pianist playing piano in the saloon. It's a pandemony around, if you've seen these nice Luke Luke's comics around! - and they play, piano like nothing happens! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Energy Regulatory Authority does not see any stubbornness in PPC's concession procedures, nor in the concession of natural monopolies such as the Infrastructure, the whole Natural Gas Network of the country that you sold by 100% without the participation of the Greek State, or 49% of the TENS of the Technology Distribution network with certain profits and without any risk. That's how I'm being an investor. To be our investors, to have 4%, 5% sure performance - great risk - in an Australian fund. We ask you to bring the contract to the House, but you do not submit it. An Australian fund, which saved Great Britain before, came here and all was well burned. That is why, today, after two years in which this great PPC bazaar is under way, Greece, during an energy crisis, is a champion at the wholesale electricity price. It's not our fault that we're rooted. It's no accident. It is the cost of your choice to make PPC small to speculate some private individuals, some funds - I repeat - not in person, but very sensitive and well-known to you and to drive PPC, the most important business for the Greek economy, for the productive reconstruction of the place, sometime later, possibly, at the control of a private investor through acquisitions and exchange transactions, without opening a nose. So, it's just going to happen, normal. It will be a matter of the market, which operates unavoidably, arbitraryly, without intervention. The market will regulate them. I repeat: what does this cost to the consumer, to the businessman, to industry and to processing? The average price on the wholesale electricity market, on which the so-called ‘adjustment clause’ is based, is that which inflates the electricity tariffs. It was formed in October in our country at 198 euros per MWh since 121 euros in August and on Thursday that passed us, you showed us here and you showed us paintings, that nothing is wrong because we are not higher in accuracy, the wholesale price broke any previous record. We are pan-European first with 276 euros per MWh. Here, your achievements. And that's a Mitsotakis project. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So because you have come here today and you have spoken to us about an economy that is thriving and goes triumphantly, and the accuracy, as you said, sells to the media, I would like to say to you that, no, Mr Mitsotakis, it does not sell accuracy, but it hurts. It hurts in the pocket of every household, those people who are dependent on their wages and cannot make the third week of the month. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So let's see how much your policy costs these people. I have brought you some examples because you like examples. In an oven account in Kallithea, which already came in mid-October, where the adjustment clause, the Mitsotakis-Hatzidakis-Skreka project, that is, to get together - the Mitsotakis project is that - it was higher than the electricity price. The clause was EUR 958 and the current was EUR 919. Final charge in relation to the previous account of EUR 600. Here, you tell the baker in Kallithea that we're going well and that there's no accuracy. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What does that mean to you, the 600 euros to this professional? It means that this professional will lose, especially when the next account comes, which will be even higher, the cost that he may have to spend and to hire a craftsman, a good worker. Let's take another example, a saint baker. While the current of 1400 euros came next month, with almost the same consumption, a 3270 euros electricity account, i.e. 133% over, at an additional cost of 1870 euros, came to him. "We'll close, we can't stand," he said man. What else can he say? He didn't say here that the evidence tells us that in the second quarter we have 7% increase in available income. He didn't go home. You say that. Go tell them to the professionals who take the bills to increase the available income you're coming here and you're not ashamed to lie like that. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We go further on to the other examples that I will present to you. A farmer from Larissa saw in the last bill a charge after a discount of EUR 1,556. Farmer from Crete saw a charge of 1,762 euros. All of what I'm saying to you and I'm tabling it to you is from accounts which we have in our hands and the sums do not bear VAT. Household in Evia, Psachna, had consumption from May 22nd to September 20th, increases in Mitsotakis 200 euros. Restaurant in Thessaloniki for one month, in September, it had 697 euros current and 620 euros readjustment clause. The final charge is EUR 376. Family hotel in Heraklion, Crete had a consumption of 2,400 and a charge after the discounts of 918 euros, that is, the cost of two months of the child or one of the children that can study away. And imagine that these relate to old accounts, they do not correspond to the accounts that will come with high score embedded throughout Europe that we did in October, and especially November in particular. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] What do you have to say to these people? You have to say that the economy is on its way, that we have growth, that we have an increase in the income available, that we do not increase the minimum wage. And you told us with courage that Spain has a socialist government and the left to cooperate and have screwed up. In Spain, as Sanchez stands with Podemos has increased the minimum wage by 30%, Mr Mitsotakis. And you raise 50 minutes a month. Do you know that? From 2019 until today they have made 30% increases to the minimum wage. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You also talked about Brain Drain that we did, as if the country started to exist since July 2015, before there was no country, it was something else. Before those who went bankrupt the country in 2009, those who led us to the Memorandums and the Committee, those who reduced the available income, those who immersed the wage, those who drove away five hundred thousand young people abroad, tell us that there was no country before, then there was a country and denounce those who took the country out of the mud. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It takes a lot of nerve to say this out of here. Four hundred and fifty thousand jobs have been created by us in conditions of hard Memorandum of Monitoring. And today you come to tell us what good things are in the labour market. Good work! Where are these good jobs, except for the blue kids who are at ease, and don't people know how to go and get these good jobs? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You've broken up the labour market with the Hatzidakis law. Nine hundred and thirty-five thousand are unemployed on the basis of OAED data. What do you have to say to them? I say these things not because he will sweat Mr Mitsotakis' ear, but to understand that what is happening today, what the average Greek family pays is the additional cost of Mitsotakis policy. It is detrimental to this combination of manipulation and perseverance in the service of interests. Your propaganda may prosper, but the figures do not correspond to the reality of the average Greek. And as long as the numbers prosper, people are unhappy. You've made life to thousands of Greek citizens worse, in their vast majority. Costs are constantly increasing. Everyone lives in stress and uncertainty. Mr. Mitsotakis, now that I think you feel, as much as your communication "airbags" protects you, that the cycle is closing, when the time comes to judge your history, your political heritage will be exactly what the majority of Greek society feel by taking the electricity account: Despair. This is the feeling that your term leaves to every Greek family. We brought you suggestions. You told us today that they were large and impossible to implement. Why is it impossible to achieve the minimum wage increase? But, were you electorally not that under our pressure we raised 11% the minimum wage and we abolished the subordinate, this racist distinction for young workers, and we increased it by 24%, did you come out and say, "Would we also increase the minimum wage, twice the rate of growth?" Why didn't you? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Aren't you telling us that we now have an increase of 6%, 6.5%? Why don't you make 12% increase in the minimum wage? Did you only announce 2%, or 50 minutes a day, and say "we'll do another one later"? As you referred to Spain again, Spain has brought the excise tax down from September to the European Union's minimum levels, i.e. a 93% reduction in heating oil, in diesel fuel, by 20%, in petrol by 50%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why don't you do it? You only come here to give so-called dividends to the pensioners you deceived three times, to give them 250 euros of "courts"? Well done, we'll vote for it, but we've brought the thirteenth pension. So bring her back. Why do you not proceed with the reduction of excise duty for the duration of the crisis and for the rural world, on the freezing of excise duty on diesel, rather than on the part of the cooperative farmers? Why don't you do it for everyone? Why don't you bravely move on to what we're proposing to you, to delete part of the debt to the public and to the insurers created in the pandemic? Much more will cost us if the debts remain there, because they will not be paid. Why don't you move on to tighten up the controls on hardcore phenomena by the Energy Regulatory Authority, the Competition Committee, finally play their part? Why don't you copy your friend McCron who came out of the French public electricity company and announced a curfew ban in the winter period due to unpaid accounts? None of this will be adopted. So you ask us whether some measures which come late, too late and are inferior to the needs of the Greek society will be voted on. Obviously, whatever philosophical we will support. However, what we cannot continue to support is your mockery, Mr Mitsotakis, because you neither want nor can you put back in order to satisfy the social needs in a time of crisis. Why? Because you are trapped in your commitments and ideas. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I urge you to assume your institutional and political responsibility. Social cohesion, democratic wisdom, political normality require this deadlock to which you have led Greek society to lift it immediately. You created it. As far as we are concerned, we will do everything we can in this direction and with struggles and with proposals and claims. You led the country to a dangerous dead end. The struggle of the Greek people can lift this dead end. In the next tone, I inform you, Mr Mitsotakis, that the time will not be Mitsotakis, but it will be the time of the people. The sooner you realize, the better for the place, for society, for the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u9	Mr Constantine Scandalidis has the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Parliament's Group on his own initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u10	I come today to the Step of the House representing Fofi Gennamas and the Movement of Change. Its absence from this debate throws a heavy shadow not only above our side, but to the whole of the national Parliament. On this occasion I would like to thank the President of Parliament for all the Greek Parliament's parties for their consistent support and sincere support. As for us, the reserve that left us for the unity, perspective and reconstruct of our space coexists with the positive model that leaves behind and its important offer in the difficult times that we have spent. We miss him, and we miss him a lot. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff, and I have thought, regardless of the truth or the non-truth of their arguments, that the numbers are used according to the beam, and that if you take them out of this particular reality to justify the most contradictory things. I think that the issue that we are debating today on the initiative of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is a matter that needs to be dealt with, above all, in social terms and less by quoting hundreds or dozens of numbers. The huge question of accuracy in the midst of the new outbreak of the pandemic crisis and the soaring inflation creates an explosive mixture. It is not only the dozens dead every day, it is not just the dismantling of the health system, it is not just the division of the vaccine that is constantly intensified, it is not just the multilingualism of the epidemiological ministers and the political experts who are responsible to a large extent for its government's unassuming policy of'seeing and doing'. It's that pandemic is stepping up the already huge problem. Precision and inflation. The further reduction of the turnover of government measures, other reasonably and delayed, other incomplete and incomplete in retail trade and focus, as well as the shrinking of economic activity that entails, dramatically exacerbate the problem and recycle price increases. Think of a family belonging to the vulnerable layers of the population facing the outrageous rise in prices, with unbearable indirect taxation, with the establishment of wages, with job insecurity, with the dismantling of the social state. Consider the consequent crisis on the market of the small and medium-sized businessman, whose dramatic decline in turnover and production and operating costs require price increases. Think of the farmer, who sees the oil price launch, the current and the inputs stay only in promises of post-modernized payments of a minimum part of them. Think of the housewife who see the prices hiking, the bills rising uncontrollably, the household’s basket becoming more expensive and careless. Think of the people of EUR 500, those with the lowest pension, the unemployed, the delinquents that you are causing them by speaking of a 2% increase and something more crumbs that you can give them later in time. Prime Minister, I have listened very carefully to your arguments and your own truth about polluting inflation. Unfortunately, we insisted and you stayed on the part of the truth that he agrees with you and suits you. I am willing to recognise the part of your truth, which refers exclusively to imported inflation. That's what it is. It is assumed that the rapid rise in inflation stems from external factors: the rapid 20-month increase in oil and gas prices from the low 20 years that occurred in March 2020, the consequent increases in electricity prices, the congestion on supply chains, the expanding monetary policy of the larger central banks. All this is pushing rapidly and at the same time up the prices of goods and services across Europe and around the world. That's what it is. But there is also the part of the truth, which they have concealed, and it is not in any sense intrinsic. You did not say, for example, that the country was accurate and when inflation was negative. That Greeks have since paid with its average income at 64% of European, 73% higher prices in telecommunications and a significant proportion more for energy, fuel and transport services. You said that the country is third in terms of inflation, but when it started last winter it was negative and now it is approaching the European Union's average. You did not say, for example, that the Greek market with your own policy continues to be found by oligopolistic distortions, which make certain products and services extremely expensive. You did not say, for example, that Greece according to the latest available comparative data from the European Commission for 2019 had the third highest tax rate and the fourth most indirect taxation in the European Union. Because you could say that this is what you have received, I would like to remind you that you have already submitted your third state budget in order and the ratio of indirect taxes to direct taxes is constantly expanding. It started, from the historical low that was found in 2014, a continuous upward trend both from the government of SYRIZA and you, by continuing this trend, reached the take-off. In the state budget that taxes have paid, they will contribute 2.2 billion to tax revenue and the income tax of 1.3 billion. What did you do at the same time? You have found resources since 2019 to make the country third with the lowest tax on dividends, to tax those who get bonuses and the option. Why am I saying that? To gloat? Oh, no. Because these choices are part of the problem of accuracy too. When you reduce the tax rate of dividends of anonymous companies, you motivate their shareholders to make their profits out of the companies and not to invest. And of course why not? To speculate. That, Prime Minister, is not us. These are written by the faculties of classical economic thought you and your ministers invoke to return us to normality of economic orthodox. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's strategy towards the throat of precision best describes the Minister of Finance. In its explanatory statement on the state budget, it states: 'The rise in inflation in Greece is considered to be imported'. Well, that's all right. ‘Although further growth to the end of the year is expected to be expected to be assessed for a gradual normalisation of its trend to begin in the second quarter of 2022’. The Prime Minister said so too. "The transient impact on the purchasing power of households and operational costs of businesses is expected" continues Mr.Starras "to slow down individual consumption expenditure on investments and export volumes to the end of this year". Obviously it is predicted that inflation will rise further and reach 4%. "But to an extent that is mitigated by direct government measures against the energy crisis" the Prime Minister analysed very clearly. I don't think that could be a more revealing description. What does the government tell us? Firstly, inflation is a temporary phenomenon that will once leave us in a position to do so. Is that why you don't do anything to control the markets and the prices? So while you are able, as other countries do, to take action against speculation in the context of fiscal relaxation, do you not even think about it? Secondly, as it is temporary, we are also taking temporary measures such as the 300 KWh subsidy per month for the last quarter of 1921 and we are increasing the heating allowance and a number of other measures announced today by the Prime Minister. Welcome are similar measures and all the other measures that you will mention, which we are obviously voting on today, but which are aspirins for us in serious illnesses. What are these exceptional measures going to save from ECU 2.2 billion? In addition, will the households pay for consumption taxes in 2022 and increase further because of inflation? What are you going to tell the businessman who tripled the price into his current? What's up with PPC's stock? I, Minister, have been amazed by a very friend of mine who came and found me - I will not say another example, only this - a confectionary in Athens and said with despair - I have his name at your disposal - that the EUR 2,000 he paid a few months ago, came last month and was 6,000 euros. We're not talking about some increases. Are we talking about 'legal' speculation, which I do not understand where it comes from? What's he going to do? And I don't understand, too, why each time you testify to the argument that PPC's share was raised? But when the bills are processed in the air, of course, PPC's share will also rise. It is clear, therefore, that something is going on in the Kingdom of Denmark, because subsidies go directly to energy providers, for example, by giving the market a wrong signal as they close the eye to speculation and not to consumers directly, and there is no support for businesses and farmers. But, gentlemen of the government, this is your ideological approach. Inflation is a temporary economic phenomenon, a flu that will pass with aspirins. Your measures are transitional, minimum relief measures and you expect inflation and the accuracy to say goodbye to us on your own. He's not gonna do you a favor. He's not going to fix himself in the long run, but, as Kanes said, in the long run, we're all gonna be dead. This is the most characteristic case of your conservative perception and strategy. Other measures and interventions require the dramatic juncture: more permanent, more structural, more reformative, to refer to your favorite moto. This word is a capital title without substance. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have diagnosed the storm that is coming, on the initiative of Mrs Gennamas, we have tabled very specific proposals, which we hear are being adopted today by others, and we are pleased that the time has come for this process has been too long, and that is to say, not only in terms of inflation, but also in terms of the accuracy of market distortions and indirect taxes. In particular, we have proposed the immediate reduction of VAT on food and excise duty on fuel for at least as long as the crisis lasts, without putting the two months and the quarters in place, and then let's see what we're going to do. We have proposed that for the small and medium-sized enterprises it be regulated the debts that make it abundant, solely because of the crisis, in a hundred and twenty instalments with a brave haircut for the consistent ones. We have proposed the continuous and systematic checks by the state authorities, the competition committee and the Energy Management Authority to deal with unfair practices in the oligopolistic markets so that they do not speculate at the expense of consumers, particularly in the industry, distribution and marketing of basic consumer goods, in particular food and in the energy sector. We have proposed the immediate introduction of the oil card for all farmers and not for very few and post-modernised, as the government is planning. And to come to the minimum wage, I remind you of the irony of luck: 2010 was EUR 751 and 2021 is EUR 650. Was the same then the cost of life as today? Consider whether you raise it at the net prices of what vatero it is as far as the weakest layers of the population are concerned. We have therefore proposed the introduction of a permanent upgraded minimum pension rather than a one-off increase and a significant increase in the minimum wage for the most vulnerable, poor and hungry and then, after an increase, the reintroduction of collective bargaining, so that the social partners themselves can shape its level. These are some of our proposals, which could be the subject of substantial dialogue and form the time and financial framework for its implementation. Finally, Prime Minister, it is really unjustified that the European Union's lack of political will to deal with the problem of accuracy collectively, responsibly and effectively. The deposition to each individual member of responsibility creates conditions of unequal exchange, dependency and different speeds of growth, which broaden the already existential and clear inequalities between states. I recognise your encouragement to deal with this huge issue with the Council and the committee. But it's not good enough. You need to take bilateral and multilateral initiatives to create a common framework and provide corresponding resources for its implementation. Perhaps not only by increasing, but also by redistributing the existing ones. And here's an observation. Because everyone's desire, and especially the government's, is rapid recovery and rapid growth, to say that by means of emblematic measures, growth is not taking place in the country. Development is carried out through structural changes and the way the resources available are allocated. Development occurs if a society feels strong to contribute to productive forces rather than scattering into the four winds. The development takes place if every region of the country has the ability to develop its productive powers. Development is done not running behind events and crisis, but by harnessing events and the crisis. One final word, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to be a veteran of evil or that's a part of it. However, I am thinking, Minister, of the truth as crises are accumulating on one side and, above all, of the way your government is dealing with atoms, conservatives, class and fragments, seems to me to be very sloppy about the future of the country. It has never caused a place, with a people insecure, fearless, uncertain in such a depressing environment, which should seek out. Another more radical, more bold and more importantly fair way that can share fair resources and opportunities is possible. But this requires a profoundly progressive consciousness and a bold reformist, which has nothing to do with its own reforms, which makes structural changes, secures them in the crisis and reverses the balance of revenue and expenditure and distribution, so that society can also acquire a balance of development, but also get out of the problems of every citizen, every household, every human being. We believe that such a path is possible. We are here to serve him, as we consistently do on the half-century journey to this party. We are here loyal and fighters of the values and deep roots that have been plunged so many times and will, as it turns out, be fruitful in recent times, again, over the next few months and over the next few years. A little patience and everything will change for the best for our country and our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr Scandalides, and of course because you have kept your time accurate. Then I call on the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, for his speech of twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate and the call for confrontation between Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras go beyond any limit. All those involved in the slaughter of people's incomes, all those responsible for the burdens, which they have loaded and are still loading on the workers' backs now, and who are re-presenting the saviors. It is, at least, challenging to hear that the New Democracy and SYRIZA, who are co-responsible for the timeless crime against the people, should be treated today. Of course you, too, are not relieved, Mr PASOK and the Change Movement, by your great responsibilities. You are all accomplices to a large reduction in wages and then to their freezing for a decade and to undermining collective agreements. You are accomplices to tax - bleeding people and ejecting unfair indirect taxes. You are complicit in privatising the promotion of the European Union's guidelines, for the liberalisation of the energy market and for the green transition that, as we will then explain, pour oil into the fire of appreciations, accuracy and lead much of the Greek people to energy poverty with expensive electricity and gas. You are accomplices to the terrible situation in which hundreds of thousands of unemployed are found, especially young people and older people, who are approaching retirement. You are accomplices to the current anticipation of the public health system, the situation in schools and universities that we have spoken about several times in detail from this Step. However, the biggest challenge of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA is that they have the very cause, the real source of these problems, as a solution to the people's problems. The fraudulent medicine you are both proposing is the return to capitalist development when we are in the crisis phase and then during the weak recovery phase of the economy again, the further impulse to capitalist development. This is a boost, which is always guaranteed by multi-formal government support and tax relief to the large capital. As always, so now, promise that the benefits will be diffused and growth will come for everyone. And what does life prove again and again? It demonstrates that the gifts of this growth for workers are ultimately requirements for new sacrifices since only the riding of the workers with the opening of the laps between productivity growth and wages can increase the profitability of capital. Cherry in the cake over the last few months is the accuracy that's come to tear down what's left standing. The housekeeper's basket is made every day and more expensive. The cost of energy is plunging almost the majority of the people into energy poverty. Housing costs are ejected and literally fleeing families from their homes, and even simple daily habits become expensive and workers can no longer cover them. However, the accuracy and ejection of the electricity price is not a natural phenomenon. Let's see how it's done: First of all it relates to the current fiscal policy that the big capital needs in Greece and the rest of Europe to recover and return to profitability. We are talking about the so-called 'extensive policy', which is followed both in the European Union and in the rest of the world today, with the drastic increase in the mass of money that has almost doubled, which is why the rise in inflation is not a Greek peculiarity. The debate on the negative effects of cheap lending, low interest rates, loose monetary policy on inflation has already begun in the central banks of the United States and the European Union. The bitter truth is that the working class, the people of the country after paying for the 2008-2015 crisis with immediate, drastic cuts in wages, pensions and tax evacuation now pays with the workers, the rest of the world indirectly with a rapid decline in income through inflation. Really, Mr. Tsipras, isn't it at least funny you who continue to appear as the original expressionors of the expansionist budgetary policy to come and shed tears above accuracy and inflation? Life proves that every drug for one of the symptoms of capitalist development is poisoned for the rest. You don't see a magic recipe. Capitalist growth itself, the exit of the capitalist economy from the crisis, the increase in consumption lead to price increases. Even greater are the responsibilities of all urban parties for the explosion of energy poverty, the evacuation of electricity and natural gas prices. They are co-responsible because they all support and promote the policy of green transition, the liberalisation of the European Union's energy market. What are the consequences already of implementing this policy in Greece? Domestic lignite and environmentally friendly domestic hydroelectric production no longer exceed 13% of the total mixture. 42.7% belongs to the extremely expensive imported gas and 16% is now derived from imports from the Balkans, since there the production of solid fuel does not seem to be damaging to the environment. So instead of saving energy, the expensive gas is wasted on electricity generation. The results of the conflicts between the United States, the European Union, Russia, which relate to the degree of dependence of Europe on Russian gas and are today affecting the price of natural gas. The people also pay for the energy stock exchange and the trade in pollutant emission rights imposed by the European Union. So artificially appears on paper as cheaper to produce wind farms than to produce from the domestic lignite. Greece also has the record of increasing wholesale electricity prices in the European Union this year. The people also pay the extra rags to make the investments of the large wind parks profitable, pay the renewable energy charges, the notorious special RES bills supported jointly by New Democracy and SYRIZA in addition to minor differences. The people will also pay charges in industrial power. At the same time as the unemployment wave brought about by liberation in western Macedonia is now opening up to BSE and the debate on the transfer of domestic production units outside the European Union to countries with more relaxed rules on carbon dioxide emissions. We were also saying from this step, just two years ago, that the policy of extroversion, which you appear to be a miraculous solution - both you of the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - exposes the country to fluctuations in the international economy, which will be even multiplied. We were confirmed by the last crisis, with the country's economy recording one of the deepest crises between the countries of the European Union. We are now confirmed. The policy of extroversion and the increase in exports also fuels the accuracy of certain categories of goods. The monoculture of tourism in the cities, the appearance of hundreds of hotels and the summer leases, thousands of tourists finally set Europe prices in a country where hundreds of thousands of workers remain unemployed and the average wage is almost 50% of the equivalent of northern Europe. Can anyone understand the question of accuracy if they do not see the continuing privatizations in health, education, transport, social security, leading to costs in which they did not exist before? So why? And that's a natural phenomenon? The long-term policy of the past decades on energy, water, transport, health and education has greatly increased the cost of labour, the people's family. It is now easy to understand that the profitability of capital requires an escalation of the attack on workers, that the kind of urban management you do does not change the class substance of this society. It does not change the fact that workers must lose, in order for the big, the few, the big capital. That is why the time has come in this country, the workers, the working class, the people to make their own fund, that is to say to draw their conclusions. The debts of the people's households, small businesses to banks, tax and insurance funds are already more than EUR 10 billion. The example of the explosive situation that has been created in the small business of the focus, with the cost of rent, the great energy cost, the requirements of the repayable advance, and so many others are characteristic. The accuracy is not due to mismanagement of the current or previous government, which, of course, also exist and exist. However, no civil government wants nor can it address the question of the impoverishment of the working class, since it is ultimately an inalienable term of the very capitalist production of the system, the interests of which have been decided to serve. That is why the government's measures are, in fact, an aspirin in severe illness, which will in any event be called upon again to pay the workers from the other pocket. These are mere measures to redistribute poverty between the same working people. Reduced electricity tariffs are charged to the budget and will be paid by the employees by the taxes they pay, while the profits of electricity companies remain secured. Accordingly, the government's budget allowance, designed by the government, will be limited to extreme poverty by operating only firearms. It is a great challenge to the workers who are following you in return for the accuracy and evacuation of the costs of their survival to increase the minimum wage by 2%. Even at this point, 2% are also being raised as a double increase! But, well, aren't you embarrassed? We are talking about the lowest wage fixed by signing a national general collective labour agreement between trade unions and employers, which were abolished in 2012, cutting an already signed contract, by a cabinet decision, 25% for all and 32% for young people up to twenty-five years. We are talking about the same lower wage you have voted for, the well-known Brutsi law, which is now laid down by a ministerial decision. SYRIZA, who would have abolished this law, and with Mrs Ahtsoglu she applied it, without even bringing the wage back to the level that was cut. We are talking about decisive state intervention, which has worked as an accelerator to reduce the average wage of all workers by over 30% and reduce the income of workers but also the unemployed, since the unemployment benefit received by one out of ten unemployed, with official figures, has been reduced equally. Wages well-dressed and cut off for a decade. We're talking about these wages. While much of the workers are not even paid with them, but with even less due to giganticism and flexible forms, i.e. the 'ladder' forms of work. Eight hundred ten thousand employees, based on the latest data from EKKA, are paid at EUR 383,23 per month mixed. These workers accounted for 37.42% of all insured persons and, in fact, in the pandemic, this large proportion of workers increased by 14%. This work jungle is your creation, gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of SYRIZA. What compensatory measures are you actually talking about and mocking people? On this legislative framework, which plunged the average wage at today's levels and evicted flexibility, the Hatzidakis Act also added, which every of its provisions is also a robbery of income and a trap of death for workplaces. Do you understand what is happening right now in workplaces? That there isn't a week when the work report doesn't actually record crimes in workplaces with dead, crippled? Where is the annual report of the Labour Inspectorate, which, in fact, Mr Hatzidakis's law, has made it a very independent authority? The last time the Ministry published the annual report of the Labour Inspectors' Body was in 2017, again following persistent questions from the JRC within the House. The same practice as SYRIZA used to follow you. What right don't you give the evidence to the public? Is this or is it not a cover-up of criminal responsibilities of the employer, but also a message 'Do what you want, does not anyone control you'?' This is the cause of the accidents at the distributors, the dead worker at 'COSCO', the victims of the power train, the dead builder in the Oinofytas. And that's all for the last few days. Even for overworking, which was paid for by 20% more, if it was paid, you are now giving in the application of the Hatzidakis law of Article 79 the freedom to Employees not to indicate the hours of overworking and not to pay them. One - one of the false words and the lousy propaganda mechanism, set up to present the abolition of eight-hour and ten-hour work as modernisation, are revealed. Places the various stupid things you say that workers themselves want to work longer to get permission to pick up the olives and not say anything more. I would not be able to refer to the situation of hundreds of thousands of pensioners in seeing the imprisonment in order to get their pensions, delays, deferrals and continuing reductions. Here the e-Government has inaugurated him twice that he would have been able to get out by pressing a pension button and EFKA is still extradited, i.e. paying pensioners their money. There are hundreds of sixty-one thousand major pensions, a hundred twenty-five thousand subsidiary and eighteen thousand single. Even judicially won retrospectives, you have reached the point where you have taxed them to get a large part back by increasing the tax scale. SYRIZA, on the other hand, attempts once again to deceive by proposing a slightly greater increase in the minimum wage than the one announced by the Mitsotakis Government in 2022. Of course, there is an urgent and immediate need to increase the minimum wage bravely. However, SYRIZA forgets to answer some simple questions at the same time: What about average wages in each industry? What is going to happen with the reduction of the non-wage costs it has proposed to BSE as a compensation for the increase in the minimum wage, namely the reduction in employers' insurance contributions and other benefits, where, on the one hand, they will also come out. Will indirect taxes be drastically and directly reduced? Will VAT be abolished in the broadly popular consumption? Will anti-government laws and memorial commitments that undermine collective bargaining and corresponding negotiations be abolished? Will elastic employment relationships be abolished? What happens when the Commission demands from the next government that the Memorandum of Understanding, which Mr Tsipras himself has signed? What happens when strict recommendations for limiting state social policy expenditure are introduced? In response to all this, we may hear one of the soonest jokes that SYRIZA along with the Podemos, as has been said here, and the Portuguese Socialists on the other hand, will transform the European Union philosophically. It can even help Mera25 to this very realistic objective, indeed. In any case, we easily understand that an increase in the minimum wage will be depleted very easily if we respond negatively to these questions. But the problem is deeper. A magic solution that ensures substantial increases in people's income, strengthening average wages, and at the same time expanding capitalist growth and strengthening capital profits, is just magic, metaphysical, i.e. there is no solution. The accumulation of capital, capitalist growth, is linked to the impoverishment of workers. The reason why both you, Mr Mitsotakis, and you, Mr Tsipras, cannot draw up a satisfactory proposal - a solution to the question of accuracy and the labour market is, in the end, very simple. You're on the side of those who are responsible for the dishonesty, the accuracy. You are committed to armoring the profits of the few. In other words, you agree on the essential point. That is why you were voting together for the memos in the previous period. Today you agree together on the need for expansional management that eats people's incomes with inflation, with the appreciations. That is why, together with the 'hand washing the other', you are hitting the labour movement's ability to fight against these anti-grassroots measures that the profitability of capital needs. You're trying to put up new obstacles all the time. Together you have promoted the undermining of the unions' ability to organise strikes. Together you abolished the collective negotiations and the Hatzidakis law is the gravel you are trying to put into them. That is why the measures you are proposing are measures to redistribute poverty among the poor. The capitalism that you both serve, with the help of the other parties in this House, has no real solution to the people anymore. Urban management, whether restrictive or expansive, only loads on workers and at the same time fails to deal with the problem of the crisis itself, which is constantly coming back. The green transition, in which you drink water, leads from nature to a restriction on how workers, people's layers live, leads to energy poverty, to fewer movements. Once again, however, it cannot solve the unsurpassed contradictions of the system. The reality itself is shouting: the system rots, no longer takes patches, no longer corrected. Your development produces poverty, unemployment, even wars. The automation of production produces unemployment and an increase in working time. The contradictions in this system that you are supporting come from capitalist property, namely capitalist profit and the state that keeps it. And that's what should finally leave the scene of history. Social property, which we are proposing, of concentrated means of production, of central scientific design, of production control can deal with problems. Energy poverty is not the result of a lack of energy resources. Precision and tolerance are not due to the fact that we cannot produce sufficient food in our country. The inability of the middle family to ensure satisfactory holidays, rest, free time, culture, sport is not due to the fact that they are not concerned, that it is fatal not to enjoy them. Wherever you look, the guilty man shouts. The JRC substantiates its programme, that the people can live much better on the basis of the possibilities that exist today, illuminates why, in the end, this central design of social production with the people, in fact, in power - the system of socialism that we propose - will ensure cheap energy for all and adequate, cheap and quality foods and movements that meet the needs and education and health requirements, satisfactory working relations and a drastic reduction in working time for all, combined satisfaction of all people's needs. Today, to open up this hopeful road, the KIC forces are coming in front of the modern workers' struggles. There is no room for delusion anymore. Workers should not once again put their hopes in the fraudulent declarations, either of the New Democracy, of the SYRIZA or of other parties. Long-term historical experience has shown that only the people can save the people if they believe in their power and move decisively along the path of radical change. Through these daily struggles we can form such a movement of workers rooted everywhere, with pioneering outbreaks of resistance in each workplace, in each industry, in each area and with specific issues that we need to put on the table for a solution, such as: Defending decent labour income. The reduction in working time. Conservation of substantial increases. The abolition of flexible forms of employment. Ensuring permanent work against tax payouts and the accuracy of people's strata. Protection of life, people's health for exclusively public, free and high-level health services, compulsory social security for all by reducing and abolishing workers' contributions to pay the capital, provided only for public and free of charge for all. The defence of working people's rights against state repression, bans, terrorism, abolition of all laws restricting trade union activity. The decommissioning of the country from dangerous plans, the closure of military bases, the release from NATO agencies, the European Union, which, in addition, remove valuable resources from our people, which could increase income and social benefits. The right to public free education at all levels, the development of free time, the access of our people to culture and sport with all the necessary infrastructure. The direct support of self-employed, small businessmen with a tax-free ceiling of EUR 12 000 for small people and the deletion of some of the debts into banks and public authorities. To guarantee lower guaranteed prices in agricultural products and an integrated anti-military, anti-nuclear, anti-Semitism project. Ensuring modern, popular residence. And since I'm talking about flooding, the other day I was in Corfu, the River. Do you know the River, Mr. Dendia, fellow Members of the other parties from Corfu? I refer to the three Members of Corfu. Of course you know him, it's Corfu suburb. Don't you know that nothing has been done to restore the bridge, open the transport after the recent catastrophic flooding? Don't you know there's no bus to move people's elementally? This is what a Corfiot well-known, resident of the River there - known to Mr. Teddy in particular said that it was - and asked me to take you to the House at the first opportunity - you are listening to them, Mr. Mitsotakis, and after I have found the opportunity today, I am doing - that these issues must be resolved, that we should at last be given a solution to the fundamental issues of the affected. We do not have to wait for the JRC or the socialism we say, you can solve it here and now with the pressure and support of all of us. So, to conclude, the JRC has tabled concrete proposals within the House for the relief of workers, the people's forces, but proposals which have met with the decisive refusal of other parties. Our people believe that at some point - very soon - they can draw conclusions. There is no - we say - time to wait. The attack will not stop unless the workers themselves, the people themselves, united together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u13	And we thank Mr. Koutsuba. It is now Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, who is responsible for his protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Kutsuba, you're not obliged to know our schedule, but you're obliged to listen to us in here at least. For green horses the Greek Solution does not say. It is against green energy, as at least it goes on to be imposed and, at least, it is said. So don't mess with us with the rest of us. At least here's an exception!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u15	I didn't say by name!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u16	You said 'all parties', Mr Kutsuba! All parties are also, unfortunately or happily, for us, sadly for others. So let's go to the rest. The reality is that by listening to all the parties' presidents, I would say something very common: from theory we are doing well. But no one at all! I have not heard any proposals or arguments, I have not heard anything conspicuous, something specific, something designed at the level of a proposal to the government. Beyond the opposition, we must make proposals! So theory, not substance! I would like to begin first with the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, I think that was a verbal failure, you described an objective reality. You know, in Greek there is no objective reality, reality is reality. The truth is objective or subjective. So, then, reality is reflected in all that is happening in our society. And by confusing, then, many times the government's concepts, it attempts to transcend words, but also - I would say it directly - anti-institutional acts. So I speeded up, from the Prime Minister's speech, some gaps, some lame arguments, which really degrade the government record and one can easily draw conclusions that all of this is well said in here, but in essence it is not really. The Prime Minister said we have a global crisis, true. He also said that the increase in energy is global. There are many issues to be investigated here. First, Prime Minister, you were here a year ago when I told you to buy oil. If you did that, we would have won billions of euros. We've been here and I've told you since. Also in the gas and energy problem, Prime Minister, you are unfortunately making a mistake by all the Prime Ministers. The future of the country, Prime Minister, lies in the will of the great nations of Europe. Wait, Prime Minister, from Europe, a common strategy on energy to solve the problem of reduced energy input into Europe. It's a crime, it's a mistake because Germany is preventing developments and buying gas with pre-registration for the next few years. We did not. So if we were to buy, Prime Minister, oil at $22 a barrel since I told you - today is about 75 to 80-per means 200% to 300% profit. Here we are, then, proposing a party that is serious to the Greek Parliament for the future. That's why you have to listen to us. Not because we're oppositioning the opposition. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, Prime Minister, I will tell you something you have said, because the reduction in the production of natural gas in Europe is a function of specific things, for example, for Norway, which has reduced its own supply. So the politician who wants to be useful in a country must predict evolution and not run behind it, Prime Minister. You, Prime Minister, what did you and Mr. Dendias personally do? You have buried every hope of extracting gas in the country. Take it back now! Start now extracting natural gas in Greece to be self-sufficient energy, do it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You buried it through demonstrations in the UN. It's never happened before, never. We had Mr Papandreou in the past saying "oils don't exist" and he grabbed his nose, lying. Now you're telling us 'forget gas'. What didn't the Prime Minister tell us? He talked about inflation. What didn't he tell us? Today on the market, friends and friends, there is a lot of money, but there are few products, that's not what many people understand. Where's the money? The banks. They were given there with the money of the Greek people constantly and do not give it to businesses or the citizens. So there's money in banks. The money therefore has these banks and Europe as a whole. Banks have money, citizens don't have money. The Prime Minister has also made this mistake: he has spoken of inflation as the smallest in Europe. That's half the truth, Prime Minister. Because Greece started deflation last year at minus 2%, Prime Minister, if I accept your obsessive attitude to ELSTAT. Why you are using ELSTAT or EUROSTAT depending on how it suits you. It is therefore up to 2%, in your view, why you are using ELSTAT. Let's call it 2%. But minus 2% and plus 2% does 4.8%? So that's not the case. EUROSTAT says 3.4%. You know, the arithmetic one time, Prime Minister, and I say it very sympatheticly to Mr. Stakoura, if he shows you in part, he makes a fictional number. Stop the creative accounting. Stop half the truths. We'll all find them in front of us together, not just you, all of us. You said, Prime Minister, "he's armored the income" and I'm looking to find out how. With loan, Prime Minister? With loan, Prime Minister, you are not Prime Minister, you are a man who borrows and gives. With benefits, Prime Minister? Wrong. I would applaud any government and you personally, if you created a production machine, if the country produced wealth. With borrowings, do we give money? Why don't you tell the Greek people that what you're giving them now, and you're doing well with you, I'm going to pay for it at some point with interest, we're going to get them from their children, their grandchildren back? Why don't you say that? You also gave, you said, money to subsidise PPC. Everything with loan? I want a request to the Greek Prime Minister, because I'm also a businessman, Prime Minister, I don't know how many people are in here. I want the Greek Prime Minister to commit that we will not have a lockdown again on Christmas. Because I will now have to buy products in my companies and if you go to Lockdown, Prime Minister, in my business, I'll have the goods left on the shelf. This is the agony of anyone with a focus, a small shop, a big shop. Make a commitment from now that the government will not take the Greek economy back to lockdown because I hear whispers strange. We expect what Germany will do to follow Austria's logic. The economy needs a lot of attention to manage it on the basis of orders or imitation of imitation of other countries. Tell us, Prime Minister, what is the concept of PPC? Your perception. Because PPC owns 34% of the Hypertension and 17% of the TAPID, it does not belong to Greece. It's not a Greek organization. That's the truth. That's the reality. I do not care about PPC, why do I hear ministers and Mr Stakoura telling me many times - of course, the TAPE where it belongs? At the Supreme Court again, the same thing is "Yannis is buying, Yannis drink", but we are actually going - the stock exchange and the value of PPC is up. So if PPC's value rises, will the Greek citizen win? Will he have a reduced invoice? This is what I want, Prime Minister, a reduced tariff for PPC. That's what I want. Can he do it government? I'll be with her. But you're forgetting something. That this PPC, like you destroyed it, and SYRIZA and you and KINAL, are working with power inputs to provide power. Imports! In fact, we are, Prime Minister, energy-dependent, not friends, Mr Mitsotakis, but Turkey, Bulgaria, Skopje, Albania. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's a crime! Energy dependency on non-friendly countries, I won't say hostile, I'll say non-friendly countries. You said, Prime Minister, to raise the minimum wage. Prime Minister, I'll tell you something very simple. In words I can say that I'm making a minimum wage increase, 2% is 12 euros. You must not go for the 12 euros, you will say more. Yes, but there's one issue, Prime Minister, when you raise 2% in wages you, but products are up 25%, how much difference does it make us? The other income has been lost 23%, at least 24%, you give him 2%. He's lost again. And because, Prime Minister, you told me - and you told me here, in the Greek Parliament, many times I say that advisers are doing the greatest damage - that Greece has no gas storage capacity. Do you know that, Prime Minister? Didn't you say here? 'We have no opportunity, Mr Mitsotakis...' - you said - '...to save'. Please, I beg you, I tell you to go to the Plan Manatis - Velopoulos since 2010 here in the House. It is pre-authorised, funded by the European Union - it is the gentleman from Kavala, if I am not mistaken - for the oil saver in Thassos. It's a ready project, ready plan. Mr. Stavoura, Mr. Mitsotakis, look into it. Funded by the European Union from 2011 to 2012, we are still waiting for when Greece will have a warehouse to put gas. If you have no evidence, let me give it to you in your office, Prime Minister, to run to make the gas warehouse have it in Thassos, because it's ready, we're doing nothing. Money is there. Am I wrong, Mr. Comrade? Since 2011 there has been the plan. Ask Mr. Maniatis, Professor, PASOK was the man, together we did it in here, for oil and gas. We did a job. Because this is the different morale of a political man, working with any party for the good of the country, to support any choice for the good of Greece. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Prime Minister, you have said that you have said rises in bank statements and that is what many of your ministers call it. Tell me, Prime Minister, when you have an economy locked in for nine months, won't you have an increase in deposits? Because the salaries of civil servants went to the banks. They weren't moving from there. And the benefits, even, went there. They weren't moving on the market, so you're gonna have an increase in deposits. Where would they spend them in the buddies? Where would they go? What are you talking about? So, then, 1,000 euros were taken, 1,000 euros were left, he paid his expenses, his rent and the rest, but there was more money left. So we've got an increase in deposits. With the programme 'ASE WORK', Prime Minister, have you subsidised unemployment and said that you have reduced it? We will not be subsidising unemployment, we will only be subsidising work. That's our different philosophy. Only work, not unemployment. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You've made the Greek soft all of you with the benefits. You'll be subsidising business to hire people. What you're doing is ideological errors and we'll keep telling you. So you shared money to retired people. Prime Minister, you said this here, I'm glad you did. Of course, our fathers and grandparents are still waiting for pensions. Hundreds of thousands of people, and subsidiary, etc. But it's a loan again. I don't know, maybe Mr. Staruras found money trees. You found money trees, Mr. Stakoura, and you're sharing money from here and there. With loan? I'll repeat that you're making mistakes. You'll find all this in front of you. Lending is a bad thing for a bankrupt country, for a bankrupt country. You're giving money, Prime Minister, to sanitarians. Today you announced it from here. I'm sorry, I'll tell you in a cynical way. I don't like that, though, I'll say it. I think this is extortion. And I'll tell you why. Because there are health doctors and doctors who don't have to eat now that we're talking about why you sent them home. You suspended them because they weren't vaccinated. These people who don't have to feed their children what they're going to say now? Did you send the cheese to get into the lighthouse? Prime Minister, you're wrong. I'll tell you, just like you said. You are negative to reason and reality. That's the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And if you ask if we agree with what you give, I answer that we agree. With philosophy, we disagree with the loan. I will give you an example: Do you want to find 400 million to 600 million? Because the Minister had given me an answer that the independent authorities, Prime Minister, cost the country some 400 million to 600 million. Freeze them - two thousand three hundred people take about 400 million euros - and share this money with the Greek people. Freeze their wages for two months. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We don't need them. They're part of your staff. Put them in the independent authorities, so that your own children can be at ease. That has been true for many years with all the parties. Unfortunately - and I will say it to the Greeks to understand it - it is not the financial solution. Comrades and contributors, give all of you the struggle of everyday life. New Democracy gives you loan, pays you money that you'll pay back. You'll pay for it, you Greeks and your children. Unfortunately, the New Democracy and the Government are not the solution to the problem, but it is the problem. That's the reality, and that's what bothers me. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What particularly satisfys us in the Greek Solution is that we are completely different. We have a different philosophy, Prime Minister. Today, I watched grieffully calling for applause from applause. I didn't hear any suggestions. The worst government in Greece to have if we do not propose anything, we will never be useful to the place. This is what the Greek Solution wants to do, to be useful to the place and not to the party and the Chief. This is our difference, and on this line we will continue to go. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So we do not want applauding MPs. We want an argument contest and no applause contest. That's our difference. And we want the representatives of the Greek Parliament to be unsatisfactory to their Chief, but to be pleasurable to their people. That's the difference. President-in-Office, I shall now refer to SYRIZA, who is absent. It'll be at the cafeteria. You are one, my fellow Member, at the moment in the Chamber and your colleague, a total of two. Anyway, it doesn't matter. I'll say something about SYRIZA. He denounced the government and the Prime Minister for PPC. I didn't really understand it, and I'm starting to wonder about SYRIZA. He must have a politician Alzheimer's. SYRIZA has something and he forgets. Because it is the same technique for green growth, for wind turbines, for photovoltaics. They say the same thing. One question: did Mr Tsipras not go to Kozani and lie - like Mr Georgiadis, if I am not mistaken, and the Prime Minister - to the lignite workers that they will stay there in jobs? You don't do politics with lies. You're lying to me, you're making fun of the people, and you're driving to the cliff and you and your homeland. So I'm saying, "We don't know who did it." SYRIZA. The homeland lost 600 million with SYRIZA NOME, selling cheaper electricity than it produces in private. Today, they forgot. They have their Alzheimer's, they have a dementia policy. They forget what they did a few years ago. Well, we will be here to remind them, as we will all remember your mistakes. Because that means opposition. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We, Prime Minister, have tabled our proposal on energy in writing and at the last moment. The biggest problem in the country, which is energy, is a matter of national and major importance and you need to resolve it by extracting gas and reopening lignite. Leave your ideological fairy tale and your ideological obsession. Greece cannot be a hostage of any hostage. Understood. If anything happens, we'll have a problem. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because we're actually talking, what's because of the accuracy? It's a rhetoric question. Honestly, I was not answered by any political leader other than the Prime Minister, who referred to the accuracy of the energy crisis. So let's look at the cause and not the result, because I'm tired of hearing about the results and criticising each other. First, Prime Minister, the overtaxation of all natural persons and not only in Greece is causing problems in the market. It raises the cost of production of the product when you exaggerate an undertaking and is forced to raise the price to the product, thereby lowering competitiveness. It's just things in the economy and the Prime Minister from what I know financially must have studied, so he knows. I don't understand why he's not applying them. Prime Minister, you're allegedly making a slight tax, aren't you that you're not abolishing the trade end? It's the most unfair trade charge for companies. I tell you as an entrepreneur too. You're lowering taxes - and good for you - 24% and 22%. Normally it had to be at 15% of business tax, to give competitiveness and movement to the market. But you are not abolishing the trade fee. Prime Minister, Greece is in second place among the thirty-six OECD countries on the issue of family taxation. We are, I repeat, in second place between the thirty-six OECD countries with the highest child-working tax and lower pay. Today I learned something from a multitude, a tritex. I have this in front of me, Mr Stavoura and Mr Prime Minister, please look at this very much because the demographic problem is a problem. Third civil servant with an income of 1,500 euros a month found about 40% reduction in his three-tier allowance without the couple having any assets. In a third country with no assets, with a salary of EUR 1,500, the third-party allowance was reduced. The unemployed spouse who received the rent allowance, due to a common tax declaration, was abolished the right to receive the rent allowance. Is that how we solve the national theme of demographics? Instead of being the multitudes from two years or more, you're punishing the third. Is that how we're going to motivate? The Prime Minister left, he probably has a job, but he has a solution for others. He'll bring us bobblers. That's not a solution. I want George, Nikos, Stavros, to create Greek birds, to build Greece with Greeks. I don't want Hassan and Ibraim, son, to get into trouble. Let people come, tolerant society, but it will be Christian and Greek. It's over and out. Another tolerance and another change of population! One more, the other one. Thirdly, united Europe. Do you believe in a united Europe, Mr Stakoura? Do you really think so? You think it's because you're looking at me weird. Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany, Ireland, all have offshore companies. In Luxembourg they are legal. Greek company, dairy industry, went to Luxembourg. This is a united Europe. This is a united bazaar that everyone sells what they want, as much as they like, without proof. Are we kidding? "They reduced taxes to attract, says, multinationals," that is the German saying. In Germany, however, they do not control 'outside'. If tomorrow, Mr. Stakoura, we're going with 20 million euros, we're going to a bank and we're leaving them, they won't ask you where you found them. They take them and they testify. You know that? I know it, I know it because Germany knows it well. And Mr. Villard knows all about finances. Ask him to tell you. There's no control. Here goes Greek with 5 grand and the bank directly goes to grab him from where he found them and blushed the table. How will the investments come like this? I told you: Let the black money be invested. Put to the Greek terms. Put 5% tax to come the money here to invest by the Greeks instead of having it under the folds, drawers or wherever they have it. It's just stuff. Europe is full of offshore and Greece is after taxpayers. The tax collectors, Mr. Stakoura, have gone out and leave nothing standing. Trust me! They're out with the curbs. Like head hunters at Far West. They go in and they think they're gods. Fourthly, imports that are our biggest problem. The government assures that there is sufficient. Isn't that right, Mr. Stakoura? "There's adequacy of goods," I hear the ministers call it. But it's all imported. If the imports stop, what happens? Are we going to eat each other? Since we don't produce anything. And how are they imported, Mr. Stakoura? With containers. Bravo! Do you know how much transport costs from a 40-foot container, Mr. Stacura? No one knows in here, so I say you don't know from an economy. Well, little people know. For the use of two months to be loaded by Asia and come to Greece, does anyone here know how much it costs?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u17	Fifteen thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u18	Thirteen thousand are. Listen to me. We brought in yesterday. Please. Thirteen thousand in Europe we paid, but listen to what the difference is, Mr Famele. Two and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u19	Of a thousand eight hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u20	Again. Well, that's what I call it. You may have found a better chance, no Chinese better. What can I do to you? It's my fault? That's how much business is loaded. They're telling me. This means cost accuracy, which means that it will be passed on in the product that we are going to get today is more expensive. If we do not stop importing and do not produce ourselves, we will be hostage to a food crisis that comes, in the hunger that comes. We have the fourth highest fuel tax. What's simpler? A truck to load from the Tower and bring the strawberry - let's say - from the Tower to Athens will pay tolls, pay expensive fuel. Where's the product going? The product's going to be accurate. That's the accuracy. We know, therefore, that every reduction in the price is increasing GDP by EUR 2 billion. You know that? Each price reduction in transport increases GDP by EUR 2 billion. If Mr. Staruras doesn't know, our economists can give him the evidence to see the man. Instead of reducing taxation, then, we expect support from the European Union, when we know that all this is done to put us deeper into debt and to endure everything that they can get. Exact transport, 67% of all taxes on oil and fuels. My world originality, Mr Stakoura: Have you seen anywhere you - now hear - VAT on excise duty? Tell me, Mr. Stakoura, a country in Sirius, Andromeda, Aphrodite, Mars, who in the special tax would put VAT on top. It's a tax. Taxation? Where have you seen this? It can't be done. It's crazy stuff going on. So all this with transport is hitting competitiveness. Hydrocarbon import costs. For the last decade, do you know how much it is? EUR 140 billion. And the Prime Minister of the country says 'I do not want to extract natural gas', 'I do not want to extract hydrocarbons', 'I do not want lignites'. Well, make nuclear energy that is at least ecological. Bulgaria has done so, Turkey, everyone has lignites around - we are only economists in here. It's an energetic state, Greece, an illegitimate state, and you tell me about an ecology. What are we going to eat? Ecology? Those are the crimes we're doing here. Another thing we want there to be, another one. And I want there to be peace, not to buy weapons and give the retired and the employee money. I understand that. And I want us all to be economists, put the daisy wrench here, go in the spring, all of us in the woods walk, walk. That's good stuff, but that's not the way life is. We don't live in angel societies. We live in societies here. So we must be prepared and prepared. We import EUR 15 billion of hydrocarbons, a Greece that has billions of natural gas, trillions of euros of hydrocarbons, lignite. We have a Prime Minister who doesn't want to, he says. All right, the Prime Minister doesn't want. What right does the Prime Minister have before he informs the Greek people that he does not want, decides he does not want? Isn't that theft of the Greek people's vote? Is it not said - directly I shall say - 'disarming' even of democracy and elections themselves? He didn't tell us that in election. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now, listen to our big problem. Commercial balance. Let them go. Business loan rates. Unbelievable. Highly destructive for young and small and medium-sized enterprises. How will they be competitive and sustainable? Even the wages will fall, it won't, it won't. If they don't have cash in cash, if they don't have money from low-priced banks, the company won't go forward, understand it. Route Berlin - Tarvazio - for those who know a few Italians - nine hundred and thirty-seven kilometers. Tolls of 12 euros only in a tunnel in the Austrian Alps. Route Tarvazio - Ancona, five hundred seventy miles, 44 tolls. Route of Kalamata - Larissa - we're talking about Honolulu, about Hawaii - tolls of 105 euros. How are you going to get a business to carry her products? How's it going to come out? We have forty-five frontal tolls in the country. In all and with the sides, they make us 128 euros. How can I transfer my merchandise to Kalamata or from Kalamata to Athens? How can Thessalonikios take it to Athens or Athenianius to Thessaloniki? It is a lot of money, which is moved to the market that many do not know in here, the market that some do not know how much money must pay to survive the month, the market where the Greek counts half to half of the euro to go to buy milk and bread. We don't know that yet, we're too far from here. We do not understand society, the aid that is very silenced, but it sounds slowly. Modification to the product. Greece, according to EUROSTAT, is the second most expensive country in telecommunications costs and the Prime Minister comes out and tells us that we have reduced the mobile telephony fee. Wait, you guys, wait a minute, the most expensive internet we have. I, in the house I live in, in Panorama Thessaloniki, had to get satellite and pay 50 euros a month, because it doesn't have the Panorama internet, it doesn't have internet pillars, it doesn't have lines. Is it, Mr. Comrade? He doesn't. We're talking from the exact areas. Christ and God bless you! Now listen. I will not say about the Competition Committee. Your kids are in there anyway. They had theirs, you have yours. I remember you were fighting with each other who you're gonna put over there. Hey, there's the big business. EUR 100 million becomes a fine, becoming a 500 grand, EUR 70 million fine becomes a hundred grand. You don't make a state like this. It doesn't make a state like that. How will Greece become competitive? How will Greece become productive? It's not going to be yours. The one logic here 'give, give me a bar', you lower head 'give, give me a loan'. Well, that's not how it works. We must make a plan to produce wealth. That's not how it works! How are we going to produce? It's impossible with your logic. That is why we are proud of our national logic, it is patriotic, it is productive, above all in favour of the Greek people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So why is it that meat prices are rising? None of you know and you're not obliged to know. But the ministers need to know. There's been a 60% increase in feedingstuffs. Greece does not have the capacity to have feed industries. Some small businesses are importing. Sales price of pork 1.20 to 1.30 live weight. Damage? 0.23 per kilo of the living, because the cost of production is more expensive than the sale. I mean, a pork hundred pounds has 23 euros of damage. Where would the other production do it? He throws them away and leaves them there. Is that how we're going to produce products? So we're going to give our children meat, when 80% of them are imported into the food souvlaki, this ancient Greek package? They had it Buddhists mostly in ancient times. The Buddhists knew of spleen and chickens. There's vases in particular. The Minister's here, he knows. The Minister knows that well. The souvlaki is Greek. Yes, but the meat is Dutch, it's from Denmark. It's not Greek. We didn't even keep that bulb, guys. And I could say other examples. The same for agriculture as pesticides. Here's what's best for you. It is no longer in the interest of Greece to produce a product of agriculture, and that regrets me, because I come from Pella, where this region along with central Macedonia and Thessaly could feed all of Greece. It's no longer in the interest of cultivating a field. A win? EUR 110 per acre. How do you get out? Pesticides, fertilizers. So what are many of them doing? They import them and sell them. They're being wholesalers or merchants. So what are many of them doing? The photovoltaics found here. In the mother land, the Greek uterus, the fruit uterus, they put iron and we won't have to eat in a few years. That's a crime. Give it - I repeat - incentives for Greece to produce. Give preconditions for producing wealth. We're not going well. Protect Greek products. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You have abandoned the products of nominal origin. I went to Germany and found, Mr. Screka, South African cheese feta. South Africa feta I found Greek! And thankfully, the Member of the European Parliament has raised a matter in the European Parliament with the Kalamata olives in Egypt, and it has become a matter in the European Parliament and has come out of a directive. Protect them. If you want to solve a problem, I've said it a thousand times. I saw the Prime Minister's gone, he doesn't like to hear proposals. He likes to fight with Mr. Tsipras about the little ones, because the big ones agree. Have you heard anyone disagree with the economy? Why don't you do it? The bosses, Germans and lenders, and what they say, say 'yes', do not say 'no'. I say, then, that you do quality checks at the Bulgarian and Turkish borders. There with milk, let's check them out, pesticides, fertilizers, lettuces, whatever you want, they're going through a trailer. Do you understand? And we sell them here and people's health is at risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u21	Mr President, a request for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u22	Two minutes and I'll close, Mr. President. In any case, I have a second word, so that is where I shall say it about the economy and our proposals, in my second language, Mr President. Development of the primary sector. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, what are you talking about? Now the price explosion begins. You know that? According to a report from EUROSTAT, we are now starting a price party, now that we are talking. We're not going well in the economy. Can I tell you the prices? 29% of the oil. Goat, increases in cheese, increases in meat. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, as you practice politics, as things do, I see a new social order being created. You drive them, you are the moral and natural perpetrators. So since they leveled the middle class, after they disappeared it, you now come with your own choices to make the middle class newly populated Greeks. We won't allow it. We will fight for the middle-class and wide-popular strata, the worker, the wager, the retired person, every Greek who is mingling and producing wealth. Every Greek who has the right and must have the right to be paid and to have a life insurance policy. Do not risk at all times and at any time. And can I tell you one last thing? I am sure you agree with everything we say. I am sure that many of you disagree with the policy being pursued. But another thing to be sure and more to prove it in practice. Stand up and say at some point and your great "no" in the New Democracy to honor your voters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u23	Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group on his own protagonist, is in Stepma. I would remind you that Prime Minister five o'clock has to leave. I would remind you that everyone spoke more than the Prime Minister, while the Rules dictate something different.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to talk today, in fact. By listening to the Prime Minister, if I hadn't known what's going on in this country, I would have imagined this was a new phenomenon, which was imported. Isn't that what he said? Listening to Mr. Tsipras, I would think he agrees with the Prime Minister. And that's something new. Mr Tsipras said: 'Today the people are facing and accuracy'. Why the other night? Two years ago? Five years ago? All thirteen years didn't the people treat accuracy? Ladies and gentlemen, even if prices fall, when your income falls, your pension falls faster, you go to the supermarket and the second week of the month you don't go out anymore. You treat the de facto accuracy regardless of whether the prices go up or down. Because even when prices came down, we had deflation until very recently. And at the beginning of this year. The salary is reduced, the pension is reduced as it has been in 2009, 2010 and thereafter. Precision and more tolerance, that's what matters. The month's not coming out. The inconvenience of the month not coming out. That has been a given thing for thirteen years. I have heard the Prime Minister speak of a rapid increase in the purchasing power of the middle family, the third largest in Europe, he says. Something like that. Where did you see that, Prime Minister? The wage share as a percentage of GDP declines systematically thirteen years. According to your ELSTAT. According to this lousy ELSTAT. I'll come to ELSTAT. I have heard the Prime Minister once again using Mr Tsipras' methods. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your leader spoke of the tough memos. There are no hard and soft memoirs. The memorials are given that they are cruel. And the first and second. And the third of yours may have been the toughest. Is it possible to speak of a real confrontation when Mr. Tsipras cut off the ESS? Left-wing government cut off the CSCE. What was the ESS? Can I remind you? It was 100 pounds over 200-300 euros of the minimum pension. Left-wing government cut it. And then what did he do to earn some points? Some tips. 'Take a pension in December'. One. And what's the Prime Minister doing? Exactly the same. He came today to tip the pensioners, tip the people of the National Health System. So take a lump sum that they would call on MacKinsey, which is exactly Mr Tsipras's policy. So, why did you bring us here, Mr. President, today? To say one is doing what another did, but does it a little better? Is that what this is about? I will be thankful to the title of today's meeting: 'Approximately'. Precision lasts thirteen years. Tolerance lasts thirteen years. Ignorance for many lasts thirteen years. This has not changed and will not change with the tips, as long as the country is locked in what we in Mera25 call debt colony. So the three alphas, indulgence, accuracy, indifference, thirteen years, will last and will continue to hold as long as we implement exactly the same policies. But we also have a quarter of 'a', we have the unreliability, the unreliability of statistics. The Prime Minister said something before, in his prototype. He said: 'At least we agree on the data'. But how do we agree with the data? Today, so, I re-entered, once again - I have this custom, I enter almost every day - on ELSTAT's website to look - we are talking about accuracy, aren't we, Mr President? - to check ELSTAT's evidence, actually, Prime Minister. And I went to see in 2000, did 2001 make any revisions of that huge lie of the great green statistics? Let me remind you that we were told that in 2000 - that is, the year before we entered the euro, when we still had a drachma - inflation was 3.2%. That's what ELSTAT said today. In 2001, do you remember everything coming up, all by transferring it from the drachma to the euro? ELSTAT even today tells us that since 2000 in 2001 we have gone from 3.2% to 3.4%, that is, we have only increased 0.2%. Tell anyone out there who has contact with reality, that when we went from drachmas to the euro, in drachmas we had 0.2% increase in inflation, and do you realize that there is no question of the credibility of this ELSTAT? Let's come to today. Mr Stavoura, what will you say that inflation on average in 2021 was in your budget? I heard Mr. Mitsotakis. He spoke about increasing the market value of the price of the household basket for food - did you say so, Mr Mitsotakis, did you not say that? - by 0.6% of that. Okay, are you serious? Have you been to the supermarkets? The price of supermarkets averaged, the household basket of households or households in general, even in the first lockdown was at least 10% to 15%. The world's on it. There were reasons. There was the fact that the means of transport had been frozen because of Lockdown. Plus, so many goods were thrown away. Ask our farmers. So much goods has been thrown away. We were saying take them and sell them to the people's markets, you didn't listen to us, but it doesn't matter. And, of course, the supermarkets, which are the largest cartel in this country, with huge percentages of profit, when such a precipitation of supply is made due to lockdown, had 10% to 15% increase in supermarket shelves the basic goods. Are you gonna tell us now about 0.6%? We, as Mera25, please do what you said should become a reality. We have to agree on the statistics. But who? That tresthalous ELSTAT? Greek statistics prove to be immortal. The same ones that have been exposed to us internationally show us today. You have abstained from uncomfortable truths, Mr. Mitsotakis. You have built a "Metsoverse", to mention our friend Mark Zookerberg. And the cost of this unreliability is too great and not only in the area of accuracy. You will allow me to make a very small parentheses about pandemic. Because unreliableness is the greatest enemy of the vaccination program, for which you know Merra25 is absolutely a brute of the government. You proclaim your faith in science. I do not know if you read the latest copy of NATURE in which science is clear - at least in accordance with the article by Ben Davis and other scientists in the last issue of NATURE - that countries where the percentage of vaccinated is low are countries where the government's credibility is low. Think about that. I will give you an example of unreliability. We are still at the same time at the same time, because we want the vaccination rate to reach 100%. You know that. But how can you gain the confidence of the people when it is clear that you are selectively applying your authoritarianism? So I will give you an example and you know that I know that because our colleague Sophia Sakorafa is the President of the European Union. The other day, it became the Marathon. Do you know, Prime Minister, that the Greek police have sent uninvasive policemen in to do checks within the space, in the dug, but also in Kallimarmarro, and they have been forced by the organizers to drive them out? Is it possible to choose on whom uninvasive will you be authoritarian and who will not? These are the synthetic elements of your unreliability. Anyway, authoritarianism doesn't help you, and we've told you before. We have said that to me that I am vaccinated with all three doses - and I am proud of that - it is not right to have given me a pass that says that I do not have to perform any more tests, despite the fact that as vaccinated I may transmit the virus. It is important that I once again stand by the three very simple things that we love to suggest for this country, because tomorrow the vaccine may not catch the strain E, F, H, Z. You will have left the country as unprotected as it was two years ago, without the network of public free mass testing centres, which we have been saying from the outset that there should be, without a pre-invasive check for the hesitant citizens, to be able to make an appointment with a doctor in the ESS, to provide them with the statistics for their own case, given their medical history. And as far as what you have done now with half the wages, which you have given to the people of the EAW and the EHS, you, the Prime Minister of Government in the middle of a pandemic last year have reduced the costs, the expenses for the EHS, and you refuse to recruit massively in order to strengthen the EHS. We are, however, going back to the general context, especially to the accuracy. You said the price increase was imported. You're right. Citizens' tolerance is not imported, it lasts thirteen years. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Price increases are indeed imported, as is COVID -19. A government, however, is judged, Mr Mitsotakis, by whether it works as an ammortizer that depreciates shocks, vibrations that come from outside or multiplys them. Unfortunately, you are a multiplier of shocks coming from outside, vibrations, not amortiser, not a state mechanism that depreciates these shocks. I should like to refer to five issues. First of all, we're going back to the supermarkets, which I referred to before. You had at least two years to run the Competition Committee so that supermarkets would not use their dominant position on the market, so that we could have an increase of 15% -20% from the beginning of the pandemic so far in basic goods. Whatever ELSTAT says, you didn't. What are you doing instead of that? From the first lockdown you closed the popular markets that are both outdoor and then forced them to operate at 50% of their capacity. And we see why now. Because you brought us a bill recently that you basically donate people's markets to the cartels. In other words, the greatest gift to the enemies of competition in the food sector. That's what you did the two years of the pandemic. VAT. Mrs Merkel - who, anyway, is a Chancellor of a much more robust economy than ours - took the maximum VAT from 19% and took him to at least 16% for as long as the pandemic lasts. What are you doing? You got some goods from the high VAT, 24% and you took them to the low. In this country we cannot have 24% VAT. It should, at least in the middle of a pandemic, go to 15%. Are you really interested in doing something actually? Do this. You referred to the minimum wage, and I say to you: it is not just the minimum wage, it is also the social benefits. There are whole categories of our fellow people that your government, our state, has judged, and quite rightly, that they cannot get through and get benefits. To these people and those who take the minimum wage, you are not entitled to say that at some point you will decide to give an increase. You have an obligation to enter automatic indexation. It is automatic, it does not pass either by the Minister or by the Secretary-General. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Otherwise why did we get together today to actually talk about it? Otherwise there's no accuracy. You will see in Mr Stakora's budget that he will tell us that average inflation this year was 0.7%. So, Mr President of Parliament, we shouldn't have gathered together today. If average inflation is 0.7%, what is the reason to talk? Only if you want to stand up to Mr. Tsipras. Go somewhere else. Find another salt to play. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] The last two points, Mr President, which I would like to mention are as follows: one concerns our seafarers. You'll tell me: "What does our sailors have to do with it?" They've got a huge relationship. Prime Minister, you mentioned the energy price, which is a key component of increasing incoming inflation prices, but you did not refer to transport costs. Transport costs are very well known because they have increased. Because when the lockdown took place and the economies in the West were practically closed, but also in China, the ships transported products from China to Los Angeles and from China to Europe and the tankers who were going liquefied gas from Qatar to China and from Qatar to Europe did not stop in the middle of the ocean, arrived at their destination, unloaded and stuck there. And when we re-pressed the button to start the economy all the tankers were in the wrong place with our seafarers trapped in the ports for months all, with no money many times, without the possibility of getting out of the ship, without the possibility of being vaccinated, with no provision whatsoever. Do you know what that means? That we have massive resignations of seafarers, Greeks and non-Greeks, which increase transport costs. Are you doing something about this? No, you don't. Now I'm going to power and electricity. I have heard you, Mr Mitsotakis, triumph and think that this is very good, that the price of the share has risen very much because of your own policies. You don't need to know too much about the stock exchange to know that a broker, a holding company, - why are those who buy PPC shares not companies producing and distributing electricity, are funds, holding companies, predators for us in Mera25 - why buy an upgraded share - in terms of its price - in PPC if its goal is not to win more? But if he can gain more in the middle of an energy crisis, what will you do? Will you be subsidising him further when he wins more by speculating in such an energy crisis situation? Let me just say it. You mentioned, and you're right, it's not your fault. You referred to the pricing on the basis of marginal costs. What does that mean? Let's do this a lot for the people who listen to us, if anyone hears us. Assuming you have hydroelectric power, wind, photovoltaic, lignites at an average cost of 10 minutes KWh. And it's not enough for you, it takes another 10% production that comes out of natural gas, which costs 20 minutes. What does the model that SYRIZA introduced with the energy stock exchange? What does that mean for the price of every KWh? It means that it will be honored to the most accurate kilowatts now produced by natural gas. So what does that mean? It means that when the gas price rises, because Putin reduces the amount it offers, because it pressures Mrs Merkel and Mr Solts on Nord Stream 2 - it doesn't matter because the profits of the companies that have bought the pieces of old PPC that do not use natural gas are increasingly profitable. That's called a payroll, that's called a snatch. That's why they pay more for the shares you privatize PPC in this process. You have to decide. Your subsidy is a consumer subsidy or a subsidy from the payroll, which does not come to support the consumer, does not pay more than nine times the share of PPC to support the consumer, but pays it to be supported by the consumer both through the invoice and through your own subsidies that ultimately burden the Greek consumer's debt. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here the party of the plundering program, New Democracy, a New Democracy, which even blacks out the name of its founder, Constantine Karamanlis, who founded the Public Power Corporation, because he knew that the private sector cannot produce and distribute electricity in that country. You, as you go, will set up a new anti-Caramanic EPE, a national radar union. That's what you're going to do. As for you, will you apologise to the Greek people for such pricing on the basis of marginal costs? Why did you come here and - it was very interesting and I have to say that - you kept giving these accounts to the Minutes, which I believe you did, and you did too well to show what people are dealing with out there. Yes, but what you're referring to in there was specified to be from what you signed in the third and fourth memorandum from the establishment of the Energy Exchange. Didn't you accept the invoicing according to marginal cost? The government of Mr. Mitsotakis did not accept that. It was taken for granted, that when the gas price was increased, this will happen in PPC's tariffs. I understand that going against this European Union policy means a break with the European Union. Is Mr Koutsoubas right here, who is not here at the moment, to ask if you think that all this can be done by angelic means in this purely monopolistic predator policy coming from the European Union as well? We, in Mera25, as Europeans, answer Mr Koutsouba's question and say: No, it is not without a break, which is why we are the party of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u25	We are entering the ballot dance and Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, is called at Step. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u26	It was so much of the interest of SYRIZA MPs for the pre-dated agenda discussion that the political opposition party itself raised, which, Mr Tsipras, if you were in the Chamber, between two and four of your Members during the speeches of the other political leaders. You have at least the responsibility as Head of Parliament since you ask the House to discuss such a serious issue with your own responsibility to ensure that the image of your own parliamentary group is not so derogatory. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I consider it positive, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Mr Tsipras, even with some relative difficulty, embarrassing, has said that he supports the additional measures to relieve our most vulnerable fellow citizens that the government has announced today. I would have hoped for this tactic, Mr Tsipras, to have followed it in the past, when you systematically voted against a series of important interventions, with the support of those affected by natural disasters, which, unfortunately, your party did not vote in favour. Nevertheless, the fact that we can agree today, here in this Chamber, that the support we give in the context of budgetary possibilities is in a positive direction, I am keeping it as one of the few positive conclusions of agreement in this debate, which we are conducting. I now come to four topics in response to the concerns and objections I have heard from the Heads of Parliament. Firstly, it is very disgraceful, Mr Varoufakis, ladies and gentlemen, because you came here to tell us that prices increased during Lockdown, without invoking any element at all - we cannot agree on who is the objective 'applicant' of the economic elements involved in the performance of the economy. I understand that in the context of your overall anti-systemicity you believe that the Hellenic Statistical Authority is therefore completely perforated and that ELSTAT is completely perforated and that the information is obviously unreliable. But we have that evidence. That is the evidence we have at the moment. They are the elements of EUROSTAT and they are the elements that - and I will show this table once again - the comparative course of inflation in all European countries. So I'm not asking you, Mr. Varoufakis. I ask you, Mr. Tsipras. Do you agree with that evidence, yes or no? Are you questioning them? Tell us if you're questioning them, yes or no. You can join this opportunity with your old colleague, Mr Varoufakis, and say that the evidence is unreliable. But the evidence is that. ELSTAT has a very specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u27	They're absolutely unreliable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u28	I think I understood your point of view, Mr. Varoufakis. I'm not asking you, Mr. Tsipras. You were very direct to your position. I ask Mr Tsipras: is it or is it not reliable for ELSTAT? Is ELSTAT, or is it not reliable, which is embedded in EUROSTAT?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u29	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u30	Because I do not see here in EUROSTAT's official figures there being an asterisk, a footnote, a question of questioning the accuracy of the data. In the budget, which it submitted a few days ago, the Greek Government presents evidence that the price level today has not yet reached, despite the increase observed - because there was a great deflation in Greece in the months of the pandemic - at the level of 2019. That's evidence. If we cannot agree, then, on what facts we are discussing, I fear, Mr Tsipras, that this debate does not make any sense. So if you are questioning these official figures, please come out and say it, argue about why you are questioning them, send a very good letter to EUROSTAT, which denounces ELSTAT that it shows false evidence. At least you will be consistent with what you say! However, we cannot come to this Chamber, call on arguments of the type 'I see', 'I heard', 'I said, 'Have you been to the supermarket?', 'have you not been to the supermarket?', to present a picture different from that which is reflected in official figures. Obviously there is an increase in prices, and there is an increase in prices especially in Greece, which is noticeable, because, as I have said to you, Greece has been very deflationary. But can I tell you something? deflation is the product of a ten-year crisis. Yes, we had a ten-year downturn in incomes, and we had deflation, we had a reduction in prices. Now that we have a steep growth, yes, we also have an increase in prices. We believe that in its intensity this will be a temporary phenomenon. So I insist that you tell us, Mr Tsipras, whether you agree or not with the official figures, so that we know at least what the basis of the debate is. And the official figures, you know, give us very interesting comparative data, compared to other countries. You referred once again to Spain. I understand that you have a special sympathy to Mr Sanchez's government supported by Podemos. However, Spain, Mr Tsipras, on the basis of the official figures from EUROSTAT, has shown no divergence in unemployment over the last two years. None. Unemployment in Spain has increased on Mr Sanchez and Mr Podemos. It's down in Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, because I have seen that you have been disturbed by the reference made to Mr Sanchez's inappropriate appearance in Ankara, where I have heard statements that are in complete contrast with the decisions of the European Council, I formally ask you to put yourself in this regard, because I am still looking to find a statement by the SYRIZA about your otherwise ideological counterpart and I have not found it. Here, then, is a glorious field for you, with the same intensity as Mr Sanchez's positions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to a revulsion of your speech where you spoke - take note - you to us on creative accounting, saying that, in fact, the evidence we present does not correspond to reality and the citizens are experiencing a very great difficulty. And I am the last one to underestimate the difficulty of any increase in any price to a household today, but, Mr Tsipras, take note of what government you are talking about. And I ask you. Is the reduction of HISBIA creatively accountable? Is the reduction in the tax rate creative? Is it creatively accountable to reduce the income tax on enterprises from 28% to 22%? Is the reduction in employers' contributions creatively accountable? Is it creatively accountable to zero parental benefits? [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Haven't all this ever happened? Aren't we fellow citizens today who transferred their property to their children without paying a single tax? Is that all there is in a bullet in the fantasy? Are they products of the communication superpower of New Democracy, which buys from polls to publications? Aren't citizens aware of a simple reality today? You broke the middle class into the taxes and we're going to give back to the middle class what you got them. Aren't citizens aware of this today? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I therefore wonder why you are coming back with so much tension to present a picture that is different from what the citizens are aware of today. I don't want to get wrong, and I'll say it one more time. We do not present any ideal picture, nor do we want to see reality through deforming lenses. However, in recent years Greece has managed to break the vicious cycle of underdevelopment, budgetary aberrations and poverty that ultimately leads to overtaxation of your own policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the overall expectations for the Greek economy, not only for the next six months, for the next year, in the medium term, are extremely positive today. And positive expectations for the economy ultimately means positive expectations for all Greek citizens. I will then come to all these nice things you have said about the so-called deals that the government is doing and that it serves only certain business interests. The best answer - I will say again - on all your grounds of allegedly class monopolies in favour of the few of this government is the creation of many well-paid new jobs from the investment explosion currently taking place in Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is something that you can question as much as you think you can or want. I regret, however, that the reality is quite different from what you want to show here today in this Chamber. Check on the market. It seems to me that while he was here today, Mr. Georgiadis, to whom you are usually referring extensively, you have today diverted from this tactic. But, obviously, I understand that when I am in the Chamber, I monopolize your interest. That's understandable. I would like to remind you, however, that this government in Law 4818/2021 voted for Article 58 which, perhaps you know, may have escaped you, because it is of its particular importance - it stipulates that during the pandemic - this provision will expire at the end of the year, but for at least a further six months, companies may not have, to say the least, a greater profit of wholesale from which they had before the pandemic. It is up to the State’s control mechanisms to control this kind of ‘excessive’ which could, in fact, be combined with abuse of either a dominant position or a strong position of undertakings at a time when prices increase, at least, the raw materials. So we have the legal instrument. I can assure you that many checks are carried out and checks are carried out by the State's control mechanisms, the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection, but of course the independent Competition Committee is also doing so. It is interesting to refer you to the Competition Committee and to the person who manages it, to Mr Lianos. You said you didn't know him. I didn't know him either. But I knew Mrs Thanos. I knew Mrs Thanou very well. You know her very well, too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So be very careful when you talk about the possible manipulation of independent authorities, because the placement of Mrs Thanos was a carabinatist violation of the basic principle of separation of powers, to put a man of your own there! So much for being appointed and advisor to the Prime Minister one day after retiring from the Supreme Court. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the Competition Committee today is an active competition committee, at least to the extent that I can be informed and updated ex post. I'm being informed of the publicity of the checks he's doing. You'll be aware of it, and I imagine that there have been checks in both banks and telecommunications companies, in supermarkets and in wholesale trade. Checks are done. So tell us exactly why you blame us. Why are we not asking the independent Competition Committee to carry out more checks? Are you accusing us of deterring the Competition Committee from doing checks? What exactly is going on here? And do we ultimately trust the Competition Committee? I personally trust her. You have also referred to a debate which is currently taking place between the Competition Committee and the Ministry of Development on the further rationalisation of the competition law framework. We are still in an open debate with the committee. We have not reached the final legislative text which will be submitted to Parliament. We take into account all the points of view of the Committee, the European Committee on Competition and the market, and we will ultimately find a framework for further rationalisation of fairness, competition, but without - and I want to be clear here - going beyond or going far beyond the best practices currently in force in Europe, I dare say to countries where at least the application of competition law is more advanced, have greater experience in these matters than there is in our country at least. I now come to the question of PPC. Yes, sir. Do you see this chart? Do you see it well? What does that chart say? This chart says that the value of your share for your own days, when you handed over power, was 1 euro. What's the stock value today? It's about nine euros. What is the value of public shares when the company held 51%? It was 200 million. What is the value of the shares in the government today that holds 34%? It's 1.2 billion! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you dare come to this room to talk about PPC, which you have gone bankrupt, after you have taken the trade unionists, after you have done everything you have done in your power to do allegedly social policy on the back of the taxpayers and, ultimately, the firm's own strength to ask for the change from this government, why did you do exactly what, Mr Tsipras? Is that what you committed yourself to? Were you committed, Mr. Tsipras, to sell PPC's share, yes or no? I'm expecting even one of your nodes. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, were you committed to selling PPC's share? Silence! Silence on the side of SYRIZA. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. Femelle, were you committed? You can tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u31	SYRIZA ensured public control, while you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u33	...you sold it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u34	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u35	Budget 2018: Revenue by magic! Estimated revenues from PPC's segregation two hundred fifty, DESFA 100, PPC 100. A hundred? Just a hundred? A hundred for exactly what percentage, Mr. Tsipras? What percentage? Just a hundred? What percentage would you sell to PPC exactly? You finally didn't sell anything. And tell you why you didn't sell anything? It's very interesting. Because the CEO of PPC, which you had placed, Mr. Panayotakis, came along, and said two things in an interview he gave now: Yes, to the capital increase of PPC, and if we were to sell in 2018, we would not get any euros. Your CEO says that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In such an exceptional situation, the Public Power Corporation had arrived for your own days. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because you told us that the operation was no longer a public business, on your own days it was no longer a business. There wouldn't be anything. PPC would have been bankrupt, and the entire electricity market would have went bankrupt together if PPC had collapsed and now we would have been in a tragic position, where PPC could not only support more vulnerable consumers, but we would have to talk about major state aid to keep the company upright. And you're not telling me, Mr. Tsipras: we're keeping 34% of the operation. And we keep 34% of the company doing exactly what? By putting in business nearly 1.4 billion euros. Where's that money going? They go to PPC's green investment, they go to the development of the electricity network, they go, yes, to PPC's expansion in the Balkans. Mr Vellopoulou, because we spoke a little about Balkan policy and the fact that the country is importing energy, it is well importing energy and it is well exporting energy. In a European market the best guarantee that we do not have great energy changes is a market with connections, which will work. So that's where the investors' money went, who entered PPC. And when we talk about a capital increase that was completed within three hours, this is a vote of confidence in the company, it is a vote of confidence in the administration of the company appointed by the government and it surrounds it with its confidence, it is also a vote of confidence in the government itself that ensures the institutional framework within which the public electricity company is moving. Do you not tell me, do you know who the public is, Mr Tsipras? In the 'ENEL', what is the participation of the Italian State? Do you know her? You don't know her. It's 23.58%. In the RWE, what is the participation of the German State? It's 2.8%. In 'EON' 0%. The 35% Gaz de France. In the 'ENGIE', France's second largest electricity company, public participation is 23.6%. We keep 34% and commit that we will not fall out of this. We fully control the company with 34%. We absolutely control the company at this rate, we fully control the management of the company and, obviously, we look forward to the creation and greater value for the shareholders. But because you are criticising us that we have not taken money and that the percentage of public funds has been diluted by capital increase, are you not telling me, Mr Tsipras, the money you would have received, where would they go? Would they go to the low pensioners or debt repayment? Second of all, obviously. So why are you coming here and lying one more time, that we're selling out the business when any money would go directly to the debt payout? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And lastly, because you came here and showed us a series of accounts: these accounts, indeed, concern mostly business activities, because, yes, a farmer who pays 4,000 euros is a great farmer, obviously, who has great consumption, obviously because he does a lot of drilling. Another problem, which forces us to consider the speed of the green transition as a whole. What you did not say, however, about the increase which is true, is that there is also a loss of energy on the account - in what you have shown - and the loss of energy that PPC is doing itself is of the order of 849 euros. PPC is able to make this discount, reduce the increase - it is important to increase - precisely because it has the financial capacity to do so. And we had to make a decision as a government: will we support households and especially the weakest households, or will we support businesses? And we decided that our first emphasis is on households. The household doesn't have the choice to cross the cost. For the company, energy is a raw material, it is a factor of production, has the potential either to make greater arrangements or to pass the increase further. The household doesn't have that possibility. That's why you didn't show any of the low household accounts, because you know very well that there are no substantial increases over there! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are the possibilities that we have as an economy to support households and partly businesses, the smaller companies. Since the phenomenon continues in 2022 and we enter the next budget, we will explore further possibilities for supporting the real economy in order to deal with this phenomenon. But also a comment to Mr Velopoulos, because I think that a great myth is moving around the issues of lignite and to some extent also of natural gas, that we must remain in lignite for a long time yet, we must find our own gas, or we must be very dependent on natural gas. The decision to leave the lignite is a decision that has no return and has no return to the government, not only because it imposes the right policy at world level, but it is also the right option from an economic point of view, because lignites are now not the lignites that were ten, fifteen years ago. Because there is the additional cost that comes and is added to the cost of producing lignite, which was undoubtedly cheap and the lignite has fed all the development of the country for seventy years. But today, when the cost of rights is added to the cost of lignite, lignite is very simply not economically competitive. The cheapest form of energy in the country is renewable energy, wind and solar energy. And I say this because there are various conspiracy theories on the so-called array of winds. We heard them and then the catastrophic fires that took place in Evia. Tell us at last, gentlemen of SYRIZA, exactly what energy mix do you imagine the country will have in the next five, fifteen, thirty years? For so far, you have not said anything about defoliation. You are actually closing your eyes in areas that will actually be in a difficult phase in connection with the transition, and that is why I will be in Kosani together with the staff on Friday, explain our plan for a fair green transition. What exactly do you say about wind turbines? Where do they have to go? Do they have to get into the land? Do they have to get into the sea? And if so, where? How about photovoltaics? What penetration rate must they have in the energy mix? How about natural gas? Is it a transition fuel? Do we want it? Do we not want to, as some environmental organizations say, encourage us to leave faster? Speak, finally, in particular! You ruled four, four and a half years. You cannot move in the sphere of cloudy and abstract. Tell us 'our own proposal for the energy mix in the country', to listen to it at last, to be able to assess it. I close, with a wider political observation. You came here, Mr. Tsipras, and you told us we were doing deal. You didn't say that for the first time. Deal, as if there is no Greek word, you have to permeate it, what they call it. I imagine you'd mean we're doing business. All right, well, we're doing business. Well, it's not the first time you've said it. You have come and from what I know, because I have not been here - usually the very hard and extreme things you say make sure you always say them when I'm not in the Chamber - you spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u36	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u37	You spoke here to the Minister of Defence about the Educational Center in Kalamata. And you didn't just talk, you threatened directly! You threatened the Minister. And all right, the Minister is a political person, but you also threatened service actors. Forget it. Threats to this government no longer passes! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The time when you came into the government. You then had the freshness of the young man and the expectation that you would win the election and tell investors, don't you dare come and invest. Do you remember all these nice things you told us in 2014 when you were going to rip up the memoirs with a law and an article? That's what you say now, no one will believe you. Because no one thinks you're going to win the election again! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Against political faces and political opponents, you can say what you want. You will not, however, be threatening officials from the Armed Forces, who are directly recommended to the political leadership on extremely sensitive issues, such as the question of the Centre for the Training of our Flyers in Kalamata and to think that this will all go through without answering them. And anyway, we have done a deal. One! We call it a deal of truth. It is deal with the Greek people and for the moment, as I understand both sides are very satisfied with the deal. And we and the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u38	The Chief of Staff Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is now called for his ten-minute term of office. It seems that if these are complied with - and why not? - the Prime Minister has been able to go on his date, for which he has asked us to show understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u39	Okay, but he talked 30-seven minutes if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u40	He spoke less of all so far, proportionately and literally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u41	Mr President, I was in my time in twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u42	Mr. Scandalides and Mr. Varoufakis have kept their time. The only mistake is that he gave the government the establishment of PPC. PPC was founded on the PPC's PPC Government. Come on, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u43	Listening to Mr Mitsotakis throughout his post, I will refer to the high tone he has used, get his answers, I want to talk about the substance of his intervention - concern grew up to me too - but, okay, I am not trusted by him, I am his political opponent - and to the average citizen watching us, to the citizens who see the accuracy of drowning them and cannot get them out of the second week of the month, and he can tell us here that inflation is low, to the entrepreneurs, to the workers. Anguish grows to the average citizen, as a Prime Minister sees - even to the voters of the New Democracy - who is negative of reality and even greater of my agony when I watch Mr Mitsotakis tell us once again that the crisis of accuracy is temporary and will pass. He says the same thing he told us three times about the pandemic. "The pandemic is over," "we defeated the pandemic," "the last mile we are with the pandemic." And at the time when Mr Mitsotakis is going to come up with this step, in an institutional process, at the question of the Chief of Police Response on a matter that burns every Greek household and tells us that the accuracy and crisis will be transient, Mrs Lagard comes, the President of the European Central Bank, who anticipates that the problem of accuracy, this crisis has come to remain and that the rise in energy prices and the resulting impact on European inflation will probably last longer than pandemic. I am tabling this in the Minutes, so that the average citizen who is following today what is the level of Mr Mitsotakis' intervention. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] He's coming here, he's climbing to Stepma not to talk to the citizens looking into their eyes, but to get a bithymbic title for iefimerida. All right, she'll either say or you won't say all the rest of the site. I don't want to discriminate. Will you speak the language of the truth? Well, it's temporary, then. It's the crisis. And even greater is my concern when I see the preliminary draft budget, and I see that the expenditure planned to support households, businesses to deal with accuracy in 2022 is zero, cookies. All right, Mr. Mitsotakis, you can go to Stepma to tell us what you want, tell us that the accounts have not been up - so you said - to the poor households, tell us about inflation in our country. Are you saying that for good? Because inflation will rise in the next period. Of course, we know very well that the rise in inflation in Greece appears with a time-lag over the rest of Europe, as in almost all the sizes of the economy due to the lower involvement of the Greek economy with the international economy and the global trade chains. That's registered. But let's get out of this. It is another thing that the accuracy he pays for and hurts - I repeat, it does not sell, because this accuracy relates to basic types of consumption - the pocket of the people's families and the middle class. All the examples that I mentioned in the accounts I submitted here were not big business. It was middle class. And it is another thing to say about inflation, which is about the country's GDP. In any case, I would like to say something to you, which Mr Varoufakis said - and he was right - and you did not hold it back. The share of income that goes to wages in our country, year after year, shrinks. It has reached 34% - the two years you are ruling has been dramatically shrinking - against 48% in the middle of the Eurozone, according to ELSTAT's figures, which I do not consider unreliable. So I answer you, Mr Mitsotakis. While the company's operating profits account for 54% of income compared to 41% in the Eurozone, most of the tax exemptions you announced to us here, celebrating that you did in the first months of your governance - with foreign lilos, they tell my village - with 37 billion of the sacrifices of the Greek people SYRIZA to get the country out of the memoirs, they are in the big incomes. The overwhelming part headed for high incomes. Therefore, the average increases in your incomes have a zero value for the social majority, for the middle-class and for popular households. But you're telling us that the economy is scoring. If the economy is looting, then why do you not actually support households and businesses? Why does Mr. Skylakakis freeze payments and leave unpaid workers and businesses? Why have you fallen so far outside the most critical you have to do since the pandemic in terms of the economy, Mr Staikoura, at this time? It is the utilization and disbursement of the Recovery Fund's resources, absorption. What did you say to us, Mr Stavoura and Mr Mitsotakis, a year ago in the budget for 2021? You told us that in 2021 we'd have an absorption of 2.6 billion. That's what you wrote in the budget. What did you tell us in the mid-term of June when he passed us? You told us that we'd finally have 1.6 billion and that you were wrong. What is the absorption we have right now? Will he tell us that you're counting until time is closed? Hardly 150 million! Because you are sloppy because neither this essential issue can be implemented with a plan correctly, nor can you just come to say that there is no problem and that the crisis is temporary. Your SYRIZA has proposed concrete measures, very specific measures: the increase in the minimum wage you receive while you promised it in the election. The reduction of excise duty at the minimum levels foreseen by the European Commission. The freezing as far as the whole of the farmers are concerned. They are survival measures at this time when this wave of accuracy defines the average household and the medium-sized business. Do you know what benefit the average citizen would have at this time if these measures were implemented? Since the economy's been robbing, why don't you apply them? An average household where it takes in the winter months at least a thousand litres of oil, which is multiple in the northern and mountainous regions of our country, if what was applied here in Spain was also applied - and we proposed it by amendment and rejected it - would pay at least EUR 300 per thousand litres depending on the price created in each region. With this amendment we also tabled on unleaded petrol, each citizen in his IX would pay at least EUR 25 less on each filling of the reservoir, i.e. EUR 100 less per month. So make a calculation to see. In the case of agricultural oil, an average crop for the whole year takes about twenty thousand litres of oil. With the amendment we tabled and rejected, we will pay less than EUR 2 000. These would be relief measures along with the raising of the minimum wage, but you do not choose them. You went out to the Thessaloniki International Fair and said you were exempting the parental benefits of 800 thousand euros, which if two parents are parents and three children cumulatively go to 4,8 million euros. Is that the social need today? Take less than the state than those who have the ability to provide 4.8 million in parental property benefits? That's why we're telling you that your policy is a class policy, it's partisan policy, except that it takes the view of the few and strong, in favour of 1% of Greek society and the rest of 99% is experiencing the crisis. Where is the middle class within this spectrum in your appreciation, Mr. Mitsotakis? Is the favored or the ones who are paying the marble today? In any case, we are telling you some of the suggestions you are rejecting. The European Commission, the Commission, comes and proposes a toolbox. I'll tell you very briefly why they're familiar. It proposes: Suspension of payments for vulnerable consumers, not rhetoric, reduction of tax rates on vulnerable persons, reduction of excise duty and checks on cartels. That is what the European Commission proposes, among other things. SYRIZA submits two amendments incorporating rhetoric, suspending payments to vulnerable people, reducing tax rates and denying them, voting against them. If a country in the European Union today needed to implement these guidelines, it is Greece that has these wonderful prices. They are implemented by other European Union countries. You do not apply them, you rejected them. Not only do you reject our proposals, but you reject what the European Commission is proposing. What do you want me to tell you to realize? You don't believe SYRIZA. Yes, sir. Come here. Publication of ‘KATHMERINI’. "Energy: The current is accurate everywhere, but in Greece it is more expensive." This post is on November 1st, now, this month. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. It is a post of ‘KATHMERINI’. It is not said in 'SYNEY'. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] 14 November: 'Price increases in basic goods'. He's talking about the supermarket. What's he saying? "The reserves of the old invoicing supermarkets are exhausted and new receipts are much more expensive. There will be a great deal of precision in the supermarkets next." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Today we have received the letter from the municipal companies that say they can no longer bear any more and that they will transfer the cost to the consumer. In other words, we will have a generalised trend in growth over the next period and you are pretending to be nothing. Official Journal of the European Union It's not "HAY", I repeat. 'The accuracy, torpedo in family budgets'. It makes a calculation that average income has been charged at least EUR 166 a month and this is due not only to the increase. This was in relation to calculations that were about two months ago. It's not only about electricity, but also about basic goods, increases in rent, and here you come and tell us that we're going well. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So I'm worried about your inadequacy, I'm worried because you're negative of reality, I'm worried because we have a Prime Minister who only wants to do it is communication, the image. Before I go to PPC, I'll go to the Competition Committee. Mr. Mitsotakis, a moment ago Mr. Mylonakis, who sits here in the chairs as an institutional agent, Secretary General of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u44	Please! Come on. With masks, we don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u45	Excuse me. What can we do here now? We're in trouble. Your colleague, then, has been the director of Mr. Kyritsakis' office. Or am I wrong? Isn't that right? That was the previous chairman of the Committee on Competition, before Mrs Thanos, who did not like you, because for a short time she was a ministerial minister with the consent of all parties. Indeed, it has been in my office for a while, as has been a consultant for many years, and in your office the former senior minister in the judiciary and current Deputy Prime Minister. However, did Mr Kyritsakis have in the Competition Committee your close partner and now and then in the Ministry, which was Minister, and you come to us to teach us that we are the last to speak because we are intervening in the functioning of the Competition Committee? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You also brought an amendment a few days ago in which you want judges to be at ministerial offices as advisers. So do you really want to talk about who has the logic of interfering and who does not have the logic of intervening? Let's get to the point. What's the point? It is that the Competition Committee today should and could - I do not know what is the reason why it is not doing its job properly - to make much more substantial contributions towards cartels and harmonised practices. You told me you trusted her president. If you trust him, find them with Mr. Georgiadis, not with me and give him responsibilities. In this case, I note that it cannot be three months after the price increases have been raised in question by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the official response of the Competition Committee is as follows: 'We recommend working parties to see what is going on with electricity tariffs'. That's not an answer. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] PPC. How low? Was it necessary to bring a post that Mr. Panayotakis disproved? I hope you're wrong. What you mentioned was that Mr. Panayotakis has said is a post that Mr. Panayotakis himself had denied. Here, I give it to you in the Minutes. I hope you didn't know. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I think Mr. Mitsotakis' associates did not know that Mr. Panayotakis was in denial in an absolutely provocative and false post. But I'm actually coming. You told us and gave us a sign of the value of the share then and the value of the share today. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis, are consumers who are paying these great bills today getting dividends from PPC shares? They get a dividend and when they're paying, they're worth it, they're gonna have money to pay for the great bills? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And since it's like you say it, because we had a lower share price, even though we supported the average household and the average company, why does that have to be the role of a public electricity company, since that is so, since the value of PPC's shares is so much higher and PPC's value overall, why did you sell, why did you sell, why did you not enter into the increase in share capital? Give me an answer. Immediately you caused enormous damage to the public interest. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And in any case, it is sad to have you come to these benches and shake my finger, citing the budgets of the memorials in 2018, when you knew that we were with the gun to the head and when you were saying "the Vassile Soibelle" and when we resisted the sale of PPC and the sale of public property and the increase of pensions. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Then you were telling us - and that is why we were forced - to close the evaluations, to commit ourselves - that we would do something about pensions. And when we fought and took it back, you told us that we sold Macedonia out for pensions. But we don't forget that. That's who you are. The Greek people don't forget this either, no matter how much you give tips today. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that time is not enough and I will try to keep my promise. I'll close and get off the Step. This debate does not end here. This is a very critical debate today and tomorrow of the middle family in our country. It is a crucial debate that will not end here, because as long as there remains a government and a Prime Minister trapped in their ideological obsessions, who are caught in the decisions they have taken and in their commitments with great interests, things will get worse in the place. Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm not threatening anyone, not an investor, nor a service agent. However, I have a responsibility, as current Chief of Officership, as well as as as Prime Minister tomorrow. When public money is squandered, when you remove tools with which we will be able to re-establish this economy, this society, such as PPC, when you move on to equipment that increases the cost of EUR 1 billion in the next 20 years, I have a responsibility to be here and to denounce them to the Greek people who will be our final judge and yours and ours and the time is bending.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u46	The Prime Minister will make an intervention and then Mr Scandalidis will then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u47	Mr. Tsipras, when you're talking about the memos you've been confronting, you remind me of the known story with the pyromantic who yells at the firehouse. You put us in the memoirs. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You destroyed the prospects of the economy for four years together with Mr Varoufakis and all these nice things you did in the first half of 2015. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And the negotiation, which we so well remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u48	Come on, come on. You're welcome. That's not behaviour. That's not behaviour. It's like denying the right to have an opinion. This cannot be accepted. Please. They are not the views of the noisy confirmation! The opinions are free. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u49	I understand for you and the SYRIZA executives who have stayed at SYRIZA how painful the assailant in July 2015 was. That's your problem. The problem is that the country paid for it very expensively. And the banks and the middle class you exaggerated to fund your unnecessarily third memorial. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are to remind you every time you tell us with such a veil that you were supposedly struggling to take the country out of the memorials in which you put it deeper with your tragic political choices. Three brief remarks. Parental provision: 800,000 or up to 800,000; I'm asking. 800,000 or up to 800,000? How many parental benefits of 800,000 were made, Mr. Tsipras? And how many parental benefits of 200,000, 250,000, of 100,000 for movable value? All of them what is it? Are they the 1% rich? When you come here and question a choice that the majority of the middle class recognizes as a relief option using your own representative's argument that it is allegedly about those of 800,000 or only 800,000, you are just one thing. Liar, liar, liar. And you will remain a liar. You will remain a liar when you come here and twist a real political choice of the government. You can't. The old huyas are unfortunately not forgotten. And I'm afraid the opposition unfortunately didn't ripe you politically. And you may have had, as I told you, the enthusiasm of the new man who might have hidden your weaknesses, now you are a formerly failed Prime Minister recorded in the conscience of the Greek people as a man who ruled four years and lost three elections with nine and ten points of difference. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So a little more respect when we talk and make such political controversy. If you win elections again, Mr. Tsipras, then you'll be legitimate to say you're entitled. You are not right at present. Three times you've lost in a row. That's what history wrote, and I understand why that's still causing you a relative misery. Two more things. PPC and social invoices. You're kind of messed up to me. And I am surprised that you are not aware of and cannot see the social policy which concerns vulnerable households, which is the responsibility of the State, from the company's policy. Social tariffs are not only provided by PPC. All providers are provided. The social policy of a country for vulnerable persons must not be linked to an obligation of an undertaking in an open and competitive electricity market. Why are you confusing these two? We don't have a monopoly anymore, you know. There is not only PPC that provides electricity to the retail. Don't you know that basic difference? So social policy makes the state. The State continues to support vulnerable households to a greater extent than it has been supporting them in the past. And this is a State obligation which is independent of the provider that will ultimately be chosen by the vulnerable consumer. But in a competitive market which works, we obviously want companies to compete and provide the best possible prices to attract consumers. That's how a competitive electricity market works. And one last thing. You referred to Mrs Lagard in a publication entitled 'BLOOMBERG'. And you say that in an interview with the American news network, Mrs Lagard stressed that 'the rise in energy prices will probably last longer than the pandemic'. That's it. Well. Except Mrs. Lagard said more. What can we do? Unfortunately you can't tell half the truth. For the price, Mrs. Lagard - because that's what we're asking, the prices...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u50	I hope he didn't text you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u51	For the prices 'we believe that we will return to much greater stability next year, as many of the reasons that lead to higher prices are temporary'. At last, make sure that you testify to this National Representation, be precise to it, too. But here too, unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, you have been caught once again undetected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u52	Mr Scandalidis, please as Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u53	Mr President, I shall speak from my position, firstly to make it easier for the Prime Minister to follow his programme, which I imagine is serious and secondly, because I think that dialogue is now taking place in this House. They are unreasonable themselves, barbarically, with the same arguments, with the same sort of sorting and when they go to faces, even in a way of democracy to faces, they also degrade Parliament and the parties and the functioning of democracy. So I will say four very specific things to which I believe today's debate leads: Firstly, the Prime Minister has not convinced us that the description of the problem is not afflicted with this particular social reality. We cannot talk about social dividends and everything else, when it is clear that the economic situation of the homes of vulnerable groups has a linear and continuous increase in their cost of life and function and degradation and substantially weakening their incomes. That's obvious. It is not something that took a break, where we are now talking about inflation and the day after tomorrow it will stop. For two years now and now much more because of accuracy and imported inflation, the economic situation has become unbearable and is not solved with aspirins. Well, I think the benefits announced by the Prime Minister are in the same spirit, the perched one that follows from the first day the government took over. I have not seen any serious change in the direction of politics in order to convince us that there really is a link to a hard social reality. Is that right? It is not as convincing as your word for the citizen, for the households, for the vulnerable layers of the population. Secondly, you are constantly claiming that we are in the process of developing and regenerating the country and bringing in numerical examples. Of course, after such a crisis, and after such a process, and with the relaxation of the quantity that exists, it has once again begun to rise - if you like - the national product and the pace of growth better. But I ask, again, the question: Who is development going to? I replied earlier to Mr Tsipras for the EUR 800,000. But does the Greek state not lose the social dividend that could exist, because over 300,000 to 800,000, for example, would it not receive similar amounts that could be shared better and fairer? Socio-economic policy is not a level playing field. It is done for specific classes and specific layers. The richer ones cannot get any more richer and get what is left of the table - let's say - the poorer ones. Thirdly, you are talking about energy democracy. And I ask: have the RES not only been directed to the few and strong? Has the potential of self-government, families and farmers not been effectively abolished to make such a massive policy in the RES so that we can achieve ambitious objectives in the coming years? We can only talk about the abolition of lignite and not talk about why we are enslaving to natural gas, for example, and why the RES goes to a few people and a few families. This is an anti-popular policy. How do we do it? You're talking about speculation, and speculation reigns. You're talking about checks. Controls can be carried out by authorities, controls can make the state, I don't see speculation handled. There's something rotten in the kingdom of Danimarky! These checks must never yield and we cannot have a clear feeling that this exploitation which is being exploited and shameful is being dealt with. You are also talking about lowering taxation. We say yes, there is, of course, and the measures to vote and whatever else you want. But are these measures capable of stopping the 'robbing' done by indirect taxes and 2,2 billion in excise duties on poor incomes, for some measures taken opportunely for a few months and with a very specific sum, small, lumpy ones? So here's something rotten in the kingdom of Danimarky. And I come to today's announcements, to ask with very simple words: the dividend to the beneficiaries, the very poor, why does it go only there and not twice what was before? Secondly, the issue of health. Will you ever answer what is the reason for keeping you and not approve of heavy and unhealthy? Thirdly, can we talk about an increase of 2% 'and give you something else soon'? Make a serious increase and solve it. Because each one must depend on the appetites of a minister or government, especially when what goes through is in the vulnerable layers of the population. And in any case, for the low pensioners with 250 euros, make a more permanent pension, find a CSR, do something. Give the thirteenth pension. Do one thing that is more permanent, more substantial. It's enough with these extraordinary benefits, which is the excess of the table of the rich, it's going to the poor. Those benefits are enough, they don't need any more! That is the point of today's debate and not the numbers. And I'll bring you numbers to justify what I'm telling you. And Mr. Mitsotakis has brought many numbers justifying what he says to you. And Mr. Tsipras brought many numbers to justify what he's telling you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Politics is specific, has objectives, is aimed at social classes, and if a government wants to be called progressive, it must overthrow the current social equilibrium that exists in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u54	We would like to thank Mr Scandalides once again for his time and not only. Mr Koutsouba, you now have the floor as President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u55	Mr President, it tends to consolidate this unacceptable situation within the Greek Parliament. There are huge responsibilities, first of all in the Government and in Civicism, to those who operate in this way. Of course the people draw conclusions from here too. Because Mr Mitsotakis is not here, Mr Tsipras is missing, the groups, those who should be here today, that is, the two hundred Members who have said from the beginning, are missing to complete the whole debate. And to properly adjust their schedule and time. Since he had a meeting with the Ecumenical Patriarch at five o'clock this afternoon, the meeting had to start at least half an hour earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u56	Keeping track of times doesn't make you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u57	These things aren't allowed. It is the second time that this has been happening in order to listen to Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras, the Members of the New Democracy and of SYRIZA who have voted for all their memoranda, they have lifted their dry in here - they are registered in the Minutes - and they have voted for memoranda that the Greek people are still paying for, to say who was the first, who the second, who the third. Mercy! I will speak properly and will speak on the subject we are here today, but I will raise other issues in the time that I am entitled not only by the Rules of Procedure of the House and by the announcement of yours, but also by what I am taking in the calculation of all the information on how much the Prime Minister has spoken about, how much the Chief of Officerial Representation, how much the other parties, in the ratio of course there is in the parliamentary power of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u58	How do you figure out? I admire you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u59	Although today's debate in this House concerns issues of accuracy, since various issues have also been mentioned here in order to make the conflict as a shadow, not to mention the tragedy of the pandemic, a tragedy which not only is being dealt with as you had predicted, but is rekindled with daily records, with intubated, screening of patients, with an immunization programme to cancer. The lies are over. You cannot use as an alibi the unprecedented character of the coronary threat. It's been over twenty months now, there's been experience. But there are also weapons to deal with the pandemic vigorously. What does not exist either in Greece or in any country of the European Union is the political project that will promote the protection of human life, health and not the priorities and interests of the big companies of the drug. And because you do not have such a plan you are resorting to the well-known recipe of individual responsibility, the cover up of government responsibilities, a recipe that has led us to this tragic situation. You continue to use the impasse separation of vaccinated and unvaccinated ones as a convenient alibi, but in order not to support the public health system and not to take the necessary protection measures in critical dispersion sites, such as large workplaces, public transport, schools where vaccinated and invasive ones. And on the occasion of today's debate, we are transferring you the complaint from the work centres of Patras and Amaliada. Currently thousands of people live in terrible conditions in fields and businesses in southern Manola and elsewhere. It is a disgrace, annoying situation that continues with the wild exploitation of land workers. We must now take measures! The vast majority of these people are free of paper, but they are normally working on strawberry, uninsured, without elementary measures of human life, exposed to all kinds of diseases themselves, but also with consequences for the inhabitants of the wider region. They live in turfs of nylon, within mud, mosquitoes, and the responsibility for the outbreak of the pandemic or other diseases in such vulnerable communities are borne solely by the government. They ask themselves to be vaccinated and the state authorities are indifferent. In about seven thousand such earth workers have been vaccinated only about one hundred and fifty, while the rest are spreading that there is supposedly a shortage of vaccines. Send already today mobile health units to examine and inoculate these people. Take measures to create living conditions for all those who make the'red gold' as you call it. All these people are working on food production that is flooding across Europe and the region is a health bomb that is triggered by immunity from business profits, open cover by local authorities, by the government, which is all you care about is how they will ultimately provide cheap work for entrepreneurs. We'll come back to this, we won't leave it like that. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] So while our people need a universal free vaccination programme, a scientifically documented vaccination campaign with exhausting personalised information, prevention, pharmacovigilance, you announced a new lockdown for the invaders. At the same time as it takes a large number of health business units to join a large plan to deal with the pandemic, but also with other health needs that cannot wait, you show your bounty to a few private doctors, who even remove from their primary health care services and force them to work in conditions where experience is required in dealing with complex incidents and adapting to the operating needs of a section or a clinical secondary level. At the time that the public system needs to be strengthened with permanent staff, you, as a government, do not only take the measure of suspension for healthcare, but after three months you have discovered the gaps that this has created in the public health system. Even for public transport, which twenty months later you admitted to be a source of dispersal, instead of announcing a proliferation of routes and recruitment of permanent staff, you announced rolling hours for the public service. And then you wonder where the irrationalism that undermines the vaccination program arises. Well, look in the mirror and there you will see all the irrationalism of your policy that follows a logic: what is of benefit to the economy, to companies and thus prevents a world that could overcome fears, inhibits, hesitations, uncertainties. In the blurred waters of irrationalism that go hand in hand and the contradictions of business interests you are trying to fish for all of you, and you, gentlemen of the government, and you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And as if not all of this were enough, there is the same danger for the next period: today's inconveniences will be added to the increased requirements of the third dose, after the end of the six-month period. This means a million-three thousand-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three thousand-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, sixty-three thousand-three-three-three-three-th-three-three-three, sixty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. And while there are these needs, you have rushed to close large vaccination centres, apart from which the risk of a new mutation always happens because 98% of the poor countries' population remains unvaccinant. You see, the profitability of the vaccine companies that generate 93.6 million per day is incompatible with the vaccination of the peoples of the poorest countries. A beautiful world of moral, angelically made! Your world! That is why we, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do not ask you Ministers and committees for joint acceptance, because our understanding of what is necessary today, our proposal for a health, welfare and prevention system, to be medicines and vaccines really social goods, have nothing in common with your own policy. They don't meet and they can't meet anywhere. Such proposals can be made by SYRIZA, by other parties with whom you probably share common strategies, or by health issues - one after another, you despised the public health system to support the famous "coexistence with the private sector" - either in economic, labour, accuracy. Beyond what we have said in the protology, the convergence, if not your match, has also been seen in today's debate, apart from the cohorts and the 'big words'! We are with the health workers who fight with self-sacrificingness and claim the basics, which no government has even taken care of in the heavy and unhealthy way. We are with teachers fighting against your infamous euphemism, essentially against a school that becomes more unfair, socially unfair, more classic. We are with the distributors of 'e-FOOD'. We are with the port workers and transport workers, who claim their self-evident right to return from their work unharmed and harmless, against the shelves you have all made in the name of the flagship investment, from New Democracy and PASOK to SYRIZA and Mr Varoufakis, who even haunted before because he says, he persuaded the government of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras to proceed with its investment 'COSCO'. And because I have also spoken to Mr Varoufakis to say, by the way, that these are his words. It is not like the known poaching that he has recently made and is using in his speeches and in here, such as that the JRC is supposedly against the European Union because it is being held up. The JRC has been against the European Union since its founding declaration with the Maastricht Treaty because it is a reactionary union of capitalist states. The Greek people cannot worry about who has the upper hand, as Mr Varoufakis is concerned, if the Germans, the French, the Americans, the Chinese, nor are we calling on the people to choose the good or the evil, something Mr Varoufakis wishes to see, which is a dull enemy of German imperialism alone, apparently closing the eye to some other'museums', such as, for example, the American, the British, and saying. The parentheses are closed. And I've been very busy. So I was saying that what the workers won in a number of branches and workplaces did not give them or gave them any government. The governments were barely legislating against them. So let each and every one of us think about what could be prevented or succeeded if these focal points of resistance were multiplyed throughout the country, struggle, if the logic of awarding and salvage solutions were finally defeated. We don't want any more saviors. This is the only way, however, to combat, responsibility and conflict, of course, which can also be accompanied by victories and conquests for the workers and the people. Through this road it will be possible to ripe such a great popular movement capable of overthrowing the current social, economic and political context, in which governments change, the prime ministers are changing, but it does not change who is really in charge. In this case, the JRC testifies all its powers. Although it has this unacceptable picture today, the House, with the passing of hours, has considered it my duty to say these to be recorded in the Minutes of the House, but above all because we consider that this Stepma is primarily directed to the sovereign Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would agree with Mr Koutsouba absolutely because I too am in the unpleasant position to protest against the Bureau of the Greek Parliament on two things: Firstly, on the repeated violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoula, who gave the President of the country the floor to leave in time. For the second time, it's not the first time. To remind him that the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament are not a rubber of the New Democracy so that it can spread it whenever it wants and collect it himself. At some point the President of Parliament must respect his institutional role. Secondly, the institutional inadmissibility and the Prime Minister of the country - civil courtesy the Prime Minister probably had - but also Mr Tsipras, who "have come, I have seen, been absent". That's it. They did their job, they did the controversy and they left. And how many are here today? One Minister, seven MPs from the other parties and eight MPs from our party. So if we do elections, we win the majority directly. We got 51%! It's just a joke. It's okay. I will turn to the Greek people. Today the party leaders came here to do what we say, their party game. They became commentators of the results. Reviewing each other. In fact, they disagreed on one thing about who was the most to blame. They all stirred up in here "The patient, that is, the economy, is deviating, but we're plunging it through loan". So you finished him once again. I have not heard any suggestion for the country to produce wealth. No way. Generally, vaguely unprojected, unprojected. That is why the only solution, the one-way to solve the vital problem of the country that is the economy, but also national and society, is the Greek Solution. There's no other way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We want to help the country. We've got a set-up, a specific program. We can work to find a solution to the problem of the country. Not to work with parties of the system, but to work as a Greek Solution so that the country can be ruled for the first time by a Greek government that does not take orders from any arsenal factor or external factor. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I was amazed, Mr President, to hear that the police were expelled from Marathon - and I apologise, but I will say it - because they were not vaccinated. I didn't know the cops were being prosecuted by the civilians. I didn't know. I imagine if you break into your house, you'll ask for a police officer's vaccination certificate to come and arrest the burglar. This has been heard by you here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u62	The state.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u63	It has been heard from you here that some have kicked out to the Marathon in the tomb. But you did not say that we welcomed this. We shouldn't have mentioned it. It's bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u64	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u65	And in the end, the government had to arrest three thousand people there at the Marathon, because neither measures were observed nor anything, but in any case. The Prime Minister spoke of power discrimination. Mrs Thanou, who was going to enter the Competition Committee, was disturbed because she is a judiciary and cannot be in the Competition Committee. I can hear it, Mr. Georgiadis. I'm serious about that. It is an argument to distinguish powers against the Constitution, because the constitutional legislature wants to distinguish between powers. You didn't do the same with Kutruman, though. What was Kutruman doing in the PSE? What was the judge doing in information and information? Why on one side discrimination of powers, but on the other hand that suits us there is no discrimination of powers? Mr. Koutromanos is well-known to be chosen by the New Democracy, a man of the New Democracy. Are we kidding? Irrespective of whether the conference was held on SYRIZA and specific things were decided on. I really did not understand - so I would say with simple words to understand both our listener and the man who sees us at the moment - the signifying leap of the Prime Minister. What does the stock exchange have to do with PPC's invoice? What does the private person have to do with the bill that the citizen pays to PPC? So if you get a dividend and you go 10 billion euros the value of PPC, will Greek citizens get 9 billion back? Who are you laughing at? Competition you make New Democracy and SYRIZA about who's worse. "Take, take, take" you are, "What you have to do", "send, give, give," like the bazaar, whoever is giving. That's not a government, it doesn't have good administration. The sale of public property is called a sale, not a good administration. So you because you are living with your negative past, both SYRIZA and New Democracy, we tell you that we are living in the future, a future that is prosperous with us. You in the past with your pitiful past and us in the future. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And where I honestly had a shock is when Mr. Tsipras fought Mr. Mitsotakis about who brought the memos. It was incredible what happened. Really unbelievable. He said, "You bring the memorials." I don't know. Something with Alzheimer's, with dementia, with a policy loss, I'm confused too. Can I tell you the truth, ladies? And New Democracy and SYRIZA brought memos. You brought them, and as the other one said, "we've eaten them together." You brought the memorials. Here the KINAL - PASOK is gone, a lifetime is missing. Mr. Tsipras mentioned Lagard with what he said about energy. That list of what happened? All the lists of billionaires were impoverished, other state officials, other ministers, other politicians, what happened? What happened to those lists? It's all gone. And then we wonder why the Greek people in 55% are not going to vote. In the end, it will be elected government with 5%. They're capable of doing that, too. Of course the Prime Minister didn't answer us if he's gonna take a lockdown again. He didn't answer us here, Minister. I directly asked the Prime Minister to commit himself, not you. I do not want the Minister, because Mr Georgiadis and many ministers have been irreversibly exposed to the statements made by the committee, one is deciding, one is not. I want the Prime Minister to tell me. Is he gonna lockdown, yes or no? For the businessman to know what he has to do from now on because of Christmas, I say. Of course, today the Prime Minister was against the lignites. He's a fan of wind turbines. I hear that as a political position. He commanded the lignites to open up because of winter. The government ordered the lignites to work in Greece because of winter. Yes or no? If he can't handle the system, who gave the order? The New Democracy. How's the windmill fan? If you now tell me 'And what to do, to cool the world?', then make gas extraction, normally open the lignites, even do a nuclear plant, start it right now to do business, not half a job. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course the Prime Minister has told us half the truth. I am sorry to say that, gentlemen of the New Democracy - although few - EUR 120 is costing MWh together with the pollutants for lignite. Do you know how much it costs to my fellow citizens New Democracy lies to you now that we're talking about gas? How much do we pay? EUR 240 for MWh. In other words, for the lignites, who are bad, we pay 120 euros together with the fines, but to produce power that is good for the Prime Minister because he is importing gas, we pay 240 euros. Well, half the truths in here are cut, because your lie is enough and your hypocrisy arrives. We're done. He said the Prime Minister - I was disturbed, believe me - as a young Napoleon, that the decision on lignite has no return. I knew in democracy there was a return if the government changed. Now how the Prime Minister thinks he could rule for another fifty years I didn't understand. Unless it means that because the state has continued, as New Democracy did with SYRIZA with the Prespecies Agreement, it tells you whoever follows, because orders are given by Germany, it will follow the continuation of the state, namely the abolition of the lignite. It's a visa, I can hear it. But we are not a New Democracy to say, it keeps the state in the treacherous Prespecies Agreement. We say that any agreements that will be abolished by us, because these agreements are not correct, are unpopular. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And since we are talking about evidence, I will send the Greek Prime Minister the study our team has carried out on the performance of wind parks in Greece. This study proves a lot of things. Hello, Dioscurus. I put it in the Minutes, if the Prime Minister wants to understand the truth that wind parks are a big story. Five leading university professors wrote it, along with our department's director, Mr. Christodoulides, and proves that wind parks are a great scam for the Germans to suck away the south. So that is what the Greek Solution will not allow. They won't play with the Greek property and the Greeks. It's cut. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to our suggestions now. Firstly, if we really want to help the Greek economy with the accuracy, low-priced loans to businesses, not to friends of the few, to businesses. Debt haircut, write off interest. Profit monopolistic companies don't sell, see PPC and water. Finally, this corruption, this rheumatism in our country, is anyone gonna hit it? But how does corruption begin? When we govern and strive for the entire government mechanism with party officials: in the Competition Committee, our own, in the EPP, our own, in our own independent authorities, in justice. That's how the government corrupts all the tiles at all levels. So, in order to fight corruption, the Greek people must strike New Democracy in the next elections, otherwise corruption will continue. Fourthly, the risk of bankruptcy of all companies in the next month or the next two months. I warn the government, I invite her, and the Prime Minister himself, to announce whether she'll make a lockdown, tell us. Because I have just learned that Germany has also decided to take a lockdown. And because the ears of the New Democracy are very close to the ears and mouths of Germany, they do not listen to the command and execute the order, because it will perform eight hundred thousand workers, who work hard and hard, either in the focus or elsewhere. Five, what do we say? Yes to the patriotism of the economy. Who's that? The protectionism of Greek products. Only in this way can the Greek economy be saved, with motive, with benefits, with control of this kind, here. It's important to us. Scaramaga Shipyard, ‘LARCO’, relocation, mining, mining and shipbuilding. EPA, “ELVO”, the head of the spear with the NSAs, to produce our own products and constantly invest, bring currency. For example, LARCO, which is extinguishing, my dear Minister, I do not know if you know - ferro-nickel. Of this is produced cobalt. Only two mines in Europe have this possibility, one in Finland and the other in Greece, and you go and sell it against a lentil board. From the cobalt you can make car batteries, which is your Prime Minister's fan who wants to make our cars electrically. Ninth, banning the rule of relying on tourism. No business is done without connection to the primary sector and protection of our own products in hotels. All these are our proposals, how the climate will really be reversed from now on. There's a solution. First, stop triangular transactions mainly of foreign companies, such as the so-called 'LIDL'. Pause of triangular transactions, Minister, you are here, between France and Italy - Greece, with triangular transactions. Secondly, not middlemen in wholesale. This is evidence of price accuracy, because wholesalers are dealing with the farmer's and the farmer's livelihoods. Thirdly, a reduction in excise duty on heating and driving oil. Fourthly, a reduction in VAT on first-hand goods. Fifthly - this is where it wants greek guts - extraction of natural gas, lignite, energy and setting the basis for nuclear energy to be self-sufficient, which means a very simple steam engine! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We are also proposing - and the Minister of Finance has left - that there should not be a loss of regulation when the debtor creates a new debt, but that it should be independent of the regulated debt. Because now the market still doesn't work, it's cancer. He had a debt, he adjusted it, another debt comes out and all the debts are shutting him down. It's a mistake, it's a trap for the economy. May a property be transferred, if it is the first residence of the child, and the property continues to have the burdens, but the father, mother, grandfather, grandma can transfer it. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I will say it with two or three proposals. There is no national sovereignty without economic independence, self-sufficiency and adequacy of goods! Understood. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The more you borrow, the more you lose national sovereignty. So let's talk with the language of truth. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is really the democracy that has neither too many rich nor too many poor. What you do is make your own rich many and the poor make them thousands, starve, the middle class. So you're not even excellent at your democracy either, but in the end you won't be good at it. You're going to leave tonight! And I'm afraid I don't know if there's gonna be helicopters, so we'll know what we're talking about. In the end you will make, gentlemen of the New Democracy, like Maria Antoinette, when the people were hungry and there was no bread. Now when the people don't have bread and electricity, you'll say, "But why don't they eat wind turbines? Why do they not eat what we give them? Why don't they eat, I know, photovoltaics?' No photovoltaics are eaten, no wind turbines are eaten. Don't be Maria Antoinette. Become Greek governors, who look at the Greek. We won't leave you! In four years' time, we will demolish the false arguments, a four-year period for Greece and the Greeks, with dignity, pride, wages, the worker and the poor citizen, to give the Greek bread because he deserves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos. We will conclude today's pre-dated debate with the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister questioned my question of ELSTAT's statistics. I would like to address the Members and Members of Parliament of the New Democracy and the Ministers. Do you really think that the average value, the price, of the basket of consumers in food has risen by 0.9%, below 1%, do you believe that? Do you believe what ELSTAT says? Tell me. Do you really think that in 2001, Minister, the rise in inflation, when we went from the drachma to the euro, was 0,2%? Because that's what ELSTAT said today. The Prime Minister even challenged me and said to me "If you don't believe EUROSTAT...", which of course takes its elements from ELSTAT, so, he puts them on a stack and reproduces them. What the Prime Minister showed was ELSTAT's data through the EUROSTAT site. It is true that EUROSTAT cannot have its own statistics for Greece, but it receives the Greek Statistical Office. So the Prime Minister told me: 'If you are questioning the facts, he sent a letter to EUROSTAT'. She didn't tell me? Yes, but I've caught up with him, and I've done it in 2005, with two of my dear colleagues, whom you know very well. I don't deserve to say who they were. We wrote a joint letter to EUROSTAT, which we denounced the Government of New Democracy at the time, that they had done 'grek statistics' with the costs of the health system. The answer I received - something that is well known, of course, after that we were right, and I still have the answer of EUROSTAT - after two months, it was that we checked it and no problem, the data of the Greek Statistical Office are fine. Some years later Europeans themselves, EUROSTAT itself denounced the Greek State for 'grek statistics'. So don't challenge me to write to EUROSTAT. We've seen this project before. Look, let's talk a little bit scientific. There's a huge difference in measuring the temperature from measuring inflation. There are no two meteorologists who disagree about how to measure the temperature. There are some who disagree about their models, about predicting temperature and weather, but about measuring they don't disagree. By measuring in the field of society, the market and humanity this is not the case. And I will give you an example. You know that anecdotes: Latsis or Vardinoyannis or Marinakis in a bar and on average, all of them become millionaires. You know that. You know what else is going on? On average, everyone's inflation becomes negative. Because if you're rich, at a time when interest rates go to zero and below and your housing costs, most of them costs, you finance them at negative interest rates, then you have negative inflation. And when the Greek statistical service or EUROSTAT weighs your basket with mine, with Marinakis, with Jeff Bezos, because Bezos is much bigger than ours, it is his inflation that counts on average. So don't make the mistake. Average inflation is not the inflation of the middle Greek and middle Greek. Let's get this straight. He's classic. So far I have been ready to accuse your party and your Government, New Democracy, that the New Democracy is promoting the new 'grek statistics', which is true. But unfortunately I have heard your President, the President of SYRIZA, saying that he does not question the reliability of ELSTAT's data. Really? SYRIZA's world, do you, do you agree with that? Do you agree that ELSTAT's elements are those? You agree on unemployment, don't you? That the OAS-written, which are more than twice as much as that of ELSTAT's official unemployment, are not unemployed? Is that what SYRIZA's world think? Well, Mr. Tsipras, it is well known that he needs to be identified with the New Democracy. Do you from SYRIZA agree with your president? It can't be. I know very well the relationship you have with anthropologically in your DNA, aesthetically, with this evaporation called ELSTAT. We are now going to another phrase by the Prime Minister, which has given me a great deal of impression, and we also have the Minister in charge. ‘Investment site’. I want to ask the Minister, the Prime Minister: when he comes from Delaware, a company that no one knows who's behind and founds a fund, a predator fund and buys red loans, is that an investment? Is that a productive investment? I'm asking you. Tell us. Because it's not for us. It's a disinvestment, it's a disaster. He destroys a piece of the property of the Greek people because, when he kills in the auction, in the hammer a real estate, he'll put it not in Delaware, but in the Cayman Islands and you know that. I put a question to Mr Stavoura, who is not here - he was here - but we will find out, because the budget comes short psalms. Tell me: Will the thirteen-year-old investment end? Let's see. The budget's coming, you'll tell us. Unfortunately, he is not the President of Parliament, because he said something that I cannot comment on. First of all, I thank him very much, because he said that the only mistake I made in my prototype was that I gave PPC to Constantine Karamanlis when I had to do it to Plastira. So the President of Parliament was in agreement with everything else I said, I imagine! I'm kidding! Mr. Tasoula, I don't know if you hear me somewhere through the closed circuit through the Parliament channel. Constantine Karamanlis is responsible for PPC. Yes, PPC was founded on paper on Plastia, but in 1956, on EPE, on Constantine Karamanlis was forced to acquire all private electricity companies. There he is, Mr. Tsouulas! Without Constantine Karamanlis there would be no public electricity company. You're the ones who are airborne! Hi, I'm glad to meet you. No caramanlic on this New Democracy party left? You are beginning to remember PASOK, almost ashamed of their founder, Andreas Papandreou! But let us come to the point. Mr. Mitsotakis, perhaps by mistake, perhaps by mistake, perhaps by honesty, he said the most important thing about PPC and I have recorded it verbatim. He said: "We will move, so that there will be greater values for the shareholders." If that's possible! Do you have a Prime Minister who admits that an enterprise has a marginal cost above average costs, which is what it means? It means that, when the price is equal to the marginal cost, there is by definition a return on the company. This return is the reason why the foreign player of the stock exchanges, the markets, comes to buy PPC, which means that it is subsidised by the Greek State, by the Greek consumer. And what does the Prime Minister say? Greater values for shareholders. I have a question for SYRIZA right now: ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I am not asking Mr Tsipras, because I know the answer. I ask the world and Members of SYRIZA: How do you mean the progressive rule regarding PPC? I heard Mr. Tsipras and your other speakers be against PPC's privatisation. Will the progressive governance for which you are tired renationalize PPC? One is the question and I want a specific answer: yes or no. There's no third one. Second question: Will you abolish tariffs on the basis of marginal costs, which leads to the income of those who buy or who can and may not buy the production units, which are cheaper in terms of electricity production costs? They're two basic questions. Without this, I will say that the people as a whole will understand your idea of progressive rule as a leaser for sharing chairs and ministerial cars, which we are not interested in. Friends of the JRC, Mr. Koutsubas made a report. In the context of love and fellowship I will respond with love and fellowship. We do not choose between imperialism. You choose. You choose to keep talking about the American and not the German. We do not make any distinctions at all. All imperialisms are enemies of all peoples. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And we don't have to give credentials to anyone. Mera25 is the only party and DiEM25 is the pan-European movement, with which we have taken the lead for Julian Assange. Julian Assange is our member. We know what the day-to-day fight means against imperialism. We know what imperialism means that kills our partner's body and soul right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u68	And we thank Mr. Varoufakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the pre-dated order under Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, which was held at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on the crisis of accuracy and the absence of political will on the part of the Government to protect households and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S2-commons.u69	With the consent of the House, 17.46 minutes will be held for Monday, 22 November 2021, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
