ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin with the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Friday 12 March 2021, which reads as follows: Time of the Prime Minister (Article 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 544/9/8-32021 by the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Alexis Tsipras to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "Previous police violence against citizens on the pretext of respecting health measures which the Prime Minister and government officials are constantly violating". A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 514/3-2021 by Mr Ioannis Lambropoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on 'Forest Maps'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 519/5-3-2021 by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Re-start of the procedure and re-applying for the position of President of the Supervisory Board of the National Medical Helped Reproduction Authority". 3. The Question No 513/2-3-2021 by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Payment of allowances to Halkidiki enterprises affected by the theory of July 10, 2019”. 4. The question by No 530/8-32021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Professional Schools of the Labour Force Agency (OAED)". 5. The Question No 515/4-3-2021 by the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Exclusion from regulation of a hundred twenty-dollars for debts to local government (OTA)'. 6. The 512/1-3-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Athens Hospital, Heidari. The saturation of the ITH now excludes patients from rescue.’ B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 517/4-3-2021 by Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, by Mr Athanasiou, Vice-President of Parliament, on the subject: "Questions that arise in the Lesvos Law and not just from the suspension of forest maps". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 520/5-3-2021 the current question by MP Rodopi of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Haritou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Supporting tobacco cultivation in Thrace due to the pandemic and low prices". 3. The Question No 516/4-32021 by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr Apostolos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of a New Triglia dam". 4. The Question No 531/8-32021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The problems of earthquakes plunged into the Regional Unity (IP) Larissa and Regional Unity (IP) Trikalons". 5. The Question No 518/4-3-2021 by Mr Constantine Bouba, Member of the Greek Parliament, on the subject: "A huge amount of potatoes available in Upper Brodou Serres". 6. Under No 526-3-2021, a topical question from Mr. Athens, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Theodoros Livanios, on the subject: "Serious issues about radio stations and the exercise of the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council (ESP)". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 521/5-3-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Critical problems ahead of the start of applications for debt adjustment to the local government (OTA) First Grade". 8. The question by No 523/7-3-2021 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Degrade the penitentiary staff and the External Guard of the Booking Stores - Risk for the smooth functioning of the services and the need for immediate assistance". 9. The Question No 533/8-32021 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on "Support measures for diplomat guides". 10. The question under number 527/8-32021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Describe or rent the old train station of the Greek Railway Agency (OSE) in the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou". 11. The Question No 532/8-32021 by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Fighting the phenomenon of desertification and its consequences". 12. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'An unjustified delay in applying Law 4670/2020 for the over thirty years of pensioners' insurance'. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question raised by Mr Diamantos Manolakos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "The need to support the growers of wine grapes and small and cooperative wineries affected by the consequences of the pandemic." 14. Observed. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Exclusion of adults from special treatments'. 15. The Question No 536/8-32021 by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "It is a question of adequate protection for prisoners and prisoners of the country". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The Question No 535/8-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The necessary water management projects in the Prefecture of Chania". 17. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Arsenis for his excellent report. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Standardisation of enterprises in the New Carval Fertilizer factory as co-responsible". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 3669-29-1-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Programming vaccination against COVID -19 in the four prefectures of Crete". 3. The question by No 3697/29-1-2021 question by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Sultana (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Consumer use of fixed-term contracts (Article 8(3) n.2112/1920 - protection against abuse resulting from unjustified -unobjective reason - use of fixed-term contracts) by the Kavala Fertilizer factory". 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled "Addressing problems caused in the Community by Archangelou of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas from the construction of the new motorway for the airport". 5. The question asked by SYRIZA MP Evangelos Apostolos at 3604/27-1-2021 - Evangelos Apostolos's Progressive Alliance to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Chalkida Hospital faces a huge problem of staffing in medical and nursing staff". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that on Friday, March 12, 2021, there will be Prime Minister Time in accordance with Rule 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure, which will be a timely question from Mr Alexis Tsipras to the Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the topical and urgent debate. On the basis of the document sent by the Secretary of the Ministerial Council, only one timely question will be discussed which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. It will therefore be discussed the first under number 529/8-32021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Borough to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Direct risk of shrinking and eventually abolishing the university departments of the Ietokarnania Prefecture. Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Undersecretary, perhaps because you're an academic to keep in mind the adventure, the suffering, I'd say, of the University Departments in Ieto-Carnania. You will remember that the founding - and it worked - of the Autonomous University of Western Greece. One night Mr Arvanitopoulos comes dark and takes out not from the head of Zeus, from his head, or I don't know from whom the project "ATHENA", which abolishes the autonomy of the university, abolishes the university, i.e. he leaves some sections, whose adventure had just begun: a huge dolcystinda with the University of Patras, which wanted the departments in Patras. We said that if the University of Patras doesn't want them, there are other solutions. In any case, we have come up with the Gavroglou Act establishing a rural school, which is linked to the needs of production, economics, social, if you like, the region. You could come and tell us: "You know, this law is an improvement. We want, for example, the re-establishment of the environmental section and new technologies that are calling for below." Or say to us: 'We want an autonomous university, as demanded by self-government, but also by MPs'. I should like to point out that these Members had then voted in favour of Mr Arvanitopoulos's decision. But you come and introduce the minimum basis, knowing that in this way the university departments in Aetolocarnania will stay without students. Is that what you want? Say it clean. Don't you want regional top institutions? Say it clean. A death is not going to occur, an execution of some parts as natural death. The University of Patras is now coming with a strategic planning plan, which will result from the four departments of the universities in Agrinio to stay one more and one, says, in 2023-2024, in those bells, and three - different parts - of course - in Messolong. So say it clearly, because here we have a theater of irrationality. Mr Lebanese is coming and he says 'I want these, these and these university departments'. They say self-government factors that are related to the New Democracy "I want this university" and you come and lead the university to death. Please answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u5	My dear colleague, first of all I must say that I am pleased to see you. I haven't seen you in a while. As to the subject you raise, the overall proposal for the strategic planning of the University of Patras has not at present come to us officially. But we know her, we've read her, she's been published in the press. The proposal has been prepared and presented before the adoption of the minimum import base by law. So it's not related to each other. There is an unsolved reality. I also spoke to a previous question tabled last week. I'm sure you'll understand. We have a terrible problem of infertility in the country. Subnatality hits our universities. In 2000 - twenty-one years ago - we had a hundred sixty-five thousand candidates. This year we estimate that we will have about 100 thousand candidates. The positions in 2000 and today are the same. We estimate that in 2028-2029 we will have eighty-five to eighty-seven thousand candidates for seventy-five thousand posts. What does that mean, my dear fellow Member? It means that those who finish school will go to college. In other words, we have built a country that has a one-way university, and the subnatality is declining the learning level of those who are studying at universities, because you have another seventy-five thousand of them to choose from sixty-three thousand and have another seventy-five thousand people to choose. This has resulted in few more high-level candidates for such sections. So these parts you mentioned have a very low import base. The very low import base leads to the fact that they are not able to attend, and that is why they have a very low graduation rate. The graduation of these departments is extremely low. In particular, in this particular matter, although I will come back to my dentistry and say more about this matter at the University of Patras, what we need to have as a big picture is that I see a proposal which tries to keep parts of time that will survive. However, I shall return to my dentext to explain how I understand the points of the proposal which, I repeat, we have not yet received.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u7	Mr Secretary, first of all I wish you every success, despite the fact - and I am sorry to say it - that you have perhaps not, on your own responsibility, found a situation and I do not see you question it. And allow me, Minister, to say that what you said - I am sad to say - sounded not only in my ears, but also in the ears of the citizens of Etolokarnamia as a memorial to the departments. I'm telling you, honestly. Do you do a memorial? Why am I saying that? You are talking about fertility and you say that the proposal of the University of Patras was formulated before the decision on the minimum basis. I'll accept that. But what is the consequence? You come on the minimum basis and you exacerbate the adverse effects of infertileness. In other words, you come and make subgenicity on the square in terms of the consequences and, indeed, with a hesitation. Where to find the courage here, say "You know, yes, this is the proposal of the University of Patras and wants to strengthen the future of the departments". That is not the case, Minister. Unfortunately, I conclude from your answer that you are coming to put not a small stone, but a large stone on the burial, the burial, certainly, that leads protagonists to the burial of the departments. Have you considered the consequences? You're talking about high-level students. Can I ask you something, Minister? In the private IEK, which you are equating to the state universities, are everyone who is high-level or high-income or, in any case, tolerant of these income requirements? So, unfortunately, you are coming today, I repeat, to seal a course of disastrousness, extinction, and finally, to neutralize the university departments in Iato-Carnania, which was launched by Mr Arvanitopoulou's flawless commemoration of "ATHENA" commemoration and ending up where you, Minister, obviously, do not want regional higher education. You don't want her. But can I tell you something? Apart from the fact that you should say this in an election, you should say in front of the people not only of Aetolocarnania but also in regions with regional divisions, explain why you are driving them there, and indeed, at a time when the synergy between universities in different countries prevails, not between university departments in the same region. This is the global trend and you are in opposition to this trend and to the good practices in force in other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u8	Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. colleague, in the Region of Western Greece, at the University of Patras we currently have six sections related to Georgia. We have a Department of Animal Production and Aquaculture in Messolong, Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering again in the Messolong, Food Technology and Agricultural Biotechnology in Agrinio, Plant Production in Mesolong and Agriculture in Amaliada. They are the agricultural departments of the University of Patras. One region, therefore, has six hundred and fifty thousand people. Excess is typical. There is no world to be able to study in all these departments. One of those sections in Agrinio is on parole. What is happening here is that there is a proposal that reconstitutes the sections. From what I've read, there'll be two sections in the Messolong, fishing and aquaculture, which is logical because of the lagoon, and agronomy, which is also logical because it has a very large farm of eight hundred acres of the university there. And there will be two portions of food and technology food and rural and environmental resources in Agrinio. These sections, like they're made, I see they have time perspective. What does that mean? No one wants departments that won't have students or have students who will never end and in the end will not be watched. So the proposal that I see is being put forward seems to be in time. When we get here, we'll discuss with the University of Patras some details. Now let me say something broader about Iato-Carnania. It's mostly a rural county. Commenting on Elijah: We will look carefully at what is happening with Amaliada, because it is also a rural area. On the issue of Aetolokarnania, it is true that they are one of the most agricultural prefectures in the country. A large part of agricultural production comes out of there. Therefore, parts of agriculture are needed. There is no need, however, for many parts of agriculture. It takes parts that can withstand time. You referred to the IEK beforehand. IEKs do not give university-level qualifications. We are trying to make the IEKs equal to the universities in the rhetoric I hear. There is no link between the title given by IEK and the title given by a university. And one last question. You're a practical man. Does Greece need people who are scientists, and do it also need, next to the scientists and people who know, have special, specialized knowledge, so that they can work the garden, work the field, engage in livestock farming? We need both. The Gabroglou reform that he did was that he made a huge head of science without hands underneath. There are no more, as we have created our system, specialized people who can work under the direction of scientists. We're all scientists. We have twenty-three sections of aggression or related in the country. Twenty-three sections! We have reached a point, if all of them were to end every year, in ten years we have more geoponders than young farmers. It's a reality, unfortunately, these things. We must have a sense of our population. We must have a sense of our needs. We can't make a huge scientific head and have no hands underneath it. Who will apply all these things? We are following the issue of the Aetolokarana prefecture with great care. I repeat that, as I see the proposal, which has not yet come to us officially, seems to be based on time. The current situation in a short time will have serious problems in one or two years because it will not have students to attend. And I believe that, with the help of the local authorities and Members of Parliament in the region, we will also be able to build at the University of Patras, in the Prefecture of Aetolokaranna, parts of which we can also say in ten, fifteen, twenty years' time that we are proud to say that they are bringing people who are able to guide farmers into agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed and we will shortly be on the agenda for legislative work. At this point we will have five minutes to interrupt so that all the actors - government, rapporteurs, parliamentarians - can get together. The time is 10.15 ́. Please the Secretariats of the Parliamentary Groups to inform those within Parliament to come at 10.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House under No 1782 of 9-3-2021 a proposal tabled by thirty Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination against the former Minister of State from 23-9-2015 to 5-11-2016 and subsequently Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information up to 9-7-2019 Nicholas Pappas, in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on ‘Privacy of Ministers’, as applicable, concerning the investigation of any offences committed in the performance of his duties. The proposal, which will be printed, will be distributed to Members, will be placed on a special agenda, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Greece in motion: Sustainable Urban Mobility - Micromobility - Arrangements for modernisation, simplification and digitisation of procedures of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 March 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and two twelve-member speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the JRC, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. With a teleconferencing service, Webex platform, it is also proposed two dozen-speaking speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. As you all know under the Rules of Procedure, no addition is now permitted. Does the House agree on the basic procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u13	So the House unanimously agreed and we can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u15	What is the point of the procedure? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u16	The procedure is seen as a process, Mr President, and the correlation between this step and all the issues that have come very strongly to the top of the agenda with the position that we have to take as Parliamentary groups for the events that are taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u17	Therefore, when the time comes for your speech, you can place yourself. As the Bureau, we will show a tolerance for those who want to talk about it and I will give you two, three minutes in addition to your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u18	Do you think it's not right? I would like to ask you, because I know that I do not have the institutional capacity to ask for the floor as rapporteur. I think it is good that at the start of the meeting each of us should give the signal to a national need to avoid the worst from what is happening out there. I think it is the natural step of a short political position by all, and I put it as a proposal. It's better to do it before we get into the bill discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u19	Avoidance for the worst does not prevent you from being placed when you make your suggestion. The substance won't change. However, if I have a unanimous decision on an incidental issue of topicality from all the parties, then I will give three minutes in reverse even once and, of course, if the government wants to respond to the end. Do we all agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u20	Well, good, then. You've got three minutes each. We're starting with Mera25. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously I must refer to Mr Mitsotakis' statement yesterday. We had an unpleasant event. A police officer was hit. First of all, we wish him human. Be strong. But Mr. Mitsotakis came out to make a dictionary on the day that a police officer was hit and did not come out to speak in elementary terms for so many days that there is such an extreme police force. I would remind you of the statements made by Mr Alivizatou that the committee of inquiry of police violence was dismantled after the incidents, the attack on the Indian family, because there was no mood from the political leadership for the investigation to continue. He said there's no mood from the government. Mr. Alivizatos said so. This results from the fate of his report. The Committee's report examined thirty cases of police violence and resulted in specific points and things to be done. This basic thing to be done is to stop impunity. As the Alivizatos report says, which, after six months of delay, Mr Chrysochoidis has submitted to us in the House, we have a phenomenon which exists elsewhere - police violence - and a phenomenon that does not exist anywhere, its impunity. This is only a Greek phenomenon. That's what we're experiencing, and that's why Mr. Mitsotakis didn't have a word to say in his report. The invoking by Mr Mitsotakis of national unity and the fact that he himself brings national unity and against dissatisfaction was really funny. The government that locks people in the house, forbids protests, and when this is done, brings the bills that will bring the greatest social unrest, not only unity does not bring, not only homogeneity and unity, but it really is like wanting to sow chaos. We call on the government to change course. We call on the government to stop the double game of repression, against the core of the family. And I'm not just talking about what happened in New Smyrna. The beating of the Kathi family in Sepolis, with the girl, Lydia Kathy, to beat her up and excite her sexically in front of her father who had a heart attack in front of her eyes. In the case of the five-year-old man who got hit with a police team in Galachi. Indar and so many more. This attack can't go on with the family. Not only can this intimidation plan continue so that there are no responses to these shocking measures brought by the government, but also to the fifth pre-pillar memorandum. Change course. Stop it. Get an order against the violence in total. But stop this repression, the intimidation of families. You are making superstitious intimidation so that people don't even think about reacting and reacting. And that's really a bomb on the foundations of our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u22	The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Hetas, has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, thank you very much. Unfortunately, hypocrisy once more goes on in here. You know, it's at least challenging to ask parties to give each other their mark in here. So, you don't realize that your stigma is being given to it every day? You give it every day. You gave it yesterday, you have given it a long time ago, and there are parties that applaud the demonstrations, they welcome all these issues, violence, etc. Listen a little. We, Mr President, will begin by expressing our disappointment at the murderous attack on the police yesterday in the first phase. Yesterday, the angel, a young police officer, really escaped a miracle. However, Mr President, we will do something else. We are not netting out violence. There's no good and bad violence, gentlemen! You are talking about the violence of police officers against citizens, but you are not saying whether the other violence, that of citizens against policemen, is good or bad. There is no good and bad violence, Mr President. We condemn the violence from wherever it comes. Clearly, we are not in favour of violence, nor are we taking part in 'games' of micro-groups, political and voters of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, because both parties are responsible for the national division. We are talking about a national division that will be fatal. It is not the time when Greek citizens are locked up in their homes, poor and jobless, we take the world out of protests every day and SYRIZA welcomes the demonstrations, according to Mr Tsipras and the Government, according to Mrs Peloni, say that the demonstrations are not forbidden. But the Greeks are locked in his house and he will eat a fine of 300 euros if he ends for half a minute or for five minutes his exit from the house. What's that? Tell the Greek people what this is! And you have the courage to come in here today to talk about what you are moving. Because all this is the result of your own moves, your own governance and your attitude as Opposition. I don't care and we don't care if you think you're at 3% or whatever you think. Do what you want. And now I'm talking to SYRIZA. But the same applies to the New Democracy. You're voting for laws. Mr President, this is where the laws come to life, such as forbidden protests, to be up to fifty people, not to apply university asylum, while the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki has been in possession for 15 days, with the result that the forty-five thousand students are deprived of their right to visit the university. What is the state of 'black', of 'bulk', and of not being able to impose the order? Here is the inability of the New Democracy to implement the law and enforce the order. That's the situation. We are not going to be involved in this, and we have a clear view. We condemn the violence from wherever it comes and demand respect for the Greek citizen, who is currently spending everything. Stop, look Greeks in the eyes and behave accordingly and with the political stature that is worthy of this Greek people, to Greek citizens. Leave the theatrical and ethnic divisions. They're not times for national division. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are very afraid, Mr President, for the next few days and we are concerned about it. We call on SYRIZA to stand up to the circumstances, but above all for the government to be able to enforce order. That's not a situation out there. However, we will also see you then of today's debate with great interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Heta. From the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Behind the escalation of state repression and police rule is the escalation of the anti-population government's policy on labour, education and education. And this is not only a feature of today's government, but a timeless feature of all governments, that anti-grass policy goes hand in hand with violence and repression. From this point of view, organised indiscipline must be the response to state repression, but also to employers' repression. Whatever the government and the various media do, there will not be the slogan of the People's Movement and of its struggle to be responsible for the dispersion of the pandemic. Whatever you do, you will not cover up the huge government responsibilities that exist to excite the pandemic, that you have not shielded the public health system, that there is a crowded mass transport system and that the large workplaces are the nuclei of spreading pandemic. The unacceptable, which we are stressing, injury yesterday by the police cannot acquittal the government's choice of the climate of police rule, which had been unfolded in the past days and last night, gave its change after the march in the Nea Smyrna neighborhoods and alleys. With such events, like yesterday, you cannot tarnish popular mobilisation. It must not hide the scene that the government set up yesterday with suspicious mechanisms and a group of provocators for the incidents that took place in New Smyrna. And of course we say clearly that no matter what you do, no matter how much you use suspicious mechanisms to slander the movement and impose the logic of 'law and order', that will not be the case, because the struggle of the people, the organized indiscipline will ruin your plans. The popular and neo-liberal movement won't get into the plaster. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u26	Me too, Mr. Karathanasopou. From the Movement of Change, Mr. Michael Katrinis has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, in the last ten days, the country has been living an incredible scene of tension. Top of the iceberg were the two incidents that brought together most publicity. One was the unjustified police violence on Sunday, which really caused a massive wave of reactions across society and all, with the exception of a few exceptions, the wings of the Parliament and of the political spectrum, and of course the other was the murderous attack by the police yesterday by the "familiar" police, the "bugs" who always find a magical way to infiltrate demonstrations. In this situation, Mr President, there are responsible. It's not a situation that happens alone or automatically. We and from this step last week, as well as from the outside Parliament, warned both the government and the Civicism, because they turned a case into a case for which justice had to be dealt with in a political controversy and why they brought this conflict into the House, rejuvenating and triggering this whole climate. And of course, once the restrictive measures have failed in common, we have led to Sunday's situation, but also yesterday's incredible incidents. On the one hand, the Prime Minister is proclaiming, "they wash his hands" on violence and they suddenly run to call Mr. Alvizato to see the agenda for combating police arbitrary phenomena, but his executives are ruthlessly triggering this climate and throwing oil into the fire and on the other hand, SYRIZA participates in this game, SYRIZA who in 2011 did not understand what was going on with the golden people in the "top square" and what was hatched then. Now, in this climate doesn't he understand the danger of getting away from the situation and leading to tents of tension? No one can say no longer that he does not understand what this continuation of the divisive climate, which has two responsibility, the government on the one hand and the Civic Opposition on the other. We, Mr President, will no longer call for tons to fall, because I fear that this is part of a comprehensive plan for both parties. However, we put them before their responsibilities, not only us, but the vast majority of democratic citizens, in order not to divert the situation in a country that is immersing health, economic and, unfortunately, socially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u28	The rapporteur of the bill, Christos Giannoulis, will speak from the Qualified Opposition. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. We have made this request from the outset, this request not to talk to our party audience, nor to add points to our population performance, nor to serve the logic of equal distances. Clear words: it is absolute and unequivocal that the condemnation of the murderous attack on the injured police officer who is being hospitalized is absolute and unequivocal. It is absolute support for the majority of Greek police and honest officers. It is quite clear that our opposition to the excessive use of force, to the abuse of violence followed by the minority, but there is, of the police force. At the moment, as I said, it is not a question of talking about our party audience. Right now we want to speak clean words. Violence produces violence. Is the argument and is it directly expressed by the Mitsotakis Government that SYRIZA provides political support for terrorism and professional provocators, who find the opportunity for popular indignation or popular reaction to turn it into a battlefield? Clear words, clear explanations. Anyone who uses the old recipe that wants to divide between the left and the households, people who defend the class and people who want to destroy democracy shaves old wounds that we paid them too expensively. I'm making another appeal. To stop - I speak of a minority of policemen - with orders from Chrysochoidis or business leaders, the raids of violence, revenge and revancedness by policemen entering stores in Nea Izmir, slapping women on the street, swearing young children and not honoring the service and constitutional cheque of the Greek Police. On these benches, Mr President, and I address it to Mr Mitsotakis and to those who are here, there are some whose white hair has not arisen sharply and without effort and blood, they are from struggles for democracy. I'm not talking about myself, I'm not talking about younger people. It's the model of the Left Party and the progressive party that doesn't go to make stunning votes with equal distances and say that SYRIZA is to blame for everything or that SYRIZA is to blame for the government. These games have worked, and we have to defend them. I would also like to say that a very important role to unite would have instead of the proclamation that Mr Mitsotakis has to demand and a national unity - because you know unity is inspiring, not being ordered, it is not a business centre that you are now being forced to join - it must inspire citizens. And that's not what you're doing with the division to show that it's their fault and you're being poorly accountable. We all need to make it clear that we need to find a common place in a country that is tested sanitaryly and economically. I conclude by saying that this common place would be to upgrade the way in which Parliament is to be legislated. Every piece of legislation that comes here, they want, they don't want anyone, it's a spark. In these sparks we have to shut them down from parliament to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u30	We will close with the representative from New Democracy and then take the floor, as he informed me, on behalf of the government, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr. Maximos Sedetakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, in fact in the past few days we have seen images that do not seek honor from anyone. We have seen images showing a murderous type of attack on a police officer, in which we all wish to see it through. We have also seen images of police violence, which we do not want to see repeated. I, from this step forward, appeal to all parties and citizens to wake us up and make us all behave responsibly, to stop with our actions and to disperse the hatred and division that causes the wrath of the citizens. Unfortunately, the pandemic has created unprecedented conditions in society, conditions of movement limitation, and in order to come back, it needs coolness and above all it needs unity. And unity, ladies and gentlemen, is not achieved by "we did this", "we did the other." Unity is achieved when we all make our self-criticism and see how we can contribute to it. We as a party guarantee unity and we will do what is needed. I hope that all of you will do what it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Step of the committee the other day you remember that I made a clear condemnation of violence wherever it comes from. And I am glad that today I have heard all the political forces actually say that there is no good violence and there is no bad violence. As we condemned the incident, which is being investigated, beating a citizen of Sunday by a police officer, so we must unanimously condemn the really murderous attack that a young worker, a police officer from a group of hoodiers, took yesterday. However, we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that unfortunately yesterday's events were like a prophecy, which was almost predetermined because it did not happen in a political vacuum. You remember, unfortunately, statements by parties that, in fact, were paving the way for this, I would not say clearly, movement, but unfortunately, the climate that has been sparked off. Do not forget that yesterday's gathering took place following a decision by both SYRIZA youth, PAME, the "Rubicon" and other reasonings. It was therefore clear that more measures should be taken to prevent these issues. Do not forget that SYRIZA and AUGY released a take news video on Panormos traffic lights, which came out after the car owner and said that the damage to his car was in an earlier time and I have not yet seen anyone from SYRIZA say: "Yes, we were wrong." Are you adopting this video? Do you approve what "SYNEI" wrote that the damage was done by police officers? I have not seen anyone from SYRIZA until now say: 'Yes, we made a mistake'. Ladies and gentlemen, the mistake in politics is part of the programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u34	Minister, so many videos did you find the light? The other one slaps the woman.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u35	Please, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u36	He's asking us, Mr. President. It's addressed to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u37	He doesn't ask you. He's talking and asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Giannoulis, I have not interrupted you. I am speaking politically, Mr Giannoulis, not personally. When you get the floor, you'll answer me. However, we must at some point in this Chamber admit and say that we must all follow them. We should not divide the Greek people. We cannot go back to the division of the Greek society in the memorial, antimony, to the newly indignant, to undignified ones. Everyone in this difficult period that the world is going through, especially in the midst of a pandemic, to pass a clear message. And to close, Mr President, because I also want to enter the bill, this government has done specific things in terms of combating arbitraryness even in the Security Body. I would remind you that this government's decision was the establishment of the Alibizatou Committee in November 2019. I would remind you that seven of the nine proposals made by this committee were adopted by the government. Yesterday, the Prime Minister met with Mr Alvizato on these issues. I would also remind you that the Citizens' Counselor is a national mechanism now anyone who can investigate these issues too. In any case, we are open to proposals in order to see how such phenomena can be even security bodies, and I, too, agree that arbitrary issues can be struck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u39	I have two communications to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Greece in motion: Sustainable Urban Mobility - Micromobility - Arrangements for modernisation, simplification and digitisation of procedures of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". The Minister of Justice, the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, the Protection of Citizens, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Interior, Migration and Asylum, and the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs submitted a draft law on 9-32021: ‘Application of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Prosecutor, arrangements for the functioning of the courts and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’. They shall be referred to the relevant committees. The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Maximos Sedetakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the political substance of the bill that we shall be voting on is contained in the title: 'Greece in motion'. The question is what kind of move do we want, upward or downward? Obviously, the government's compass shows upwards, movement towards progress, movement towards the high standard of living of the world's most advanced states. I am pleased that the authors of this bill invented this phrase to give political symbolism to one, otherwise, a technical bill. Yes, indeed, sustainable urban mobility and micro-mobility regulated by this draft law is basically a technical issue. The traffic in towns is a complex one. Many scientific branches are involved. It includes a wide range of technological innovations. All this, however, has a unique, exclusive goal to improve our lives. Inevitably they enter the microclimate of our everyday life, they focus on man, with the sole purpose of exempting him from the hostage of unregulated urbanization and redefining him as a dominant protagonist of his place. In this sense, a technical bill that regulates the movement in towns defines indirect but clearly also the level of civilisation of a society. Because the way we move, we behave, we coexist, it is a sign of a civilized society, it is a culture. It is the modern culture that every society seeks. Because, therefore, I want to believe that as a state, self-government, society, we want this level of modern culture, the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, which are proposed by this bill in its first part, are another tool to claim it. This is the first time that the central administration has established uniform rules and specific requirements for the preparation of such plans, based on the European Commission's directives, for the evaluation and approval of urban mobility projects. They are Local Government I and II Organisations with a population of more than thirty thousand who are now obliged to draw up projects on the basis of a single model, which will allow them to claim funding without delay. It's up to them to make use of it. It is up to them to seek cooperation with stakeholders. It is up to them to achieve extended acceptance for their successful implementation. The bill, on the other hand, describes in detail how all this can be implemented. It shall describe the responsibilities of the designer of the project, how the project is set up, staffed and the work of the working group for the preparation of the project. Describes the composition of the network of advisory bodies. It lays down the administrative procedure for examining a CVA. Insert the update process. It provides for the establishment and operation of an electronic platform for monitoring the project. Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans show the future in each municipality and region of the country. This move by Greece towards the future is described in the other parts of the bill. It is a future where urban buses will move without a driver, guided by a control centre, which will of course consult the Privacy Authority. Innovative are the provisions introduced by the Legislation on Autonomous Driving, provisions that lay down the conditions for Greece to be a pioneer in scientific research in this area again. It is a future that people with disabilities will move comfortably with their personal electric cars, have access everywhere, will not feel exclusion and social isolation, because the main objective is accessibility and quality of life. It is a future where children will move with their rollers and skates without the risks that have been observed in recent years due to a lack of an institutional framework. It is a future that adults will move in mopeds without the recent confusion about the use of these new instruments. Finally, in the lack of an institutional framework which has risked the denomination of special personal electrical vehicles in the awareness of the citizens. Finally, the bill gives the definition and context that these instruments become part of our daily lives. It is a future where two or three cycles will carry products to the city centers, products which will have been received from the urban centres for the integration of goods into the perimeter of cities, that is to say, special installations which will comply with all the requirements for temporary storage, consolidation, decommissioning of cargo and unloading of goods. It is a future without supply trucks to close the streets, a future with fewer cars in towns where pedestrians will have the first reason. In fact, here, the Minister said that there will soon be other legislative initiatives to strengthen Articles 38 and 39 which regulate pedestrian traffic issues. It is a future with better trained drivers, as it continuously improves, updates, simplifys and modernises the institutional framework for diplomas, with a updated Road Traffic Code, which will incorporate and exploit all new technological data. It is a future with more controlled and hence safer cars moving on the streets, as with the KTEO Controllers Register an additional control filter is introduced to the suitability of cars, while with the register of imported used vehicles we create an extra filter so that our country does not become a dumpster of old vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote on a detailed bill, careful and in the slightest detail that the future brings into the present. To say this otherwise, we have to vote on a bill that sees what tomorrow is and takes care of it from today. That is why I believe that after the extensive discussions we have had in the committees, it will be a bill that will be passed without radical disagreement, because no one can disagree with the country's progress. And if we may be disagreeing with the plan many times, I would like to believe that we are all in agreement. We all want the country's progress. We all want to adopt and assimilate in our culture the possibilities offered by technology to make our lives better, to approach the modern world. This draft is another demonstration of adaptation with modern developments, methods and practices, how rather that incorporates all European know-how and legislation on sustainable urban mobility, as adopted by the European Commission through the ELTIS Observatory. This bill, therefore, is another indication that we are moving quickly to approach the modern world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u41	Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really hope that the previous circle of speeches is governed by sincerity and political bravery from all sides, so that we can help to call them clean and stunned words, because we live and breathe daily in the hope that the next day will be better than the previous one. Unfortunately, however, there is a expectation that does not really benefit, with the insistence of the Mitsotakis Government turning the time back. How does he do it? Whether through legislating either through professions or through artificial dividing and hatred injections, pretextably the unity. These are techniques that it has mainly developed from its importance in communication rather than in the political substance. I will try to strike this balance between draft legislation, topicality and political reality to be as fair and documented as possible. I am pleased that the Deputy Minister, Mr Kefaliannis, who supported the bill in the committee responsible, was tolerant of some changes that promote one of the most important legislation in SYRIZA, which concerns the SPAs, with Law 1599/2019. He was open to suggestions, you better. It is a little harder, Minister, on the second side, on transport, and in particular on the points which, in the European direction and not the obligation, provide the opportunity to hold a two-tier driving licence of twenty-five cubic metres of self-righteousness. That is to say, you also have this driving capacity without any other condition, with the argument that it is happening in many Mediterranean countries. Of course, it only succeeds in opening up, perhaps provocatively, the turnover of the two-cycle importers and, of course, it increases the risk of increasing road accidents. The second point is, on the basis of a coordinate attack on all the public authorities, the ability to control the CTEs by private individuals. I referred to the parliamentary behaviour of Mr Kefaliannis, because I feel sure that the footprint of the absent Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, is only on these two points. It is on the points I have mentioned, where there is either a coordinated attack on the public or an attempt to promote some interests. Mr. Kefalayannis, I have a very great deal of reservations - and I honestly do not say this to you provocatively - about whether the Minister for Transport knows or even took a look at the first articles of the draft law concerning the CVA, an innovation for 2019 that, over a year and a half, has been put into effect for part of the administration and is entering into the bill that you bring about for the whole of self-government. We are also discussing the financial instruments that support interventions for the better quality of life of the Greeks. I think - and I say this loudly, not at all insultingly, but as a political feeling or intuition - that the accelerated Minister, the Infrastructure Minister, should not even know what the Arctic SBAK means. Of course, where we are looking and finding the Karamanlis footprint is explained. It is a constant struggle in the Ministerial Council for who will give the best and fastest services to some major interests, singing about the state's control status, but also for the prospect of making the public better and not erasing from the country's map. Because these two forces are interfering. Your intention is that it is public in nature and contributes to the control and protection of citizens to eradicate and become a great pragmatism, that is to say, the identity of the audited and audited. I told you, of course, about the quarrel. There are other examples. There is the Brutsi footprint in the "scole-scotch" - you remember, you didn't forget - that by Mr. Hatzidakis to PPC and DEDDIE, now to the EKT and pensions. In a few hours' time, the Commission and the Plenary Plenary Session of Mr Skreka for the colonial contract of the company 'ELLENIC CRYSOS'. It's a long list as a nightmare! This draft law has also been submitted to the committee - I will put it back now - two very detailed objections from the most qualified policing experts who have attempted with regard to the number of provisions that have been consulted and the number that has finally appeared in the final text. There were also objections that overthrow both the core of the design and the spirit of the SBAKs in Article 3 of the bill. They are linked to European data, European acquis, strategic planning, the form to be taken by the CIDs in order to be financed in relation to both the study and the implementation of the projects containing them. What did I say now, though? It is a shame for the New Democracy what I said or a party offense if we were in a rival camp. I said the bad word: Strategic design, structured and targeted design. Sounds on your sideline as a bad joke, worse even than the Mitsotakis did not defy the measures in Ikaria. Really, the National Strategic Infrastructure Plan, which also deals with transport, does it exist? Is he on a shelf of your ministry? Did you abolish it? Have you reviewed it? Have you prepared any new ones? And because you're too good at the communication cover, you keep it to us as a gift - a surprise with some of the 'adordon' measures that you're also taking in the pandemic? Is something the matter that we need to know about? If you consider the National Strategic Development Plan to be the photographs and vast monologues on TV screens and inauguration ribbons in works that some others, in the harsh conditions of the Memorandum and hard bankruptcy that you inherited in 2009, managed to unblock, then we're talking about something else. Of course, I know the representative. He is known: Athens - Patras. That's it. Whatever happens in this country, any uncertainty, any omission, whatever inertia, we will hear about Athens - Patras. You're so predictable that you don't even have any news interest. We've been filling out for about two years...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u43	Patras - Tower.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u44	Patras tower? And Athens - Patras. You have an appeal there too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u45	You cut a ribbon...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u46	I know, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I want peace! Minister, don't be alarmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u48	I support, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u49	We don't need help!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u50	The Patras tower is your great argument. In all other things, such as Athens - Patras, which have been completed, you seek to hang yourself from despair in everything you can find. It's not even funny, because the anti-SYRIZA front, the "for everything's fault SYRIZA" is your main political line. There's nothing else. You've been running for two years, and when you're around, you only find this, that it's because of SYRIZA. I also said at the outset that the sparks that you are going on with these legislation, which either introduce interests from the back door or come into direct challenge with society and with citizens, are not to pass them without interest. To return to the initial - and I would like a truly honest answer - the thousands of New Izmir residents who were on the street yesterday asking to stop the climate of police rule were manipulated by SYRIZA? Is that what you're telling them? That seven, eight or ten thousand New Smyrna residents were underrepresented or are they members of the SYRIZA party organisation? You dare say it. Of course, the hundred professional provocators of para-state 'blacks' who have been meeting them for many years now, who have been pushing the hand of friendship indirectly - in indirect, do not rush again to demonize it - to those who have an interest in this diversion. They're the well-known strangers who no one could find them. And who would find them? Mr. Chrysochoidis? He can't find Mr. Christos Pappas here, will he find the professionals "bugs"? For Christ's sake! Is this happening? I'm going back to the SVA case because it hurts us. We are proud of this project. I repeat that the Undersecretary has listened with caution to improved proposals concerning regional, regional and local government, to give greater emphasis to civil society and to their involvement in the formulation of these plans and to limit the choices, sometimes with characteristic self-interest, made by the mayor of local government, who consider the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan to be their only appreciation for the present and future. We have asked you to change the timing of the evaluation and closure of these procedures, so that we do not face the stagnation that has occurred in some seventy municipalities that have gone through over the last two years. All this, however, ladies and gentlemen, because I am sure your answers will be 'the bad SYRIZA', one, the other, and so on. - they require a basic principle of politics and parliamentism: confidence. It's a prerequisite. They presuppose trust not in polling, but in citizens' consciousness, confidence and model in practice and not in the dream of television monologues. I'm sorry Mr. Karamanlis is missing from this Chamber. Alas! Would he deal with an issue that more than half of SYRIZA's political choice? Where to develop his anti-SYRIZA study and mania? I am sorry, but the trust in the Ministry where Mr Karamanlis is headed has been unreservedly shredded by the cradle of his public transport policies. The bill we are discussing has basic provisions for urban mobility, transport, the movement of people with disabilities, the improvement of quality of life. What is Mr Karamanlis' contribution to this? Is it stuck or not stuck in buses? Do you have an answer? This is not a matter of spatial planning error or overexcession of Patras - Athens or Pyrgos - Patras. Is it stuck or not stuck in buses? Don't bend the head, Mr. Sedetakis. I want an answer, as a citizen. Is it stuck or not stuck in buses? Is it transmitted or not transmitted to buses? Are the three hundred buses of the 'national supplier' which the Court of Auditors considered to be inappropriate, yes or no, to be dangerous for citizens' health? There's no SYRIZA and anti-SYRIZA here. Here's the very tough meeting with reality. Does it stick or doesn't it stick? We have death of a worker in OSH in Thessaloniki from the coronary. Have you come up with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u51	Is it sticking to the protests or not sticking to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u52	Would you invent a study or an opinion of the white man? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't rush, Mr. Comrade. You'll answer. Do you have an answer to "stick or not stick"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u53	Is it sticking to the protests or not sticking to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u54	Very much. But it sticks more when you legislate in this House as a "washer" and send people to the streets! Come on, get serious, parliamentary! Stop making the House laundry so the world doesn't come out! And don't interrupt to make these setbacks. You're basically responsible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u55	Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u56	Don't make a dialogue between you two!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u57	You're mortals! You're not victims!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u58	That's who you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u59	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u60	If I return to peace...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u61	In any case, nothing is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, this is the second plan. It's the blueprint, noise...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u63	Let go of that! When I presiding, do not tell me, because 30 years in here I know what is happening, as I know what has happened in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u64	Because I respect your thirty years, which is why I'm trying to protect the process, helping not to be of that kind...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u65	Good. Don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u66	What if he's provocative?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u67	I'll call on my colleague, whoever he is, if he goes to interrupt you. Keep going and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u68	I'm on it. Other questions about transport: Are you really interested in protecting citizens, workers and the passenger public? Because, with the sole argument that it is the past, I would ask Mr Karamanlis not to reach the point where Mr Karaoglou, your colleague, former Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace unreservedly, State Secretary for Responsibility, said this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President. It's Karamanlis' argument for a year and a half that it's all SYRIZA's fault. Mr. Thodoros Karaoglou stated before Greek justice: "In particular, I withdraw the mismanagement and corruption in OSH during the period when these two participated in the administration during the period that OSH rightly entered into the Greek public administration and was wound up in operation. This statement can be made public." It's his apologies for not being tried in court. I'll testify for the Minutes. Do you want Mr. Karamanlis to have that fate before the courts to withdraw everything you've claimed for a year and a half? I also have a question, because you are defenders of transparency of public money. We said before about Athens buses. You need to explain to us how three hundred buses are made by the same supplier of the same type, because they are not considered dangerous and the contest is rejected by the Court of Auditors and the same buses are released to Thessaloniki. Thessalonica is a different class of citizens? Are they any other resistance to the epidemiological crisis? Are they more COVID resistant than Athens? Three buses of the same type are cut as dangerous due to a lack of ventilation, due to a lack of windows and the very same traffic in Thessaloniki. And the answer to the employees and the passenger audience of Thessaloniki by the undocumented head you have put, former CEO of HNDGS, with many loose ends in the judiciary, is: "Work up, make your money!" It is the public declaration of the head of an urban transport organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u69	Now hang up with this, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u70	I shall close with two questions, Mr President, for which I also request answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u71	But close because what you're saying doesn't have anything to do with the bill. These are topical questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, it is a matter of trust for the legislation we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u73	Good, but tolerance has its limits. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u74	I shall therefore close by presenting three sets of documents, and I would like an answer. I want an answer on whether or not EUR 325,000 that the cleaning of the OSTH facilities will cost, as a company directly entrusted with an emergency procedure, as it writes in "DIAGYIA", a company from Serres, which until the opening of this commission was a construction company. Simple setup. Serres, construction company...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Giannoulis, I will show no further tolerance. You're not going to ask a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u76	Mr. President, I'm presenting...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u77	Yes, test them without analyzing them! I've given you four more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u78	Shouldn't I explain what it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u79	No, it's not in the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u80	One is that. And a second, where I want an answer, is how the donation of fifty buses from Leipzig to Thessaloniki, at a purchase cost of 7 000, is made at a cost of four times the cost, at storage costs and the cost of protecting the space saved of 400,000 euros. I'm just waiting for answers from Mr. Karamanlis. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u81	These, of course, could also be tabled as a timely question for Mr Karamanlis to come to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u82	I will, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u83	If you're gonna do it, why did you eat us four more minutes? The floor will now be taken by my colleague from the Change Movement, Mr Christos Gocas. I would like to inform you that Mr Karamanlis will be coming to the Chamber. He just had an obsolete obligation. As far as I am concerned, Mr Kefaliannis represents the government. But Mr. Karamanlis will be here. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the topical and urgent subjects of major importance, I would like to state in my turn the unequivocal condemnation of yesterday's events in Nea Smyrna, with the serious injury of the police, and also unjustified violence against citizens last Sunday on the police side. More generally, we condemn all forms of violence, wherever it comes. While society experiences the climax of the economic crisis, with the appalling effects on both the economy and society itself, the Civic Opposition and the Government, instead of starving in the creation of a climate of division and polarisation, each for their own reasons, must assume their institutional responsibility and isolate all acts of violence. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are discussing: "Greece in the motion: Sustainable Urban Mobility - Micromobility and other provisions" attempts in the first two parts to regulate two very important and modern issues: Sustainable urban mobility and micromobility, directly linked to each other and one in a decisive way. There are two further parts of the transport bill with various fragmentary provisions. Of course, there were twenty articles less, but at least they concern the same Ministry. The need to establish an integrated legislative framework for both Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, SVAs, and for micromobility is evident and concerns the quality of life of citizens, the organisation of pedestrians and vehicles traffic spaces, the parking spaces, traffic conditions and traffic with sustainable urban transport and road safety, the integration of Light Personal Electricity Vehicles, the ENVOs, urban transport, but with rules now, and should focus on its own citizens and needs in the new environment, and they are certainly linked to the leading problem of the era, that of climate change. The legal framework for the CVA was first laid down by Law 4599/2019 without the proposed implementation framework being issued for two years. Authorization with this bill for ministerial decisions we hope not to bring the same fate into this law. We therefore agree on this need, and also on the promotion of corresponding arrangements. But it is true that sustainable urban mobility is also linked to urban and spatial planning, environmental issues, development and social actions. The design should therefore be comprehensive in coordination and consultation and should not be carried out through fragmentary and individual approaches. This should in any event be ensured. In this sense, we believe that today's debate does not refer to an integrated strategic plan which would define the procedures for coordinating the various areas of concern and obviously involve different ministries. As we have seen from the example of the two laws of 4579/2020 and 4710/2020 of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which refer on the one hand to local urban plans and, on the other, to electricity. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] So what will be ahead of us, the sustainable urban mobility plan of a region or the local urban plan or like electricity? First, mopeds, electric motor vehicles, skates and so forth were subsidised, and since chaos has been created and so many problems now we are trying to define the traffic framework. The coordination issues will also arise if they are not anticipated and if they are not prevented from being involved in the planning of sustainable urban mobility and between the LAGs and, in particular, between the municipalities and regions, since they are referred to in a common space. There is concern despite the relevant references to this matter in the committee by Mr Kefaliannis the State Secretary. We therefore need comprehensive legislation with the participation of more ministries. We need institutionalised and not voluntary partnerships between the TAs and the two degrees. For example, the CEDEFOP poses these serious problems. Another serious issue is funding. It is well known that about a hundred and fifty municipalities are already working on a CVA with resources from the Green Fund. Apart from completing a CVA, there is a study of the implementation and implementation of the projects and actions to be planned. In addition to the funding from the public works programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, there is no specific provision in addition to the reports again by Mr Kefaliannis in committee. It will be a pity that this attempt to leave only plans on paper. In order not to keep these designs on paper, they should be adapted to the Greek reality and to the existing situations in most urban centres that will make it difficult for new designs. In particular: firstly, the need to implement the CVAs consistently and not by manoeuvres through institutionalised control to the enforcement and enforcement bodies, the CVAs. Secondly, the completion of a CVA course has sufficient bureaucracy which results in an examination within two months from the relevant section of the Ministry of Infrastructure to be characterised. On the other hand, the continuity is at the other end without any defined framework. At this stage of examining a draft CVAQ, there should be substantial monitoring and overlap between plans for compliance with the conditions of presidential decrees of protected areas, and for a more effective procedure we could decentralise many of these procedures at regional level. Thirdly, the provision of broad visibility and publicity that it will disclose and enhance the participation of local bodies and representatives of citizens in the network of actors for active citizenship participation in a design that concerns it. Fourthly, actions which lead to more space for the citizen, pedestrians, should include an increase in green. Fifthly, as described in the bill - through the CVA attempts to strengthen public transport, promote mild modes of transport, use of bicycles, organize parking spaces to deal with among others the increasing traffic of IX within the urban and urban fabric of cities. In relation to public transport, problems continue. The competition for the rental of three hundred buses was stuck at the Court of Auditors and the crowding in public transport is still an outbreak of coronary overtransmission. On these technical issues, such as closed windows, we have repeatedly spoken and put them in other debates. Secondly, the immediate reinforcement of public transport, the extension of the metro with accelerating the construction of line 4 are a priority. Thirdly, because we are also easily used to going from one end to the other, restricting the IX does not constitute expulsion but is the result of concrete actions, recognizing and peculiarities relating to the population of urban centres, such as a large average age, vulnerable groups and so on. Fourthly, the networks planned should be operational, such as bicycles and not deadlocks, for example. Fifthly, provision should be made for the participation of working parties in the specialisation of urban engineers. Sixthly, for traffic and road safety, there should be theoretical courses in schools, kindergartens, primary schools, visits to parks, road safety courses in high school and high school in the field of road traffic code, markings, signs and general behaviour and modulation of traffic consciousness with programmes relating to both teachers and the training of trainers granting driving licences. And lastly, the time to review the update of the CVA after ten years may be short to have some scope after some interventions have been properly assessed. Perhaps we should go further even in twenty years. For the second place. The institutional framework for microcirculation comes to fill the gap concerning the movement of a number of vehicles that are already part of our everyday lives. There are streets everywhere, squares, pedestrians, pedestrians. Problems and risks are created for the safety of pedestrians and users of these vehicles. An issue that has been dealt with by the respective Committee on Road Safety and has been identified by representatives of operators active in this area. The electric use of these vehicles, bicycles, skates, scooters, single-circuit cars or two-circuit vehicles leads to a new category of vehicles, light personal electric vehicles, EEE. The electricity mobilisation to be promoted in public transport is linked to local planning and to sustainable urban mobility. Thus, for example, the development of a network of power-driven stations will enhance the choice of using power-driven vehicles by the citizens, and that is something that also needs to go ahead. Is there a lot of talk about electromobility, a form of environmentally friendly mobility, but how do we go? We mean the choice of electricity for all means, such as IX, public transport, taxi, electricity for many, and above all the rail network which does not seem to be a priority in the planning of the government. Another problem with sustainable urban mobility and micro-mobility is obviously related to old towns and most urban centres and relates to the difficulty of developing infrastructures for pedestrian traffic zones and VOCs independent of the road network of cars. But even today, however, we see choices that ignore this necessity, for example in Athens where the choice of the great walk was preferred. Some specific issues in relation to micromobility. First, road safety in relation to their conditions of use, such as EPO speeds and age limits for users. The maximum speed limit of twenty-five km/h is linked to the possibility that people over 15 years of age can drive these vehicles and over 12 years of age, respectively, with bicycles and skates, on a road network where the permitted speeds are fifty km/h without any precondition in relation to knowledge of Road Traffic Code or some education and with the experience of the general traffic behaviour that exists. So there is one topic and we suggest that the speed limit in the inhabited areas is reduced from fifty to thirty kilometres an hour and the limit of the considered pedestrian movement for VOCs or other vehicles is less than six kilometres an hour, possibly in four kilometres. We all know about the circumstances. Safety issues also include the use of helmets, which should be mandatory and not just a recommendation. In the circulation of EPO vehicles the use of mobile phones obviously distracts attention and should not be allowed. Fourth point: There is the problem of attitudes and parking spaces of the EPO, as well as of those which serve disabled people, as well as accessibility for these people, schools and inquiries. And, of course, for our part, because many proposals have been made by the representatives of disabled people at the hearing, we support all these proposals. The third part concerns the incorporation of a Community Directive on the provision of the certificate of professional competence. I will make three remarks. The first concerns the need to protect personal data from the use of the intended electronic network with international cooperation, the second concerns the extension of certification for other categories, where conditions also require it, such as movement in networks of national, provincial, large traffic, vehicles with dangerous loads, etc. The third point is that we do not agree with education and practical examination in a private vehicle - Article 35 is this - but only in an educational vehicle and we ask that this provision be withdrawn. Fourth part: We have referred in detail to all the provisions, we have tabled and suggestions and we await the final positions of the Ministry. For example, in the traffic of IX passenger buses and trucks without type-approval, which mainly serve disabled persons, there should be an audit certificate for safe traffic. With regard to the lifting of ownership, it should not be contrary to the provisions of the Civil Code which provides for the full repayment of the market price. I am referring to Rule 50. There should be provision for a transitional phase - six to twelve months - so that there are no surprises. It is positive to lay down provisions - Article 51 - establishing a register of imported used vehicles with sanctions for inaccurate registration data and the forecasts for the location and operation of the Urban Goods Integration Centres. Moreover, the possibility of continuing to work as a candidates' trainer after the application for retirement should also have retroactive effect for those who have already submitted an application or retired for obvious reasons of equality. That's in Article 55. We have also requested information on the planned contracts that are to be signed with the Ministry and other bodies, such as IHS, etc., on the subject that these conventions will have and whether they are related to the provisions discussed in this draft law. Now, as far as the CTEO Supervisors' registry is concerned, I will say: in any case the establishment of auditors for more than two hundred private CTEOs and about twenty to thirty public CTEOs does not find us opposed. But we would like answers to our questions about the number of auditors required, the body and the way in which they are trained and certified, the possibility of checking by certified bodies already in place, or the possibility of registering officials of the respective public services. Finally, there was a lot of discussion on the equivalence of driving licences - Article 54 - and in particular on the validity and conditions of the driving licence B' first on the driving of AM category vehicles, mopeds and lightweight quadricycles with conditions of the age of twenty-seven and the degree of qualification six years and second on the driving of A1 category vehicles, motorcycles up to a hundred and twenty-five cubic metres with the above conditions and three hours of practical training. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need one or two more minutes. Remove them from my dentistry. There are two different approaches. Each one has its own arguments. Safety is a priority for us, and this is the criterion we propose: Firstly, two to three practical courses for the IT category and more practical courses - the nine established by Germany are a basis - and a corresponding certificate of ability to drive by the instructor, which will have been certified for the award of this certificate, free of charge for the services or other financial burden of the driver. For category A1 respectively, there may also be a reduction in age and degree time limits. For AM category vehicles up to twenty-five kilometers an hour, such as motorcycles, there are no driving licences, but, as we mentioned, there are no 15-year-olds entering the road network without any training. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, we recognise the importance of establishing the legislative framework for both the CVA and for micromobility in relation to improving the daily life of the citizen, facilitating mobility, strengthening electricity mobility and mild ways and means of movement, making more space available for the needs of sustainable urban mobility, despite the fact that there could be a more integrated framework for mobility in conjunction with local urban planning, planning, land use and the broader framework for development, social and economic. In this context, we are positive at the start of the bill, with the concerns and proposals we have put forward, by voting on the individual provisions that we agree on the individual chapters, and we expect the debate on our final position to be concluded in the provisions that we have, as we have expressed them. For the amendments, I will be placed in dentistry. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The reason is now the Special Buyer of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Stoltides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. We must say that in full order once again the staff of the political forces of capital, the urban parties, with their divided roles, are trying to forge the ruthless need for business groups to make more profits to the environment, as a sensitivity to the popular problems that are growing in the area of urban mobility. Your twilight, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, is trying to dress up with a pre-vious saviour those who, in order to increase their profits, have made the lives of our people in towns in the literally skateboard, now come to fake the electric skates as a solution. You all helped, as governments, the big capital put all the branches of production in hands. You helped it to treasure, by privatising the strategic sectors of the economy, energy, telecommunications, transport. You helped it gain from theft of the people's residence, you helped it to break out of profits, ending up the insurance funds, helped it to break out of profits, leading wages to the level of hunger and impoverishment. Well, you've reached them "bad" business groups to have gathered so much that they don't have what to do with them, difficult to raise them. And you were assigned to carry out the next task. You have been instructed to persuade our people not to demand either euros from the billions allocated by the European Union funds, which are money alone, from heavy taxation, and which is a very small part of what he has given, not to ask for anything to strengthen the health system, for vaccines for everyone to ensure life, not to call for infrastructures for schools and universities openly, not to ask for a franc for the strengthening of the fleet of public transport with modern vehicles and dense routes, not to call for a franc for the construction of green spaces, sport and leisure culture. Not to ask, that is, any of what it needs. This is what the business groups have given you and, of course, break him into the crackdown every time he claims any of this. SYRIZA did so when they wanted to grab the people's homes, now New Democracy does it against those who come out for a breath in the squares. The escalation of authoritarianism, repression and police sovereignty by the government is being done for the passage of hostile policies against workers and for criminal responsibilities for failure to manage the pandemic. You are, of course, underestimating the tolerance of our people. You account for her as a weakness. But you are causing his indignation and anger. Its organised expression - in this it calls for the Communist Party of Greece - has the power and the repression to cancel, but also the anti-popular policy to overthrow. He proved it in Nea Smyrna yesterday despite the repressive orgy and the provocative. We would say that the controversy between you, SYRIZA, New Democracy, KINAL, on matters only technically on the bill, which aims to conceal the strategic conglomerate of all parties and the agreement on the submission of mobility plans to the general designs of capital, which starts with the uterus of promoting their interests, the European Union, that is to say, which also gives the orientation towards green development and the 'green new deal', which is the key aspect of urban policy in the next period, as is digital transformation, an over-throwing, that is, era, for the monopolies of the Elderly Epirus that are preparing to unravel out full state aid of EUR 260 billion per year, which is the cost of transition to the green economy, in the name of climate change and sensitivity, of the European Union for the environment. And all this in the middle of competition for who will flood the European market with batteries for electricity. Sustainable Urban Development Plans are strategic plans that organise citizens' movements and goods distribution in urban areas, says the platform itself. You're the ones who say that it's technical. The corresponding vision for Thessaloniki is the entrepreneurship and cultural heritage of the city being supported and projected within a living, resilient and functional for residents and visitors urban environment. Seeing each city's CVA can easily understand their obvious subordination to the general plans of capital: in tourist capital in different areas of towns, in construction capital for the distribution of investment, in industrial capital for transport to and from production plants. These designs are also subject to land use arrangements. It has not been omitted by business groups to inform us through the CVA what obstacles they want to get out of their way to put more quickly and easier pieces of land into hand for the implementation of their business actions and also to be co-financed with the money of our people. The obstacles to them, they say, were the exhaustively slow law on public procurement and procurement, the well-known n.4412. And with last week's bill, you certainly exempted business groups from such burdens by handing them over and controlling large public works, making the state a faster and galantic sponsor of the groups, allowing even their mild form of action even in NATURA 2000 areas, as in SYRIZA, was the case for the installation of wind turbines. It is undeniably explosive to everyone's interest in the environment! It is hypocritical that the PPAs provide for interventions to improve public transport, public transport and their operating conditions, when you constantly degrade the transport work, reduce the routes, adapt more to the interests of business groups, leaving financially downgraded local districts isolated, when vehicles rot at risk to the roads, when mostly thick money is given to contractors in an outdated fleet, while with this same money they could buy new generation vehicles without a print on the environment. It is also hypocritical that the environmental interest when all of you within the urban fabric as governments legislated to make an effort to escape everywhere combustion plants, SRF - RDF, such as "TITAN" in Thessaloniki, which was removed by the popular factor, in the Gender CYTA, or the burning of hazardous and toxic waste in other cities. Mobility planning and SBAKs serve urban planning. The draft law contains provisions for the gradual ban on IX, particularly non-electromed by city centres, by implementing the more general planning that the centres want as tourist and business centres. The project "ATHENA 2021" for a decade has placed the mark of the gradual blockade of IX from the city centers, banning even the parking, strengthening its role as a transport hub and tourist destination. In this direction is also the implementation of the "Great Walk" in the Municipality of Athens. The increase in the movement with small-circulation engines, but also lightly personal electric vehicles, EPO, are a provision of an alternative movement solution for excluded cars. Inside everything is also revealed what digital transformation means and who is benefiting. A very immature technology provides for a quadrupling of the driver's workload which will be responsible for four vehicles, while leaving sins to the manufacturer of the automotive vehicle for any accidents. Also, continuous surveillance through cameras on vehicles removes the last aspect of the private life of travellers with more than doubt about who is using and why personal data. Interventions on the issues of professional truck drivers do not only touch their real problems, but also broaden them, because, despite the incredible technological potential with digital tachographs, with GPS, etc., working hours are systematically violated and their basic insurance rights are not respected. Of course, the exceptions of categories such as these are made by the CPI, the Certificate of Occupational Capacity, and the risk enhance also the compaction of the already torned wage and insurance rights of professional drivers. The interventions to the KOK are limited to punishing them without touching on the real causes of infringements, the most important being employers' terrorism, the pressure and the intensification of work for a greater profit, which has only led to the workers supplyry in recent years to many loss of life. And you are now adding new risks from the abolition of the training of bicyclists, trying to shape a positive climate to public opinion, which is squeezing from the total economic burden. To sum up, urban planning for cities has anti-grassy features. Land uses serve large businesses, excluding the people from free spaces, their right to travel is increasingly limited to the limits of travel to work, and only when profitability occurs, leads to depreciation of public transport, in total accurate movement, crushes labour rights further. And in this case the achievements of science and technology, precisely because they are not in the hands of the working class, are not exploited to meet their needs, in an urban field that is constantly growing and life is becoming more suffocating. In other words, the draft law does not take into account the place of residence and the need for workers to move easily, quickly, cheaply from and from their workplace. It does not take into account the need to create green spaces, recreation, culture and easy and quick access from all of them. The Communist Party not only is not technophobic, but instead points out that growth in profit logic not only can not meet the needs of our people, but also chokes the very real potential of science and technology. It limits both its scope and its use as the bar set by the purchasing capacity that is constantly falling for exactly the same reason. It also illuminates the Communist Party that resolving this problem requires a radically different development path, which passes through the socialisation of the concentrated means of production. For example, with the industry - ornamenting ELVO in the hands of our people - to produce means of public transport modern, as it can today, and not sold out by all of you in the defence interests of Israel. Also, with the diamond of "LARCO" in the hands of our people and not the one sold out by all of you in the "brows", who want to put it in hand and its easy conversion to industry that produces the raw material for batteries and thus the profits of electricity. And, of course, all this must be done through a scientific central design and production and the disposal and distribution of products and services, solely on the basis of the needs of the people. Only in such a context can a city be designed, constructed and operated to implement a transport and mobility system in the city, combining fast, cheap, reliable transport, land-use planning, human housing development, free for all leisure, sport, culture and, of course, technological solutions, in order to reduce human work and increase safety and efficiency. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the point when they can be done. Now they can be done, today, yesterday. All that is lacking now is the decision of our people to choose a life worthy of the wealth that he alone produces, to choose a life without the parasites in the economy, which is in their hands by gloomy growth brings new weights, continuously removing rights, rotting their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we mentioned in the first committee, this bill seems to be a positive, innovative development for an issue that is of great concern to us, at least as regards sustainable mobility, since public transport is facing many problems, how much more so in the period of pandemic where the Prime Minister's assurance has not been made at all, according to which they are not a broadcasting centre, as has been shown by studies. We have, of course, repeatedly asked to provide us with the two studies it had invoked, but without having taken them to this day. Nor can we imagine that we will ever take them, since his claim is inconsistent with common sense. On the other hand, in terms of regulating mobility, it is not a priority for the country, not only because it runs from evil to worse in the economy, health and nationalities, but because it remains locked, since the government has not taken care of adequate ICUs. That's why. Regardless of all this, however, the issue is of interest to us, noting that its subject matter is personal media, particularly news by electric drive, changes in the Road Traffic Code and other related regulations. But while we start every time with the intention of supporting bills that we consider to be innovative and for the benefit of the development of our country's economy, we then discover elements that sincerely disappoint us, usually a multitude of rhetorical arrangements aimed at perpetuating the corrupt party client state for the benefit of the law of power. Continuingly, interest is not only about facilitating the lives of the citizens, given the possibility of domestic production and employment, so growth, because there are many micro-enterprises and inventors involved in Greece, while the production scales are helping. Here, it is a parameter that we are adopting in all our political proposals, namely, the production and creation of wealth, so that Greece can develop sustainablely and also, in order to create quality jobs that tourism does not provide, so that our young people from abroad, who are for us, for the Greek Solution, our first priority. Furthermore, the electric bicycle market from 17 billion worldwide in 2017 increased to 41 billion dollars in 2020, while some forecasts can reach 71 billion dollars by 2027 by replacing cars in cities. In Greece, unfortunately, there is small production of bicycles from just two companies in Patras and Larissa, in two cities that have traditions in bicycle use, but usually buy imported, like their spare parts, while some small businessmen are trying to enter the market like ARCHON with its tricycle and Give scooter. Moreover, there are many who provide electric bicycle conversion kits, such as the Speen of the three young people in Patras and more. This is a start-up in some way, with which, unfortunately, no one is concerned. Nor does it promote them, which would be the best help in their work, sales. Our view is that all these innovative initiatives should be financed from the ESDP and Next Generation EU packages, so that money can be used better and that they do not come back to Germany and the other countries of Northern Europe for imports of photovoltaics and wind turbines that are environmentally damaging, while also increasing our energy dependence. A modern trend covered by the bill in Article 42 is automatic vehicles. A device is amended, which until now had to have a driver on each automatic vehicle. This introduces the possibility to travel for research and pilot purposes buses without drivers on urban roads. But we do not agree with the remote driving, especially because of the conditions and the clandestineness that exists in Greece. In particular, we do not think it is possible to use all kinds of roads, while there should be a driver, so that we do not have accidents. Besides, we wondered what would happen in case a driver is not there and the bus acts on the basis of his software. If a kid gets out on the street, what's he gonna do? Is it going to brake sharply? Will it turn sharply at risk of hurting the passengers or falling on the child? So, what choices will be planned and who will have the bourgeois responsibility? The public? The remote driver? The construction company? Unfortunately, we did not receive satisfactory answers, so we reasonably asked for the withdrawal of the article. In the individual contents now of the bill, the first part and Articles 1 to 14 concern the creation of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, the CVA. Sustainable urban mobility is seen here as the mobility of people and the transport of goods into urban and peri-urban tissues, with the aim of ensuring a better quality of life. It concerns OTAs I grade, with a population of more than thirty thousand permanent residents or those in the metropolitan areas of Athens and Thessaloniki, which are covered by OASA and OASTH, as well as all OTA II grades. In this respect, we have expressed our concern about how it will be implemented, when responsibilities and resources are removed from the TAs by the laws of local government or when their technical services are not responsible, as is the case. In the second part and the micromobility, the cut in the bill is the character of EPOs, Light Personal Vehicles, such as skates, wheelbikes, electric bicycles, mopeds and others. Furthermore, they are regulated in procedural terms, such as vehicle equipment, parking space, joint ventures and driver's licenses. In this regard, there are justified comments in the consultation, which are probably not easily answered, but only on the assumption that this bill is a transitional solution until there are suitable routes for all these vehicles and familiarisation of the public. For example, there are already electric bicycles that are essentially pedal motorcycles and can exceed twenty - five kilometers an hour, as well as skates that can also exceed twenty - five kilometers an hour. Do you need a driver's license then? Should they limit the speed? Should there be a police officer? Who will know what a child is allowed to drive if he goes on the sidewalk and at what speed? Should they have security or not? Finally, in the remaining part of the bill, in its third and fourth parts, various provisions are mentioned in relation to the granting of driving licences, the CTEO Controllers’ Register, the register of imported used vehicles, the release of automated vehicles, the registration of trucks with the transfer of cars and the drivers' schools, which we have discussed in detail in committee. I shall now refer to a number of articles. In Article 1, our objection is general. It concerns, in other words, the institution of the CDI. In particular, it has been noted that many such projects either remain on paper or are inappropriate in practice, especially when the studies are commissioned by mayors and three-member management committees, when they do not arise through a democratic dialogue, since the OTA Act has distorted the mere proportionality. For example, the CVAs have already been established by Law 4599/2019 and Article 22, without the law still being applied in practice. Of course, implementation relates to the financial resources, as well as to the staff of the TAs that can be made available for this purpose. In this respect, however, there is no provision for any funds from the General Accounting Office of the State. This isn't the first time, of course. The provision of paragraph 3, therefore, as regards the obligation to draw up the CVA within one year of the adoption of the law, makes no sense if the problem of resources is not resolved beforehand. Article 44 has removed the possibility of classifying vehicles, the approval of which has expired or has not been issued for church monasteries, which existed before, with the view that it should be added. Very interesting is the possibility of not adopting a type-approval for cars with disabilities. Given the absence of a press office, it will enable many Greek inventors to provide solutions. For example, a plan for an AME vehicle had been presented by Greek designers in the past, as we have submitted it to committee in the Minutes. Article 48, as far as foreigners are concerned, does not specify anywhere whether they should have a work permit in the country, and this is also a problematic provision. In Article 54 and in paragraph 1A, the exception from the licence to drive motorcycles at maximum speed of twenty-five kilometres per hour shall be introduced. We agree, but we would suggest that, once again, we put forward a detailed proposal in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Firstly, restricting the roads that these vehicles are allowed to drive to those with satisfactory width, low movement and appropriate signalling. Secondly, no traffic of EPO on sidewalks and especially in the center of Athens. Third, print from the Ministry of Bicycleway Network with a website like New York. Fourth, curriculum driving in schools. In Article 59 we said that it should be added that the German automobile industry is exempted from fines so that public services are not affected by the application of the law, since the Minister for Development has done nothing - we all know - on the matter of Dieselgate. Besides, the General Accounting Office of the State did not anticipate revenue, knowing that all German companies can legally deceive, since Greece is their debt colony. Finally, with regard to Article 62, we stressed that it is unacceptable that restorations from the 2014 earthquake should still be pending in Lexiri. We hope that the same will happen with Samos and Elassona, whose inhabitants we want to express our support again, and also to ask for a rapid solution to housing and aid. I will close by the fact that in Greece the waste continues as if there is no tomorrow, in the distorting perception that as long as we are borrowed, we will take it, indifferent to deficits and debts. And the wrong view prevails in the government that it is not important that the amount of our borrowings, but only that of its service, when it is obvious that the service of a loan is not only interest, but also the return of capital, debt. Therefore, it is of course important that the amount of borrowing is important, and the main reason why our economy cannot develop is unsustainable debt both public and private. Why? Because there can be no growth without new loans to support consumption and investment. It is also known that due to the debt and deficits we have had to reduce expenditure and increase taxes, namely in the memoranda that have strangled our economy with a final result of the collapse of our GDP from EUR 240 billion to EUR 165 billion today - a huge reduction - the launching of debts and the conversion of our country into a occupied country. Because we have now mortgaged everything when we cannot serve the debt, such as the EUR 95 billion due in 2018, we are being asked to make exchanges of another kind, such as, in 2018, which took place in 2018, when Macedonia's name was delivered in relation to the transfer of EUR 95 billion to the post-2032. The same will happen when we find ourselves in a dead end again, considering that it will be new concessions this time, as regards our national sovereignty in the Aegean or Thrace that may have already been agreed. They're just handling all these communications issues. As far as the private sector is concerned, what will happen will be the change in the ownership status of businesses and households, including through the new bankruptcy law - an abortion, so that both companies and Greeks end up in the hands of foreigners. In this way Greece will return on a development path, but not for the Greeks, just as it happened in many other countries that went to Guatemala recently after it was also subjected to the IMF. With regard to the scope for debt reduction, there are four: firstly, the inflation that increases wages, but not debts; secondly, the refinancing of low-interest loans to maintain the illusion that they can be repaid later when growth follows; and thirdly, the deletion of the excessive debt; and fourthly, the higher rate of borrowing of growth. In this respect, the Government has been led to the second solution in the hope that it will manage to develop later on its average borrowing rate. But this is a utopia, an illusion, including because of the incredible mismanagement of the pandemic, with the successive and unscheduled locks that have kneeled the companies in Greece, and it is now known to everyone that the locks are destroying both the economy and health more widely in other conditions, without reducing the cases and deaths of the pandemic. In this context it has supported all its hopes in European support and tourism, when our country urgently needs to change both its economic and tourism model. It needs a proper inventory of its assets to know what it owes, not the chaos we have seen in the state's balance sheet, which was really chaos, and also an interim budget, since the former one is for garbage. The budget we have today is really for garbage, without any overcompensation. Therefore, we think the next day will be a nightmare, of course, hoping to make a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of Mera25, George Logiadis, now has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to condemn all forms of violence from wherever it comes, the division of Greek society and its disorientation, which only hurts. Let everyone assume their responsibilities and the government of its own, which is the absolute largest. Today we are discussing the draft law entitled "Greece on the Move" of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The draft law has sixty-five articles, while only forty-five were tabled in the consultation. The procedure laid down in Law 4622/2019, entitled ‘Executive State: the organisation and operation of government, government bodies and central administration’, on the consultation through the opengov.gr website, has not been complied with. This phenomenon of legislative bypassing consultation and adding twenty articles has become a rule, which is inconsistent with the principles of good legislature, as defined by the laws and the Constitution. If, therefore, the draft law is passed on to these additional articles, it will be illegal, contrary to Law 4622/2019, the Gerapetritos Act, which you have legislated and which is unconstitutional. We urge you not to allow this diversion from legality. Otherwise: "Teacher you taught and law you do not prevail"! I table the relevant law in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point Mr Georgios Logiadis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 4 October 2019, the Government committed that within four months it would table the legislative framework that would provide for the entire regulatory framework for the purchase, safety and use in towns of all micro-vehicles, such as skateboards and roller skateboards. The current draft law was submitted not in four months, as it was committed, but on 20 November 2020, that is, one year later. What does that mean? That in this year all cities have been filled with skates that drive anyone anywhere and at any speed. There are skates whose speed reaches up to a hundred and twenty kilometers an hour. Thus, with the frugality of the state a large group of traders and users was formed. And all this without any legalization, all illegal and all in the air. It should be recalled that on September 24, 2019, we had in Chios the first fatal car accident in Greece, a victim of electric skate. On September 22, 2020, in Hersonissos Crete, an 11-year-old driving an electric plate, who had rented for 5 euros and three days later ended up. The death of these children - and not only - shows us the creation of an informal framework that enabled the country to be flooded with electric skates and to create a business lobby of citizens' importers and skates rented. It is ironic that today's draft law was tabled for consultation on 20 November, which is the global day of the rights of the child, while the child was killed. It is known that electric skates entered into circulation in early 2019 with temporary permission, as we stress, of the Municipality of Athens. Lucky? We don't think so! No municipality has any right to allow any means of getting into circulation. As far as Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are concerned, SVAs should be aimed at supplementing or even substituting as much as possible the most traffic taking place by car with other, such as public transport, by bicycle or by walking, which contributes in many ways to upgrading the quality of life in the cities, so on the three-way "walk-mobile-public transport", as is done throughout Europe. This draft law mentions once the word 'bicycle' and sometimes the word 'walk'. The main problem is that the bill is effectively governed by the need to speed up the procedures for the creation of a SVAK by bypassing urban and spatial planning, i.e. by repeating the errors of the "Great Walk" characterised by fragmented "study work". In the same context, the footage of the Athens Municipal Authority for the integration of the triangle "Museum - Tositsa - Lofos Strefi", which clearly attempts to "regenerate" the region, "gentrification", such as the international term, a practice that effectively drives out the old inhabitants by increasing the prices of rents and living costs in general. Already, they have seen the light of publicity the plans for regeneration of Strefe through a privately controversial company, which in practice turn the public space into a sterile park for high-valves. We believe that sustainable mobility and micro-mobility policies should be a comprehensive green transition plan for our cities with policies for the development of bicycles, public transport and public spaces and greenery, principles that are virtually missing from the bill. The bill, furthermore, is in complete contrast with what was announced by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure with the presence of the Prime Minister on 3 February this year, 2021, as the axes of a 10-year strategic plan 2021-2030 on road safety, with the aim of reducing by 50% the deaths and traffic injuries. Let us stress that the communication proclamation, the communication "firework" that the government made for a thirty-km speed limit in residential areas, is not implemented by today's draft law and is in complete contrast with that. Reconfirms the 50 km limit with funny consequences for those who violate it, 40 euros fine if someone runs seventy miles an hour in residential areas. If a cyclist or user of a Light Personal Electric Vehicle, EPE, is involved in a collision with a vehicle that travels 50 km an hour, has 90% chance of losing his life, while if the speed of the vehicle was thirty kilometers, this possibility is reduced to 10%, as studies have shown by the global scientific community. In a country where the increase in the number of motor vehicles is versatile, from about two million in 1985 to five million in 2000 and eight million in 2018, in a country which has a pan-European top position in the number of road collisions, deaths and injuries, which is shameful, in a country which is separating the networks of motorised and non-motorised traffic, in a country which, in total contrast with other European countries, refuses to establish the thirty-kilometre speed limit in residential areas, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure feels it is right and safe to introduce the users of these Light Electric Vehicles, i.e. skates, wheeled motor vehicles, caravans and self-balanced personal vehicles on the traffic network. This part of the draft law is a real "bomb" for road safety, which will have victims mainly of the users of these EPOs. You know that all these deaths and all these tragedies will happen, but you do not prevent them, because you are actually putting the profit even above the lives of children and the weak. We wonder if those who write the laws have driven, not a bike, but even an IX, or if all their lives are seated on the back right seat of a limo. Furthermore, the use of helmets for users of Light Personal Electric Vehicles, but also for cyclists, must be mandatory, as in all European States and not by recommendation, as laid down in this draft law in Article 18(9). And I come to the illegal double-sided billboards of the city that are intended to attract the look and interest of drivers and which, you ads, distract from the street, which is extremely dangerous. No one will leave his car to use a bike, a skateboard or a wheelboard, but it will take "armoured" to protect it. It is obvious that for you the bike is nothing but a moment of carelessness and walking in Tatoi or elsewhere, and for many others the student, the part-time worker, the immigrant is his real means of transport. What kind and what kind of quality do you want? What quality of life do you ask when cars or bicycles park on sidewalks and make it difficult for our fellow people to move with disabilities or even every pedestrian or to park on ramps or at places special to disabled people without effective punishment? All of this is your political position, which is contrary to the objective of the CVA and therefore contrary to the interests of society and the environment in general. You are basically supporting large companies whether they are called automotive or fossil fuel companies and not the interests of millions of citizens by undermining the environment, public health and public welfare first of all. We, Mera25 as the Greek arm of Diem25, the unique international front for democracy in Europe in line with the European standards regarding the CVA, are also calling for a minimum percentage of green per inhabitant in the cities, for the use of bicycles in our country to be introduced, but not alongside motor vehicles, for pollutants and noise to be reduced, and for the development of public transport networks which all go hand in hand - with public health and prosperity. In conclusion, Mr Minister, may I stress that both the Prime Minister from Crete and you, the Minister from Crete and his dear colleague, Coordinator, Mr Sedetakis from Crete, why don't we put a bet, a vision of zero for Crete, for Greece all? And don't tell us it's hard. I will say the words of Kazantzakis again: 'Get where you can't!'. There is also a similar expression in Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u91	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement to make. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs shall submit its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of the Council of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union’s own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and other provisions’. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Starting with, I believe we must wish for a rapid recovery to the police, who suffered an unprecedented barbaric attack on a herd of beasts who acted like hyenas and jackals having the prey wounded on the floor. Angelos, twenty-six, twenty-seven-year-old Seraios from Sidirokastro from an acronym region, came to Athens to get 800 euros a month. Instead of "Greek" - with little change and in introductory form - he suffered what he suffered. So we wish him all speedy recovery. And I will start with something he had said and wrote: "The insanity of individuals is relatively rare, but in groups, parties, nations is rather a norm." So yesterday, in two or four hours' time, a political system in paranoia, people of Greeks in paranoia conducive to each other and intertwin each other. If this is what we are satisfied with as a Greek Parliament, we would like to distance ourselves from and be across, because today that we are talking about Greece is really bleeding socially and politically. Greece is bleeding with Turkey. Greece is bleeding with Skopje if you want, it is bleeding with the pandemic, it is bleeding as a bankrupt country that has no real future or tomorrow, it is bleeding with homeless Greeks. We're bleeding every day as a nation, as a state with demographics, we're bleeding from the mistakes made by all governments and they didn't fix them and instead of uniting, you're all divising and I'll prove it to you one by one. What unites you all here in Parliament, apart from us who are clear about our position? All parties are in favour of the incarceration of the Greeks and of the vaccine. All of it! You're all in favour of closing the churches. I heard nothing from either one of you when the churches closed when they arrested faithful even priests. All parties, your leaders went and were vaccinated as sheep first. All parties were in favour of not making parades so that the Greeks would not conspire and not stick the tank Leopard to the krone jeep. Gentlemen of the Left, I'm starting with you. I really blame you. I blame you for terrorizing the world with the government for the vaccine and pandemic when you yourself do not observe the law, but also for the distances. I blame you for talking about compulsory all of you, indirectly or directly. I accuse you of saying what they are basically all saying, that it is transmitted to the assembly and to the meetings. But I blame you on going to the protests. The same 17 November went to marches, you yourselves go to marches, you break the law, you yourself, you who speak of legitimacy for all other Greeks, and their incarceration, you violate the law. I accuse you of going down yourself, you give the wrong message to the Greek people that they are the non-preferentials and all the others if they are left-wing, and they can meet and can gather and do what they want. I accuse you that yesterday your own people, after undermining these mobilizations, meetings in Nea Smyrna, beat a Greek, any Greek. I also accuse you that your people saw Virgin Mary and they were possessed and broke a picture of Virgin Mary, because a poor guy went along with these people, if people are told your three, four thousand in New Smyrna to protest by terrorizing the inhabitants. I accuse you of Members of the Greek Parliament - here we are - going to universities and defend the occupation, the illegal occupation. Because the illegal occupation is the occupation at a university, at the Aristotle University, and they went to MPs, they didn't go to civilians. I blame you for that, too. I blame you for what you're saying. What do you mean, organised indiscipline? I have heard a Member of Parliament say 'organised indiscipline'. This is anarchy, gentlemen. What message do we send to the Greek people when we talk about organised disciplinary action? Then make the rest of us organized indiscipline, parade, go to congregations, go to the streets. No, we're either all gonna keep the law or you're not just gonna violate it by some. Clearly things to prevent the New Democracy from enforcing law and order by authoritarianity. Let's get this straight. One.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u93	Why aren't you wearing a mask?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u94	Here? Should I wear a mask here in Stepma?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u95	The church.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u96	Where out? Listen, Mr Colleague, because the provocation I know better than you do the mask than I do, and let me disagree. Understood? I disagree with the mask, I wear it. But you and your party, SYRIZA, while you tell the Greek not to go to church, go to the rallys and gatherings. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Don't give me any hints. Some of you are fond of the gatherings. Don't give me any hints. I therefore blame you personally, Mr President, and your party. When the Prespes rally was being held and tearing the tear gas into the six-year-olds, was police violence better? When you beat people up at Prespes and at Thessaloniki's rally was it better then? Was it another violence? Was the violence of roses, flowers and flowers? What kind of violence was she? But in the six-year-old who was crying out of the cops' woods and clubs and the tear gas, I didn't see you complain. The violence, gentlemen, whether left or right, or centre, is violence and leave hypocrisy in here "we condemn the incidents" when two days were pushing people to go where they went and we knew there would be para-states among them who would cause problems. So let's go to New Democracy too. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I accuse you of being in favor of the incarceration of the Greeks. I accuse you of sharing fines to the Greeks, but you do not impose order and you freely allow the Left to make marches, to make gatherings without any fine, without any punishment. I blame you for being in favour of authoritarianity against the Greeks. You use the police against the Greeks in a barbaric way. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, unable to send a political message, use the cops. It's a disgrace! I blame you for talking about unity. The Greek Prime Minister came out yesterday and made a dictionary. I'll ask him this. Did the Greek Prime Minister, the Prime Minister who gave the signal to those who disagree with the vaccine, have them sprayed, splitting the Greeks? His word is split today by the Prime Minister of the country! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I accuse you of letting the left-wing protests, the false left-wing, the para-staters who enter the gatherings, the ones who break up the concentrations, which are linked to the para-state mechanisms, because you cannot impose order, because you do not have the capacity and the power to say the great 'no'. I accuse you of being helpless to rule, and since you cannot rule, go to elections to save the place, to end the story. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You all agree, gentlemen, with SYRIZA and the New Democracy. You agree to Skopje, you agree to The Hague. You agree on the issue of illegal immigrants and supposedly found a glorious field to disagree. Where do you disagree? In the police at the universities, in these flawless para-states, we'll be dead if you both continue to provoke. You take advantage of it by disorientating the world, because you are addressing your party audience. You are addressing 45% of the Greeks who vote and I am ashamed to say so, Minister. Can the Prime Minister address only those who voted for a New Democracy, SYRIZA address only those who voted for SYRIZA and leave 55% of the peaceful people of Nea Smyrna at the mercy of partyism, even the spontaneous concentration of residents? Because the sign you give and the signal you signal is the partisanization. You agree on everything, really on everything. And you disagree with what? You tell me where SYRIZA disagrees with the New Democracy, we can finally talk politically at home. Not fighting about the tree and losing the forest. Where do the two parties disagree? In the economy, in the nationalities, in society? Where do you disagree? Tell me at last, let the Greek people hear the truth. Nowhere! Do you disagree about Erdogan having a party with The Hague? Unfortunately, you are inciting violence. What do you want? Dead? What are you looking for? What are you all asking for at last as a political system? You're all hypocrites. The New Democracy is both with the Officer and the ranger. So is SYRIZA. We saw it in the Prespes. While it was a government, they beat the world. Now that it's counterpopulation, people are yelling at people, people are yelling at people, people are using the police to beat the world, they're yelling at the Prespes that the SYRIZA police beat the world. Floods! Hypocrisy runs out, I honestly say it. You want to prove unity? I'll tell you now. Do you want us to prove unity against the barbarians, the parastates who did what they did yesterday? And you see, I'm not saying they're party people who did the episodes. I call them the para-state mechanisms used by all governments since '74 and break the resistance of the people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's actually go. Cancel Friday, not to ask Mr. Tsipras, not to throw oil into the fire. Cancel it. I appeal to Mr. Tsipras. If he wants to go see the prime minister talk to each other. Don't come here and fire oil. Society is boasting, society is boiling, because at the time they interact Greeks and kill each other in the squares of Nea Smyrni or anywhere in the squares of Athens, Greeks in Mesochori and in Damasi, there are in the Prefecture of Larissa, children! Mr. Tsipras went and saw them with his eyes. The Prime Minister didn't go, Mr. Petsas went. Now that we're talking in here, there's Greeks who, minus four points in Larissa, sleep in 30-year-old tents in a caravans' room. They sent thirty caravans twenty-five years old. At the same time, they send wheelchairs to the next village that has a structure of illegal immigrants. And the Greek taxpayer sees that. If we send wheelchairs to the structures of illegal immigrants, we must primarily send wheelchairs to the Greeks of Larissa. First Greece. First the Greeks! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] For the Greek Solution, ladies and gentlemen, the squares join together. For us, the square must unite. In the past, we had the coffee cups, all the Greeks gathered and discussed with each other, disagreed, arguing, but they talked. Because the New Democracy and SYRIZA have achieved this square must bleed, whatever square. But the blood from the haematoma is Greek. Do not allow Greek blood to be spilled, to interact Greeks from the absence of a serious policy. Understood. What do we say? We say no to the division of the Greeks from wherever it comes. Oh, no! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Not in the hypocrisy of politicians who, when they are government, beat the Greek and when they are opposition complain that the Greek is being beaten. Not in the absence of substantial proposals. What do you say? Yes to unity, yes to honesty, yes to reason, to reason. The incarcerated Greek boils. He's gonna get out on the road again. We will have scenes in 2008, 2009, 2012, with para-states who will use the protests and shed blood. Protect the Greek and Greece. We must be united, ladies and gentlemen. Erdogan - and I'm closing here - he's no longer playing. If we don't figure it out, it'll be too late. Let's just leave the parties out of controversy. Let's look at what unites us. Let's look at how we can connect logic with each other. Let us look at showing the Greek citizens that they can go out and protest, with precautions, with precautions, can shout against the authoritarian, authoritarian measures of the New Democracy. Yes, I agree with that, but we must also allow him to go to church to light a candle. Temperature, the widow should go and light a candle on her apologies to her husband. To be fair. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We must also send a message on 25 March that the law and order are beginning with Parliament. The unity begins here and spreads over all the lengths and backs, from Evros to Cyprus, because Cyprus is Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, on our own we can do so little, very little for each other. Together we can do everything and so much. Together for Greece, together for the Greeks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Now we're going to the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Stamenitis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I begin my position, I would like to say a few words about what is happening these days. Last year, the pandemic crisis has been testing all of us's strengths. Society is admittedly and rightly found at a border point. The debt of all our political forces, all of us, is to support the effort of Greek citizens to defend unity. The Greek society is much more mature than those who want to be presented as its absolute expressions. The Prime Minister, the Government, we, the Members of the New Democracy, are here to protect society and the citizens, but also to guarantee unity, to do what the Greek people have chosen us and have honoured us with their vote in the elections of 7 July 2019. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, I won't say anything. I think Mr. Panagulis, former SYRIZA MEP, has said it all. The draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which is being discussed today, is an important legislative initiative to regulate all issues relating to mobility and micromobility in the urban fabric. Most of the bill is a result of social needs, which, over time, are either differentiated or increased. The way we move in towns, as well as the modern model of living, by themselves create new data. Today, when we talk about moving, we are not only confined to motor vehicles, which in the past decade almost completely occupied the field of mobility and traffic. In view of the new circumstances, therefore, the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport brings to the vote a set of arrangements that will address the problems and respond to current challenges. And how does he try to achieve this? Legislation on the basis of social, economic and environmental criteria and using international practices, as well as specialized and modern design models. With the focus of human beings, the upgrading of the quality of everyday life, accessibility and environmental protection, the model of sustainable urban mobility projects is established. By abolishing the legislation of SYRIZA, which became incomplete due to the failure to adopt the joint ministerial decision because we had an election on July 7, the Ministry's current leadership introduces provisions that effectively address the imperfections of the previous law, as issues related to the preparation of the SPAs' examination, approval and follow-up are regulated. In short, it is developing and completing the legislative framework so that it can respond to the needs that have been created, but also to developments that have been initiated. Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, as analysed in committee meetings as well as today, ensure the sustainability of urban transport within the scope of the ATTs and contribute substantially to the promotion of microcirculation, improving road safety, facilitating and strengthening electricity mobility, developing intelligent mobility systems. Finally, very importantly, they ensure that the accessibility of disabled people is improved. Therefore, the CVAs are established and an obligation is created on ATOs of more than thirty thousand inhabitants and on ATOs B grades to design and present a framework for organised safe and environmentally friendly mobility of citizens. To this end, a single system of rules with specific requirements and specifications, based on the guidelines of the ELTIS Observatory, is established in order to assess and approve urban mobility projects. It is worth noting that all these objectives are set at a later stage since, however, the stakeholders concerned have been consulted and citizens themselves have been consulted. At the same time, the draft law also regulates and organizes the presence of non-engine vehicles, which have been introduced to a large extent as one of the traffic options within towns. And I'm referring to the vehicles that the bill calls EPO. An extremely important initiative in my view, as we can say that today we have, if not an anarchist, but an unorganised framework for the circulation of these instruments. Microkinesis is in our lives. In fact, in many cases it highlights as a key factor in upgrading the city's quality of life and everyday life. In this context, therefore, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport attempts to create a favourable framework, with a key objective of modernising the micro-mobility sector in towns. These aims are aimed at achieving them through grouping these vehicles into a category, as I mentioned above, EPA, with specific features, regulating the rules for the safe use of these vehicles, the specific framework created for professionals who make use of the EPAs to carry out their work tasks, the description of the obligations of the user of this vehicle, as well as local self-government measures to regulate traffic, as well as the organised parking. As a result, we are almost certain that we are able to create better conditions of traffic, improve road safety and, of course, achieve significant environmental reductions. In addition, the bill includes provisions for harmonising Greek legislation with the Directive of the European Parliament 6645/2018 on improving the level of training of professional drivers by using tools of technology, information and communications, as well as arrangements on passenger and freight transport and driving licences. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have before us a legislative initiative that clearly demonstrates the importance of the government, the Minister, the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on the issues of microcirculation and sustainable mobility, as it brings about a separate piece of legislation that regulates, organises and regulates all the issues relating to this part. It does not select the dispersed legislation on a case-by-case basis, but presents and institutionalises an overall planning for urban mobility. It turns out in this case that the government chooses to use all modern tools to regulate issues of public life. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that despite possible disagreements that may exist and may be discussed both in committee and in plenary today, this draft law can be passed with the greatest possible consensus of Parliament's political forces. And I invite you to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have all started - I heard the introductory speeches - from an overall condemnation of violence, beatings, tensions, fighting in society. We must, however, say something more to help the debate that is taking place within our society. After expressing our support and our support for the injured police officer yesterday and the absolute condemnation of this violence, we must tell everyone who is probably and there that violence is not an answer to the violence. On the contrary, violence justifies violence and often multiplys it. I hope, Minister, that you, too, will agree. Because we saw conditions unbelievable in Nea Smyrna during the night, chasing civilians in the narrow by police forces uncontrollably, with faintings and threats to life, on the occasion of a condemnable event. We've made that clear. I think, however, that if we want to take a step further, and if we agree that violence creates violence and we obviously condemn violence, because it is not justified by new violence, we must say that the Prime Minister's intervention yesterday is inadequate and I would say that it is also divided. Instead of intervening in a timely, preventive way, that is, as the political people do, in recognition of beatings, unnecessarily police violence, these incidents of behaviour by authoritarianism and oppression, with the political responsibility of Mr Chrysochoidis, left the situation to evolve badly and came back to tell us that society should not be divided. But who let her split? Who has allowed violence to develop? Why did he not come out immediately to ask for Mr Chrysochide's resignation as soon as the incidents took place in Nea Smyrni Square, the first with him, if you like, unjust beating the citizens, who had just come out in the quarantine to take their walk with their families? And then he came back to tell us what? That it's who's to blame? What is the responsibility of the society that violence creates, but which he himself has caused and spurned. Here, then, we must say in advance that policy works by prevention. If we want to act with prevention, we are calling for the resignation of Mr Chrysochoidis and for the Prime Minister to take responsibility for the whole of society, for all incidents and democracy. That's what we want to do. We also want to contribute to this. Because our democracy and the health of our citizens are of concern to us all. But all of our fellow people, not only the injured yesterday's police officer, but also the civilians, who have unfortunately been beaten up on the square two days earlier. Only in this way will we overcome the problems, not with one another, colleagues. I beg your pardon, Madam President, but, as you can see, the question of democracy is a serious one and we cannot stand by it. We're going to the subject we're talking about today. Minister, we have also discussed committees and I hope that there was a dialectical relationship between the debate, from what you have subsequently recognised, on an issue relating to mobility, on quality of life and on policies on traffic, but also on climate. Our rapporteur and all SYRIZA Members have said so. I would like to start with this because we have mentioned an incomplete reading that we have seen. We also put forward our proposal, so that this reading is not a deficit, not to overthrow the design of, for example, the SBAKs, Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, but to complete it. Because our society has two very big issues: the mitigating of carbon dioxide emissions, to deal with the climate crisis and the adaptation of our societies to climate change, so that our societies are also sustainable. We see that you are dealing with many tools of technical design unilaterally. That is, mobility is not seen in the context of, for example, quality of life, spatial planning and climate crisis. You only see her as a traffic tool. Also, in the field of adaptation and planning, we are too late. I would therefore like to point out to you that we cannot talk about the response of modern Greek society to the climate crisis and we should not have for three years the climate change adaptation plans, which we have legislated, financed and the regions should have completed. Because now we do not know on what criteria pedestrians, motorways and port projects, sewerage, all the projects and all the functions of our country's economy will be planned. One topic, therefore, that you must speed up, and I say this to you because it affects the design, Mr Kefalayannis, of all road infrastructure and transport, is the plans for adaptation to climate change, and the second is the environmental parameter, which is both spatial planning and biodiversity. While Europe has agreed to 'Green Deal', and even the European People's Party has moved on to such changes, we see that in Greece we are constantly taking steps backwards with regard to environmental policy. In other words, we have reached a point in legislating to ensure that Mr Adonis Georgiadis places activities in the NATURA areas and that the directive of the European Union on biodiversity which has been in force since 1992 does not apply. There are many other things that lead us to the European Court of Justice on many issues, such as scandals in recycling, such as, if you like, an illegal 'ELLENIC FRUYS' convention which we will ask today by violating the competence of your ministers and issues of his infidelity are born of it, but above all at the expense of the environment. While Europe goes on to say that biodiversity is a basic criterion, climate is a basic criterion, the principle of non- harm to the environment is a basic criterion of policies, you are taking steps backwards and in the environment and in politics. Instead of us having a debate about what the productive model is, what the functioning of society is and what mobility plans are and how we plan, you say we do a traffic study. We need more than that. We have told you all about it and all our rapporteurs have said it. I would also like to point out that you are making the same mistakes in the electricity projects, so that the Commission will now come and confirm SYRIZA's criticism. What does the Commission now say in commenting on the Recovery Fund? It speaks of priority for electricity supply in public transport, priority in fixed tracks, priority in charging plans for the municipalities, and then how some rich people get an expensive electric car. Because the important thing is to get those who don't have an electric car. In all this, then, we are clearly telling you that we financed the sixty-two-two of the Green Fund, we took initiatives together with the Ministry of Infrastructure in the Government of SYRIZA, but we acknowledged that the issue of traffic planning is being extended to all issues of quality of life, namely both pedestrians and pedestrians and the climate of cities and the pollution of the atmosphere and we asked for this to be done by your own government. And since the rapporteur has asked you some questions if our legislation has provided for the cooperation of the Ministries, I see here, Mr President, Article 22 of Law 4599 on the Environment Ministry and on the subject of what the CVA contains, and on the subject of ministerial decisions laying down its specifications and the subject of authorisations. So, please, for the consistency of the debate, I would like to make it clear that we do not have a competitive approach to these issues when we have to find solutions. So we tell you to come the Ministry of Environment and Energy to take his role in your Government. Not only will it be a Ministry of Rifle and Privatization and Precision. Because that's what you got to be. And indeed we can, Mr Kefaliannis, contribute to the introduction and the spatial planning that you have underestimated to make even better the work that we have started and done. It is not possible, in other words, to delay local town planning projects now in all municipalities because you are looking to find out who is responsible and not to accept to discuss how SBAs are combined with spatial planning. That's what we want to do. Because we see you leave things behind. And I'm closing, Madam President. That is why you have either non-scientific approaches and that makes us impression - you have left behind both science, European knowledge and innovation, both in the climate and in the SBAKs - or a communication approach to everything. Evidence is the "Great Walk" of Athens. Was it finally the innovative intervention that improves the city and has the climate, and participation, and traffic, or was it a soap bubble that exploded and possibly at a very high cost for the municipality's finances? Look at it now you who live next door. So we note that neither science should be forgotten nor communication your priority, because this leads to a proper tool such as the CVA, which we participated, upgraded, we want to do so with you, in a tool for simply reading traffic parameters. We do not want to do so, Mr Kefaliannis, because we believe that this intervention should be improved. I hope that we have contributed to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u101	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u102	Madam President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u103	About what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u104	It's related to what he asked me. We raised a matter for the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u105	Did he ask you now from his speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u106	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u107	I thought at the time he was talking, no one's asking in the Chamber, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u108	Let me clarify something to Mr. Femello.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u109	Please. I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u110	It's personal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u111	There is no staff, Mr. Comrade. Please very much. He made a speech. We will not open a debate now with each speaker from the seat. You have no say, Mr Colleague. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, today it is no longer enough to condemn the attack, the injury of the police officer or violence for any reason. The citizens, who experience the hard things, see the figures with the deaths, the perpetrators and the cases growing, do not hear any convincing excuses for what is happening and above all for the barren confrontation between the government and the Civicism. It is imperative that we stop this theater of irrationality. To stop any action that provokes or fuels confrontation, acidification and the challenge of violent action. To isolate all those who are supportive of violence in a few words, because they are provoking it and seeking it. I would say that the pandemic, unfortunately, has not affected the thought of some and, above all, the actions, and it really gives us an opportunity to think about tomorrow in a different way. The need for a new vision for the world as a whole, for Europe, for our country, for sustainable and human-centered progress. That is where we must concentrate and not increase the problems, which, unfortunately, will make people's lives even more difficult. Policies must now also be integrated in the area of sustainable urban mobility that we are discussing. A comprehensive design is needed without fragmentary approaches. It has been said before that a number of things have happened in the past. Yeah, it's done. It's happening now. Well, this is not an integrated development plan. Not all of this forms part of the overall view of local and regional development, urban development and rural development. They're not cohesive parts. They are individual political, good ideas, opinions, technocratic solutions, but they are not a plan and much more they do not ensure that they go ahead. Because they are issues that have to do with funding, with monitoring, with the implementation of policies and actions. In this context, I think that the most critical issues, apart from securing resources, are the rules, transparency and simplified procedures. Unfortunately, the issues are addressed indefinitely in the future, in the adoption of ministerial decisions. The GPAs are grades 1 and 2, but must be integrated into the process and civil society. Every club and body that speaks of development and local and regional things, such as the representatives of disabled people to ensure accessibility that is a critical factor. Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are in direct connection, of course, with micromobility, which is a link in improving the quality of life of citizens, in the general quality of our culture, in protecting the environment. Particular attention must be paid to pedestrian traffic, bicycle, Light Personal Electric Vehicles, but also to the functionality of public transport, public transport, so that they are accessible to everyone safely. Rules and conditions are needed because in large urban centres the situation is more than problematic. The absence of an institutional framework for the circulation of VOCs, such as the Arctic now, often leads to accidents and unregulated circulation. Your attempt to have an institutional framework is not complete, as I said before, and so it is at the moment. I remind you that the Change Movement and I personally from September 2019 raised the issue and committed you then that in two to four months we would have a ready frame. Unfortunately, it didn't happen, it was too late. But the delay should have been in the interest of an integrated study, which does not exist. There are two crucial issues. The first concerns the lack of infrastructure and the difficulty, of course, of developing pedestrian and VOC traffic zones, especially in old towns with urban plans. It would be preferable for the state and bodies, municipalities and regions to make their own space of traffic in specific and practical ways, not for a window. The second issue concerns the road safety that we have put in you and then, which must be ensured and not done, safety for all drivers, users and pedestrians, especially if they are children, elderly or disabled, because we have a deficit in law, education and traffic education. The rules on age and speed limits need, in our view, a review of our rapporteur. Provisions which do not ensure the safety and traffic of drivers and pedestrians should be amended and added. The helmet must be mandatory when the media circulates on the road, how many times will we say it? When he's on the road network, it's like he's a motorcycle, he's doing the same thing. At the drop at a short speed, the helmet saves. Besides, at very high speeds, it may not save. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to testify in the Minutes a 1955 bicycle rental licence. My father performed the activity of rental bicycles sixty - five years ago. Then there was a record of business bikes. Currently, for electric vehicles or bicycles rented, it is not foreseen that they will be registered in an electronic register in the municipality or in the region, have their number, that they will not be insured. So, an accident that's going to happen to a child? A tourist or anyone renting or getting to use such a vehicle causes a serious injury. Who's responsible? Do you take responsibility? Do you think there are no such serious accidents? We therefore want this to be anticipated. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] See also age limits because it is problematic to drive a child 12 and 15 years of age without having the appropriate education, without having the appropriate qualification. I conclude with the equivalences after saying that we agree with the inclusion of these functions on issues relating to qualification. However, more training is needed for professional drivers as well and a further part of a cognitive subject is needed, but it cannot be considered on uncertified vehicles. Minister, this is a mistake. It cannot be considered in the private vehicle. You had denounced the previous government when Spirji had brought that bill that he did the same and now you bring it? Don't you remember your criticism?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u113	And finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u114	And I conclude by saying that it is wrong for us that the equivalence is made. Equivalence with different things does not exist. Apples and oranges are different things, not summed up. This is not equivalent to the knowledge you have on a four-wheeled vehicle that does not need balance with a two-wheeled vehicle that needs balance, specific training and experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u115	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u116	So we do not agree with these provisions, and we believe that there should be more education and certification in all the categories in relation to what the bill provides for. Our proposals have been tabled and we believe that if these provisions are improved it will be of benefit. Otherwise it will cause more problems than there were no problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u118	It cannot be the only criterion, because the importers and the sellers are asking for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Comrade, please! I've made you ten times a remark. Please don't you pay attention to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u122	I came up on the Step and said something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u123	What did you say, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u124	That we are going to speak a speaker less and less accordingly...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u125	This has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure of the House, Mr President. You're not changing the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u126	Keep it to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u127	I respect it all, Mr. Comrade. You spoke more than anyone. You know that very well. The Minister for the Environment and Energy now has the floor, Mr Screkas, on the amendments he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say a few words to the Members, the Members present today, for an amendment with a general number of 788 and a special 18. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is determined to give a solution to the chronic problem of waste management in our country. And in order to achieve this, beyond the construction and operation of the necessary infrastructure, there must be a great deal of action both at organisational level, but also with regard to the important areas that we have to go through in legislation. I would like to tell you that some important first steps have already been taken, such as the adoption of the New National Waste Management Plan of the ECHR, and I would also like to stress that it has come out very recently in public consultation and the National Waste Prevention Plan as well as the action plan on the circular economy. Here, too, I would like to point out that, following European legislation's forecasts, we are focusing not only on recycling, but also on taking a step forward, namely the hierarchy of waste management methods. To achieve this, we have already legislated for banning the supply and progressive use of disposable plastics to the general government bodies. It's about the so-called paper plates. I say it so much because they are plasticized, as you know. The hospitals, of course, are not excluded. So, with this amendment, 788 with a special number of 18, we have to postpone this measure for reasonable reasons with regard to hospitals and primary health care structures, bearing in mind that because of the pandemic, there is a strong need to use disposable devices in hospitals. We must also say that, of course, because of the coronary and this situation, the alternatives available in time for hospitals have not yet been available. So we're giving this little postponement. It's limited in time. It expires on 3 July 2021 when the trade in these kinds is universally prohibited throughout the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u130	Madam President, may I ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u131	You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u132	Minister, just to understand it - we have not yet taken the amendment, but we will probably comment on it later - apart from the time you described it will be in the materials and bodies by July. So you're only referring to these agencies, because you referred to hospitals. Now, orally you explain it to us. I guess we'll see it in writing. Please tell us what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u133	Primary health structures and hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u134	Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the grand gathering yesterday in New Smyrna, the slogans were against repression and measures to protect the health of life and the rights of the people. The public health system has reached its limit and you, instead of overseeing the private sector, hire doctors and nurses, check the workplaces covering cases, which are not tracing, and do not thicken the routes, and the coronary is transported and transmitted everywhere, what are you doing? You hire staff for repression forces to beat people into the squares, strikes, protests. Many have attempted with terrorism and repression to put the working people's movement on the plaster, but they have not succeeded. And there are many dead working class from state violence and repression. But this can't stop the class struggle. We've said it many times. The labour movement organised, disciplined, develops its action on modern needs in forms of struggle that it decides itself. It puts it against the provocative mechanisms and combats state and employers' terrorism. The government has to stop the zero tolerance line, the 'law and order' line, which, on the basis of this, implements the operational planning of the repression forces and even beats anyone who speaks up. The answer, of course, to the anger of the people is what? He'll do the SAD. The government's responsibility for developments is great. The policies pursued are the causes of the major problems, the deadlock for the majority of the working people's families. The capitalist crisis from 2008 until now, with a small break of anaemic recovery, has been loaded to the backs of the people, exacerbating all living conditions. A year ago, with pandemic as a pretext, instead of prioritising health, life and rights, the government promotes the realisation of all the choices of big capital and the requirements for new areas of profitability. The whole legislative work confirms it. One area is transport. Movement to and from work, from and from various business services to affairs settlements every day millions in towns. This is not treated with the IX ban, when you refuse to strengthen public transport. This is not treated with the enhancement of bicycles, machines or skates. Truly, urban planning is bourgeois, is coming to satisfy the people's need to improve the quality of life, the mobility, the free time savings? Do not tell us that you are interested in the environment, because you in a previous law predicted the maintenance of old vehicles, which were to be withdrawn at the end of 2020. You have all supported the policy of depreciation and the concession of the transport project to private individuals. In this context refuse to take those measures to improve the conditions for the movement of people who go to work in Athens, Thessaloniki in the middle of a pandemic. You have not taken the slightest measure on the necessary pavement of routes and you have not heard any of the workers' proposals, which would improve the situation, such as repairing the buses that are stopped by minor damage. Within one month, if, Minister, the required supply of spare parts and materials, according to the workers, can be repaired at least one hundred more seventy buses and be added to the fleet of about nine hundred now carrying out the transport project of the Lecanopter. In order to ensure reliable and secure transport, some five hundred buses and trolleybuses must be launched on a daily basis, along with the strengthening of the metro and tram network, and, of course, the recruitment of staff. More and more coronary cases are recorded, Minister, to urban transport workers other than passengers. One worker has died of a coronary and another is now hospitalized, while cases are increased daily. All data indicates that the media are moving an outbreak of coronary hypertransmission. Passengers and workers are exposed to the risk of sticking and becoming unwitting carriers to thousands of others. Since the beginning of the pandemic for a year now, the Government and the administrations of OSH and OSH have not taken any substantial measures to curb the routes and avoid crowding, to completely isolation the driver's position, for the daily disinfection of vehicles and workplaces, for the recruitment of the necessary number of permanent staff, for the repair of the immovable property, due to damage, fleet and the purchase of new, modern vehicles and trains, for the exploitation of the mobile unit of OSH, for mass, regular, repeated molecular tests for all personnel, for the purpose of obtaining all private vehicles, KES and tourists, as long as the pandemic lasts. As far as urban transport is concerned, the main part of urban planning - the policy implemented is not only covering, but suffering and presenting risks to workers and the people. Especially at this time, which is going through the third wave of pandemic, transport has been transformed into supertransmission, and the government is doing nothing about serious shortages in equipment and personnel. According to official figures, Minister, three thousand five hundred and seventy employees worked in 2009 on the fixed tracks in 2010 and in 2010 they received two thousand four hundred sixty-five, that is, 31% reduction. There are trains that are inoperative and are not repaired. The power station has forty-five trains, but only nineteen are available. The shortages in spare parts and staff, zero funding is washed by the people every day. And the government has as a solution the involvement of individuals, which will only make transport accurate for the people. The problem is that transport, like other sectors, of course - energy, health and education - operates on private economic criteria and not to serve the needs of the people. The JRC has repeatedly said its proposal, that meeting these combined people's needs for universal, quality, safe and cheap transport and transport, requires means and infrastructure that operate as social property and not as the ownership of some monopolistic groups. This situation must be overthrown and the people will be struggling anyway for this course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President, for keeping time. Mr Syrigos, State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, has the floor now to be placed on his amendment for two minutes. Here, Mr. Syrigos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, I will say that an amendment has been tabled to extend the cleaning contract of the University of Patras. The cleaning contracts shall expire from 1 March to 31 March. Their renewal process has already begun. However, as we do not have time to get through the procedures, this is why an extension is given until 31 May, so that we can, in the middle of a coronary, not stay the University at all without cleaning services.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Unfortunately a few days after the adoption of the draft public procurement law, we still have a legislative arrangement for extending existing contracts by way of derogation from the provisions. Just, Minister, because the University of Patras has recently taken the lead, with the Committee on Strategic Planning, in its transition, blocking areas such as the Ilias Prefecture, I would like to ask you, in addition to the strategies, which isolated whole regions from the country's academic map, that the University of Patras should also deal with procedural matters and not be forced to come to the House with such amendments as we understand the necessity, obviously we will vote for it, but I think they are not in favour of the university or the head of the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Pappas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Unfortunately, we saw scenes hideous last night. And I'm referring to the cop's beating scene, who was down on the roadside, and there were people who kicked him in the head. They are condemned, they are acts of appalling nature, acts of flattering and morality and, of course, criminality. And we take no distances, but we state very clearly that we are against, structurally, such behaviour. Unfortunately, however, politically appalling is the attempt made by the government to identify the massive, palliative, I would say to you, mobilisation made in Nea Smyrna, with such kinds of incidents. That's the political disgusting thing. And if you have any doubts, take a walk to Nea Smyrna to understand what's going on in society too. If you are trying to identify all this world, which has come down to protest about the incidents of police violence, with the appalling practice of a minority, condemned by all of us, you are on a very wrong track and an account will come to you that will surprise you. Don't do that. The Deputy Prime Minister did so as well, accusing the party of Officerial Opposition today. It's a slippery street, you know. And Mr Mitsotakis himself did so, who, in a divisive dictionary, did not make the slightest effort to express part, not to enter into dialogue, but to show that he perceives the struggles of the world that rose up and mobilized. And that's painful. He's the architect of the division. He's the main automobile. And it's not in New Smyrna's events, where we saw after night, of course, in the sight of retaliation for the horrific incident of the police officer's beating, to go to the pile and collect and beat people for no reason. The leadership of the Ministry of Public Order must be shown to tell us if he is satisfied with the group "Actions", so. Or will he hide behind the trade unionists of special guards who are pouring up a load of nonsense on TV windows? The leadership of the Ministry of Public Order will appear anywhere to answer business issues, not workers' rights, which is the role of the trade union. Why are they hiding? Who's gonna answer these incidents? Mr. Kefaliannis, I would ask you to withdraw the assessment that what happened in Nea Smyrna seemed to happen. Excuse me, but I live in Nea Smyrna and anything but a cauldron that boils in the area. There was nothing like that. The boiling cassane happened with the events of the day before yesterday. So what did the world do? There he walks, has mild recreation, and we had the incident that caused these chain reactions. This, however, is the result of a course, a continuous that started by the invasions of the cinemas to prevent the film "Joker" from seeing the fifteen-year-olds and went to the duo at the house of Mr. Indarre, in the episodes of Hallandri, in Agia Paraskevi, in Nea Smyrni and, of course, in the attempt to have huge escalation in Thessaloniki last night. And you forsake us for being identified with the university community and we asked for no escalation. Don't laugh. Something's going on in this society. All parties in democratic opposition understand it, the university community understands it and you don't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u142	Aren't we democratic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u143	'Democratic Opposition'. I do not personally ask your democracy, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u144	I'm generally talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u145	I said 'democratic opposition'. The democraticity of all of us, however, must be demonstrated every day. And in here and out. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u146	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u147	Well done. So it is not the repressive solution for everything. Whatever happens we call the police! We're making the media police, university police, police for one another, police for the other. Any solutions we'll see in any trouble? I would also like to ask whether there is indeed this infamous non - paper, which was released and dared to reproduce at least two New Democracy officials on television, who had information on the political beliefs and opinions of man who ate wood in New Smyrna and became the subject of violence by the institutions of order. That's what you need to answer. And do it before it starts to go through photocopies, and then it turns out to be fun, because there are responsibilities here. It is obvious that there is a tactic under the heading 'Tractor of tension'. You choose this intensity precisely because you have a huge failure on all fronts. I'll come to this later after making a few comments about the bill. The bill you bring is the follow-up of Law 4599/2019- of our own government, in the spring of 2019- and is based on the work that had been done at that time. So there's no innovation of yours. The only innovation is that you did not proceed with the adoption of the relevant joint ministerial decisions, after all the preparation had been made. Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans must have a uniformity under the relevant Directives, targets must be established through quantitative and qualitative indicators, which can compare the work done in each municipality. Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans by category of municipality should, of course, be planned. The islands cannot be in the same category as the metropolitan municipalities, the rural municipalities with the semi-publics. And, of course, specific indicators should be provided for the relief and especially for islands. There should also be on-off criteria, i.e. a minimum bar, for example, for pollutants, for mobility, for the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises, for bicycles, for green and public spaces. How, though, can we really talk about developing Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, when in the respective part of the bill the word 'bicycle' is mentioned only once, the word 'walk' one while the word 'living' is only in parentheses? Another omission of the bill is the aim of reducing pollution and noise, as key problematic in modern city, which are the primary target of the CVAs based on the definition of European directives. It must also have a role for the Ministry of the Environment, as the CVA must be compatible with spatial and urban plans. Environmental policies cannot and must not be ignored. Finally, the draft law should provide for virtuous circles of feedback and interaction with the country's transport strategy. Not only is the previous law taken into account, but not even the strategic plan for infrastructure and transport. There should also be a clear milestone for all stages of the drafting of the CVA. It is well known that there is insufficient staffing, Mr Kefaliannis, at the OTAs, and here we see that OTAs are being forced to set up working groups to form them in one year from now. You realise that this may raise questions as to whether they will be able to integrate programmes into funding. Also, the monitoring report may have to be annual and coincides with the tabling of the OTA budgets, so that progress per year can be checked, because you can imagine that a municipal authority in its term of office once will submit a monitoring report of the CVA, the second it can be postponed for a while, because it will be in front of the election. A comment on light personal electrical vehicles, so-called ‘electrical skates’. We think we should copy, see what best practices are internationally and have compulsory helmet use. It's critical, because there are too many accidents with these vehicles. It must be taken into account. We consider the regulation on the presence of private supervisors in the CTEOs to be problematic, which will do the right to control at the very exit of the private CTEO. Finally, we are opposed to the equivalence of A1 and B driving licences. One final comment: Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately developments in the major issues in the country have taken the orbit of a downward spiral. Unfortunately, the cases of the coronary are not only increasing, but we also had a record yesterday. We did not have the opportunity to discuss this, of course, because there were other events that covered the news. The thousand two hundred IF beds exist only in the announcements, because with the four hundred eighty we are at 95% of capacity, while the hospitals in Athens one after the other state that they have exhausted their ability to meet the needs. The painful thing is that we are at the same point as in November - in November, be careful - when the second wave was starting and you had the time to prepare yourself. This is the painful thing, because in the first wave of pandemic, the resistance of the people and their disciplines have been tested in the measures to limit movements, and that is where all the opposition has contributed. It gave you time and the people and the parties and you did not use this time credit. We're just in the same spot. They increase cases - look out for the coronary. And you know what other cases are growing? The cases of police arbitrariness. Citizens' attorney says we have a 75% increase. There's something to tell you, something to answer. The leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection cannot be concealed by this too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, a comment on the economy and I conclude, Madam President. We have a huge recession for 2020 and we would not like to see our country reintroduced into a debate on 'Greek Statistics'. Because we have learned that, because it has fallen by enough GDP in 2020, and the recession would come out very much, the GDP of 2019 was subsequently revised, so that it would appear smaller. And there's a little miracle, what we've done, it says, export record in 2020, that's equivalent to what we only had in 1996. We'll all be called to see and talk about it. You have - unfortunately, for you - taken a very bad road. You have disproved the expectations of society, even of the parts of society, which had given you consent and had even come to your call. You choose the strategy of tension as a response to your structural failures and will come to you too big a political account. Be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Let's go to the second circle of speakers with a natural presence and Mr. Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill entitled "Greece on the Move", which we are discussing today, marks the transition of our country to a new era for urban transport and road safety. However, before I go to the main theme of the bill, what was demonstrated yesterday by the sad episodes in Nea Smyrna and it has been strongly perceived in recent times is that the party of Officerial Opposition is not in any way interested in improving the quality of life of the citizen nor in respect of the minimum measures in relation to the treatment of the coronary. Unfortunately, what seems to concern you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is the cultivation of feelings of polarization and division, which refer to other times. Because I have heard you, Mr. Pappa, that you said we are calling for every incident with the police, is the police not the service of everyone, but of all democratic regimes? It is not the police responsible for keeping distances, congratulating them, etc.Huh? Because, if it is not part of the democratic system, you should have abolished it in four and a half years. But you used it - and you used it against Coron - not by hoodiers, of course, but by over-age pensioners who were protesting. In any case, I will end here and wish wholeheartedly to the unfortunate police officer who yesterday was ruthlessly beaten by the mob of the owls. And since we have here Mr Kefaloniann, with regard to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, I would like this step, Minister, once again to thank the Ministry's leadership, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, for the immediate mobilisation of your Ministry, workshops, for the rapid recording of the damage caused by the major earthquakes that have struck and continue to affect Larissa's Law and, in general, for their valuable contribution to the management of the crisis as a whole, as well as all the relevant ministers and co- ministers. In fact, the state's reaction was rapid and the request of all earthquakes is to continue with the same interest, the same intensity and the same speed. With regard to the content of the bill, first of all, this is a great step towards the implementation of the government's strategic plan on road safety, which we have in favour of in the Standing Committee on Road Safety of Parliament, which I have the honour of chairing. Our main position is the formation of a new effective road safety governance, which will pass through all levels of public administration and ensure the implementation of a long-term national action plan through the unity of road safety policies, from the top of the executive arm of the state mechanism to local government. This is why, under this legislation and the provisions on Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, citizens' safe and environmentally friendly mobility is promoted through the realisation of related projects in all regions and municipalities with more than thirty thousand inhabitants. In particular, through the CVAs are promoting improving road safety, promoting micro mobility, facilitating electricity mobility, developing intelligent mobility systems, strengthening public transport systems and, of course, improving the accessibility of disabled people. The CVAs will take into account the guidelines of the National Strategic Transport Plan, contribute to the uniform implementation of the respective OTA public policies and produce uniformly sustainable results on a long-term basis. The Ministry of Transport's Transport Development Directorate will, of course, be responsible for their training and implementation. Thus, the new road safety governance model, which will be structured by the areas that will be introduced by the Minister with the next bill, according to the strategic plan presented by him, by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about a month ago, is structured. The second issue we had raised as a priority since the first meeting of the Committee on Road Safety is the introduction of micro-mobility rules. In particular, we stressed the risk with skates on fast-moving roads and the many accidents that have already been caused. Therefore, the draft law introduces a new safety net through the envisaged traffic rules for electric skates, wheels, wheelboards, etc. In particular, electric vehicles are grouped together, characterised as light personal electric vehicles, and arrangements are introduced to allow their movement in two belts according to the speed they develop. Since they move at a speed of up to six kilometers an hour, they can be released wherever the pedestrians are, while when their speed is between six and twenty - five kilometers an hour, they may be released wherever the bicycles are. Therefore, with the new provisions, these vehicles will not be in the streets where speeds more than 50 km are being developed, and, as we said at the first meeting of the committee during the preparation of this draft law, these are provisions that prevent many accidents. It is also noteworthy that the power given to self-government to restrict the traffic of these vehicles and to define specific parking spaces, as well as the completeness of the forecasts on drivers' discrepancies and equipment for electric vehicles, combined with the obligation - which are very serious - to accompany children who have not completed the twelfth year of age and are driving on a road network. Furthermore, the bill finally enters the used market and buyers will finally know what they really buy. In particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport will keep a register of imported used vehicles to supervise the necessary documentation required on importation and their first registration in Greece. Importers must register the background number, model, cubicosis, maximum weight, carbon dioxide emissions, date of first circulation abroad and other elements necessary to comply with the technical safety requirements. Compliance with the technical safety requirements of vehicles is also the case with regard to the register of CTEs. In this regard, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is established to ensure the quality of control procedures and the efficient operation of the CTEO machinery. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I am sure that it impressed the fact that we heard in committee by the Minister of State, that in Greece we have a rate of rejection of 4.5%, when in Germany the corresponding figure is 35.5% and in Greece the average age of the wheeled drivers exceeds 15 years. Therefore, through the CTEO supervisors, which will be private engineers, checks will be carried out both at the exit and within the CTEs, in order to determine their functionality and to prevent poor controls. The draft law also regulates other important issues, such as the pension scheme for drivers and trainers of candidates, where it allows pensioners to maintain for the exploitation of two public-use cars, trucks or buses, in order to avoid substantially disrupting their economic equilibrium, as well as the possibility for candidates to continue working as retired persons and not to submit to the insurer the driving licence to limit certain categories. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as a whole this is a bill which introduces innovations and forms the basis for modern and functional road safety governance, which is a key priority of the government and a personal objective of the Prime Minister since we were opposition when he had presented the New Democracy programme on road safety. More will be seen in the next few months and as long as the conditions in the Committee on Road Safety allow it, as the State Secretary, Mr Kefaliannis, will come to tell us about his next legislative initiative. I personally thank him for our excellent cooperation so far, and of course I am voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u150	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs. Perka has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to say about this bill storm that we are already discussing Chrysso in another Chamber and I should be there now. Anyway, I think a class will come in. This bill, I think, is one - in my opinion - good break with the rest of the ministry, but all the government that comes here. Before I go into this bill, I would also like to make a statement and say: do not use pandemic as an opportunity. Democracy cannot be destroyed every day in the squares and everywhere. Of course, we condemn the extreme reactions. But let's go to this bill, which at least satisfys me very much that it came because, really, when I became Secretary-General at the Ministry of Transport, I find it regrettable that there was not even a department, an administrative structure for Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. It is well known to all of us that Greece has left far behind in these plans and in sustainability, in mild forms of movement and for cities that are more sustainable. Generally speaking, political leaderships over time did not have this vision or could not pass the vision on to society and local rulers. In any case, I think we are going to follow up today, as there is the previous situation. I am going to make a regression to see and how these things go ahead, because, as we have said, a great deal of involvement is needed. We have therefore worked together to establish an interministerial working group to draw up the CVA standard framework, with the participation of the relevant Ministry of Transport, Environment and Interior and distinguished scientists, such as the Association of Greek Transporters, IMET, etc. But we also worked with local government, because the role of local government in the creation of the CVA is catalyst. We have organised a lot of information activities. I shall mention, for example, a substantial event together with the 'JASPERS', which is the European Commission, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with more than sixty mayors, regional directors, to commit and explain what the SPAs are. Seminars were also held at the Ministry, addressed to the executives of local government I and II, for information on how they will be executed. Indeed, Minister, I would suggest that these should be repeated at regular intervals, because it is truly unprecedented and it is not a simple traffic study. Of course, we have also introduced the Sustainable Mobility Division, which is a very important step. At the end of the day, of course, Mr. 4599 was also voted. In Article 22 there were exactly the SBAKs. Of course, the CIA didn't come out. We therefore welcome the continuation. I am therefore pleased that this is an attempt to put new data on transport planning, to change planning culture and to involve all those involved from the initial stage of arrest. This effort has yielded fruit, because today a hundred sixty SVAK are made in various municipalities in the country. I am closely following it, as I said, and I am pleased and should take account of the European experience where the CVA has started since 2013. We now have the second edition of the European Directives ELTIS, and thousands of European cities have drawn up plans, with a main axis of mild movement, bike, walking, quality and reliable transport, and we are therefore moving forward. Of course, at committee meetings I had some concerns about whether the bill actually takes us a step further than the resolution No 4599 and whether it responds to the current European and national circumstances. Some responded, but no. More generally, I can say that we have found hospitable ears - I will mention them - from Mr Kefaliannis. All of this, because it is a given fact that the sustainability and sustainability of cities are particularly important and we really need to work together. But I would remind you that it needs vision, strategy, participation and planning for all citizens of towns with free spaces, free flows, green cities, democratic and intelligent. I also referred to the committees on the European tripartite, which is very essential and is 'walking - bicycle - public transport'. I think that the plans should be more emphasised. It's too bad. I remember, as a student in Polytechnic, I did diplomatic for bike roads and they still don't exist in Thessaloniki. The reduction in pollution and noise and the interest in public health should also be reflected. With regard to spatial planning, it is understood that the design of the area is of direct relevance to the design of mobility. So it had to be connected. But here we have had a positive response from the Minister that in the work group dealing with the CVA, we will have the addition of city and countryside and, of course, we welcome that. What concerns us in particular is the risk of different approaches and overlapping between municipalities and regions, because it does not have clear limits and responsibilities. In fact, I think the CEDEFOP also raised this issue. Cooperation here is necessary, but coordination at political level is also necessary in order to define the terms of this cooperation. There is also the mandatoryity of the SVA in Athens and Thessaloniki, which we consider to be very positive. We would have avoided the "big walk", if the mayor of Athenians was obliged to do a serious job, such as the SBAKs. In addition, we proposed a single metropolitan SVAK for areas such as Athens and Thessaloniki, because we believe that the needs of these areas cannot be covered simply in cooperation with the OTAs. As far as the funding is concerned, the Minister told us that it was from the Public Investment Programme, but that it was needed to implement it, and this should also be anticipated. I will again insist on the Sustainable Urban Logistics Plans, which are directly linked to the CVA, because we are indeed at this juncture. If anything proved by pandemic is that e-commerce - I say - came to stay. But think that all this is done in empty towns with lockdown. So new transport work will be added to the same roads that are congested. So this is urgent. I think that the urban distribution of goods and the urban centres for the integration of goods is too combined. There we had moved on and the issue of a President-in-Office's decree was left with co-legislative ministries, which has not gone far enough for a year and a half. This law provides for the Presidential Decree. Minister, it is critical that the SBAKs plus Sustainable Urban Logistics Plans. As far as the vehicle without a driver is concerned, I will say that I have had the honour of inaugurating the first vehicle without a driver, as Secretary-General for Transport in Trikala under the 'CITYMOBIL' programme. It was a real experience. Our country's innovation was that we have taken care of and regulated - because a reflection has been mentioned in the Chamber - who has the responsibility for the driver. So what did we do then? We thought that the driver's responsibility would go to the man who manages, to the manager, to the traffic control centre. So, we had a global originality, because it was the first world vehicle without a driver released under conditions of real circulation. Because there was the programme, it was obviously not ours, but it was the first case in conditions of real circulation. So we shouldn't be afraid. Science has gone too far. And I finish with the "the Stockholm Declaration", the road hierarchy and the arteries collectors and locals, in order to reduce them to local, if possible, from 50 km to 30 km. As far as road safety is concerned, Minister, although all this is done in Europe, as you have said, because we have the sad first to the victims of young people, let us be a little more stringent, I mean with regard to the helmet and the mobile phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, now has the floor. Immediately after that, Mrs Pipili and Mr Boutsikakis will take the floor, and of course the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will follow Mrs Soulis. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is in a marginal state with society to monitor developments on both the forefront of the pandemic and the incredible scene of tension and violence over the last few days, a scene that unfortunately is technically maintained and reproduced both by the Government and by the Civic Response which has probably found the wrong reason to revive the "plan" of 2011. And the Prime Minister may have then sent a commemorative proclamation against the division last night, but it would be well to do a self-criticism for him, for his resignation, but also for the attitude and statements of top officials of the New Democracy who were throwing oil at the fire in the last ten days of tension, which we lived in this Chamber last week, where in a two-day conversation the Minister for Development spoke more than thirty times off the subject of the bill, sparking the "pig-Pong" conflict and confrontation. And no, Mr Mitsotakis, you did not warn yourself, as you hypocritically mentioned yesterday in your complaint. Only us, the Change Movement, have been warning us a long time ago and from here on the risk of triggering social tension, when you, together with SYRIZA, have become a court case in political controversy. You, both, all you've ever seen and seen is the party benefit and the crowding of your audiences, even of the most extremes. The murderous type of attack taken last night by the police officer, as I said before, followed up unjustified violence on Sunday afternoon by a police officer to a citizen. Of course we didn't even see a conviction at that time. And even in yesterday's so-called 'consensual order', Mr. Mitsotakis had no talk about Sunday's incident, but only he had a finger on the citizens and young people. It is no coincidence that the party of New Democracy had rushed to act as an attorney for the police, while the trade unions themselves condemned this action, while the New Democracy set citizens against the Greek Police, instead of uniting and protecting both the police and the citizens. We at PASOK know what struggle, what actions and what policies it took for Greek citizens to come closer to the Greek Police, which Mr Chrysochoidis knows very well, and who is currently spending this over-10-year effort of PASOK on the feet of the new right that he serves. However, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if this is the image of a country that is trying to overcome the crisis, if that is a picture of normality. This image is required to change and it needs to change now. We need a national plan to overcome the consequences of the crisis that will be multiple and I fear they will touch a large part of our fellow citizens. That is why we asked for a debate to be held yesterday at the level of political leaders not on the phenomena of violence, as the Government and Civic Opposition are guided, but on the next day of the country, in order to isolate all those who are investing in violence and finally to draw a course for the future of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of November we have been in the situation of a lockdown which, as the epidemiological data show, has failed. Because I do not believe that anyone here in this Chamber is a success that, after four months of lockdown, we had more than three thousand cases yesterday, at the same time that the tubes are approaching the five hundred and new hospitalisations from patients over three hundred in one day. In spite of all the dramatic, commonly professed, data, government ministers continue to surprise us with their obscene and unsatisfactory statements. As soon as the Minister of Finance Mr Stavouras and yesterday the Minister of Development Mr Georgiadis made specific dates for opening the retail trade and focusing it in less than two weeks from today. Of course, today all these assessments are being dismantled by reality, and the Minister for Development seems to have rethinked it by making a corrective statement. In the same climate, however, Mr.Gerapetritis also announced that the Greeks would be able to make Easter in their villages. With what data are these statements made, ladies and gentlemen, when the Government Representative itself a few hours ago said that the opening up of the market is not at this moment? Is it possible to speak unresponsible for public health ministers and not for specialist infectiousists? Does that remind you of what we've lived for the last two days? Does it remind you of the Minister for Health a few days ago that schools are an outbreak of virus transmission and, on the same day, the Minister for Education to counter it, I was certainly unresponsive to public health? Whether, then, the ministers are not aware of the real facts of the pandemic or because they cannot really support the professional and social groups affected and affected, they are trying very simply, very cheaply, to close the eye by saying that they want to open the market, but that they are not left to them by some. Who? Bad infectious people? Do you really, gentlemen of the government, have you carried out an evaluation of the measures taken, why and where did you fail? At the moment that we are talking, there has been a climate of fatigue, frustration and distrust among the Greek people from your own mistakes and from the diffuse feeling that the measures you have taken have simply failed. In the protection measures and in vaccinations, the state should have an ally for the citizen. You, instead of convincingly explaining to the citizens what you do each time and why you take the new restrictive measures that you are baptizing as "hard lockdown", "hard lockdown" and now "smart lockdown", you put them across and move their fingers. Gentlemen of the Government, it is clear that since your choices are always made on the basis of communication management and polling you considered that the paper 'hard sheriff' has broad acceptance and of course you adopted it. We have seen this in the debate on the new Police Corps at universities after a year and a half full of inertia, as we have of course seen in the unprecedented New Izmir incident, which was also the occasion of the protest marches, the continuing tension, yesterday's incidents and, above all, the serious injury of a new police officer. These are incidents that were not so individual after we have the authoritarianism and the demonstration of power in the dogma "law and order" clash with extremist forces and the well-known "blacks" who always enter the marches and are truly incomprehensible and allowed under these conditions, let alone be motivated. It is worrying that some on the government side have placed particular emphasis on the political opinions of those who were beaten with statements that justified a little bit of beating, since finally the beating was "drought" by someone who belonged to a left-wing party or to an activist organisation. If that's possible! On the one hand, the government argues that it should not be charged with the extreme behaviour of a police officer on the other hand, but wants to charge the injury of his colleague. And of course, when the government itself does not show any interest in dealing with and punishing these behaviours, does it or does it not have objectively responsibility? And here there is evidence to testify to this responsibility, because a committee has been set up under Mr Alivizato to examine exactly these phenomena of police violence and arbitrary action, which has issued a finding that the main cause of overcoming these limits and extreme behaviours has been impunity. This conclusion was submitted to Mr Chryssohoid ten months ago. What did Mr Chrysochide do? The absolute nothing came to the House to discuss this finding, as the Change Movement requested him four months ago, and we even restored this request two days ago. And it is characteristic that Mr Alivizatos himself said that the committee is no longer in existence, since there was no interest in the competent authorities to continue their work. A statement that I do not think there can be any other interpretation. Of course, Mr. Mitsotakis has rushed to see Mr. Alivizatos, while he should have called Mr. Chrysochoidis and asked him for explanation and to ask him very simply why he has buried this fact for so many months now. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the New Democracy, as well as SYRIZA, are setting a scene of tension with an obvious aim to exacerbate and disorientate public opinion when the country needs peace and stability in the direction of social well-being and national effort out of the crisis. Contrary to the polarisation you are attempting, we have chosen the role of responsible counter-population and, at this point, we are putting in and out of Parliament and, of course, we are approaching the current draft law on Sustainable Urban Mobility and Small Mobility projects, which, as our rapporteur, Christos Gokas, said, is in favour of because we are dealing with issues relating to the daily life and living conditions of the citizen, on the one hand, and on the other, because it sets the regulatory framework for a smoother and environmentally friendly movement. At the same time, of course, we need to take initiatives on maximum security. In this direction we think that helmets should be made compulsory. The limitation of the use of cars and of traffic lessons from a very young age are some axes that I think should be adopted. In addition, bicycles and traffic lanes should be designed for non-engine vehicles. Particular value for us is the inability to move and the lack of accessibility of disabled people in most of the cities in our country. It is a given that today offends our society and our culture, and the political system and local government must move much faster to enable our fellow citizens to have access to and circulation. We also expect your legislative initiative on how to examine candidate drivers, since the previous framework has been abolished, while driving trainers suffer the side effects of the previous situation with strikes and postponement of the tests as they were almost universally excluded from the last two cycles of repayable advance, since the comparable periods of 2019 have been economically problematic, since people have not been working. And you need to see this again, because in addition to the rental subsidy at the moment driver schools are closed and they have no support measures. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, the country is at the forefront of an unprecedented public health crisis threatening the economy to shrink to the detriment of our small and weakest fellow citizens. Instead of having a fruitful debate on the way out of the crisis, we are unfortunately watching the government invest in division and fuelling focal points of violence and Civic Anti-Civilism back into populism, covering even extreme voices at the limits of legitimacy. Both of you, instead of giving lessons of consensus and solidarity, are giving lessons of division and conflict. Instead of giving a lesson of responsibility, you teach a lesson of irresponsibility, because you are the new bipartement of our national irresponsibility. The Change Movement will not follow you in this dangerous and slippery way for our democracy. Because for us in the PASOK and the Change Movement above all - we have proved it in the past, we do it now, we will do it whenever necessary - it is homeland and national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr Katrin. Good evening to you and me. Passing to the Angel the Officer from Sidirokastro, whom I happen to know his family. Now Mrs Fotini Pipili has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to believe that last Sunday's events in New Smyrna and yesterday's events in New Smyrna must be the last such tragic events. I believe it, I hope there's been a lesson in everyone. We are talking today about an extremely interesting bill dealing with Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. And it's extremely interesting, because it's a bill that at least from the beginning to the middle concerns only man, the citizen and much more the citizen who wants to experience in a modern human city, how rather the pedestrian who is the most forgotten citizen in general in Greece and much more here in the center of Athens. It is a bill that promotes the general world concept of not cars, yes to electric cars, yes to motorcycles which, as we do, are the most useful for many reasons you can use, yes to bicycles, yes, of course, yes to shoes with permission at last so that we do not experience what happened two years ago that were generally circulating the shoe owners without even having permission, so some rules of circulation. Mr Ministers, I would like you to be a younger generation to make a retreat that I personally regret very much, a retreat that has to do with the abandonment of Athens by its own people over the years. I sat down and found the evidence from the Home Office. In 1990 the first Athens constituency had twenty seats. In 2009 he had seventeen seats. In 2019 he had fourteen. In the next elections there will be thirteen and if the 2021 census takes place in 2022, for example, it is mathematically certain that Athens will become one of the smallest regions in Greece. Why? Because a capital and a municipality of Athenians without infrastructure was built over time, which became a non-viable city, which many Athenians desperately left from the conditions in Athens - I am thinking of the Municipality of Athens - which is the first constituency of Athens - and where in the end Athens, as I say many times, will become an urban centre for tourists, for the holders of Airbnb, for cafes and bars. Therefore, this bill, if implemented properly by the co-responsibility factors, particularly self-government, can help to the question of the return of the Athenians, because a city must have residents, neighborhoods and neighborhoods not only extends to commercial activity, but also the notion of family, child service, primary school, cleaning, oven, neighborhood. I expressed my anxiety at the first committee that met, saying that I am concerned that this bill, of course, sets out as responsible for the implementation of sustainable urban mobility of OTAs, namely municipalities. Let's take an example. Slots and bicycles are now added with permission. However, given that, unfortunately, the pavements of Athens are so narrow, so occupied with all kinds of other activities, I personally fear, because I am pedestrian and constantly circulating, how to combine skateboards, cafes, tables, pedestrians, bicycles, pedestrians, people of old, mothers and dads with wheelchairs, when they are faced with this unacceptable phenomenon - I will insist on a global phenomenon, running motorcycles now on the central sidewalks of Athens, running backwards and above all because it suits them not to go along with cars. They can make this inappropriate and become daily fights on the sidewalks and on the pedestrians, because we, who own the pavement, cannot proceed. Minister, Mr. Kefaloyannis, first of all, I would like to congratulate you because you are extremely well-read and have given me the impression that you are ready to hear comments from the opposition or from us and to incorporate them into the Ministry's bill. Watch out now. The Sustainable Mobility Department of the Municipality of Athens, which will take over this huge project - I spoke this morning - has only five employees. It's not even an address of the Municipality of Athens. He's only got five architects, town-runners, relatives. So you must press - I do not know, the Ministry of the Interior - so that the municipalities automatically, after the vote, can serve and strengthen the services responsible so that your efforts can be successful. I am very grateful to Mr Kefaliannis for informing me of a timely question I had tabled in November 19 - and for which I complained to him - that the state should make compulsory double-cycle parking places everywhere. I thought nothing had happened, but you replied to me - and I thank you for that - that you, as the Ministry of Transport, signed it in November of '20s. So it's accountable for me - and I'm preparing a new timely one - it's the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which has not yet signed. I should also like to thank my colleague from Mera25, Mr Logiades, because of the three hundred people, I think that we are the two who have spoken specifically about the problems of hikers. Be well, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. On the sidewalks, you've been struggling a lot since I got here. Mr. Christoforos Boutsikakis from New Democracy is called in Stepma by the First Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to read something that many of you might not know about. It's some statements. In the end, I'll tell who he is. They are: "From yesterday morning, SYRIZA members received messages or calls to gather to New Smyrna at night. The message was from SYRIZA organisations. He didn't come to me, but he came to my friends who were at SYRIZA and they've left now. SYRIZA has changed to a coronary wheelchair. The reported cases are due to these concentrations made daily either for Koufontina or for other issues. Yesterday in New Smyrna they were dozens of hoods. He's in charge of SYRIZA because he's got two and three thousand people on his way every day. Most of SYRIZA's instigating the episodes. Why have there never been incidents with the mobilisation of the JRC? Because there is care." These are Mr Stathis Panagoulis's words this morning on the MEGA Social Time show. I'll submit it to the Minutes later so you'll have it. Here, then, we see that you are the supposedly health sensitive, which is the highest good. On the one hand, with enthusiasm, you are calling your own fans in demonstrations in the middle of the pandemic, and on the other you are asking yourself why they are increasing cases. And Mr. Tsipras turns his eye off, in the middle of interviews, giving political coverage to all of this. We've all seen him, with an open mouth, when from the AlPHA news report and Mr. Schrotter...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u158	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u159	A week ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u160	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u161	No, a week ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u162	...to give political legitimacy for all the things that happened yesterday, indifferent to the battle of the ERC, for the battle we all give. The eyes of the Greek people are Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, Mr. Comrade, who accepts the risk of Mr. Tsipras. You are accused of not performing the measures against the pandemic, while at the same time sabotaging them daily. You sabotage the effort of the government, sabotage the efforts of the Greek people, sabotage the efforts of the Greek economy. Bet on the disaster one more time to get a few votes. Yesterday, you supported a gathering where we saw stones, irons, cadrons, molotovs, beetovers. Ten wounded police officers, three serious ones, and Mr. Tsipras is missing. Bet on splitting and sow hate as before 2015, but then. We've seen you who you are. You've ruled four years. Now the Greek people have learned you and are not fooled. We will not allow you to split the country again, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We won't let anyone come back to us. You are undermining stability inside and outside. These images, like yesterday, travel all over the world. We're waiting for some responsibility from you. I heard Mr Famelos attacking Mr Chryssohoid. We all know why you're targeting him. Because he is the one who dismantled on 17 November and he is the one who fought with courage and courage against terrorism. Better, Mr. Santorinier, get out of the Chamber because you can't stand the truths. And that's what bothers you. On today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, I am first aware of the importance of traffic, social, economic and professional everyday life. In Piraeus traffic on the streets is one of the biggest problems, so it is necessary to complete the expansion of the metro and tram more quickly and to create many new parking places. Piraeus really needs a new traffic planning by reducing cars, by increasing the traffic of public transport and by creating green corridors for bicycles and pedestrians. Our town, like many others, needs interventions, areas linked to the organization of traffic. All this is expected to be the subject of the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan prepared by Piraeus Municipality. In addition, we are facilitating, in addition to all others, which my previous colleagues have covered, electricity, we are developing intelligent travel systems, we are exploiting new technologies and we are introducing an innovative institutional framework for automotive driving. For the first time, we have laid down rules on micromobility, with a focus on light personal electric vehicles. We improve the accessibility of our fellow citizens with disabilities. People with disabilities often lack fundamental rights, such as the right to work, health, education, since traffic structures and systems are often unaccompanied by those who face difficulties in moving. We are changing that today. The aim is for all our fellow citizens to be able to move comfortably, even with electric cars. Finally, the exclusion and social isolation. Access everywhere and access to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, I would like to say that road traffic is a time-consuming problem. We are one of the most mobile countries and unfortunately with most asphalt deaths. More generally, the way we move in the cities is our cultural index. Advanced societies are distinguished for respect for safety, traffic and strict observance of social behaviour rules. They are distinguished for the accessibility of all citizens, in particular those vulnerable. We are dealing with this void today. We are legislation, with the focus of man, a bill - a section on strengthening road safety. That is why we have committed ourselves, and today we are doing so. We move quickly so that our country will soon be classified as the most advanced technological and cultural countries in the field of travel. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u163	Thank you too for keeping time, Mr Butsicaki. I would like to say to my fellow Members that of course you can make reference to the current situation, but do not exceed the time you have to devote to the draft law on 'Greece on the move'. We can't talk about the other things and keep the bill shut. You can't do that. Of course you do not live in glass, but not five minutes for topicality and two for the bill. Because this is where we're talking about the bill. Ms Maria - Eleni Soukoulis Vilialis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u164	I, Mr President, wanting to talk about topicality, but also about the bill, because it is a very important bill, I tell you now that I will also take time from my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u165	All right, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u166	At this difficult juncture, most of the Greek society with a large force proved to be able to stand up to the circumstances. It has shown that individual responsibility also has collective responsibility. He stood alongside both scientists and state, protecting the supreme good of health. We now know that this is not a short struggle, it is a seasonal struggle, and we also know that the excess endurance of Greek society is slowly being exhausted. But our joint effort has worked. The ESS has been strengthened and strengthened, vaccination is progressing and even today our country has done better than other countries. That's why it's worth not to bend now, at the very last moment, when the light of return to normality is beginning to appear on the horizon. Every life that we can protect is worthwhile, as long as we do not drift away from the voices of populism that try to rehearse the atmosphere of 2015, taking the risk even for the lives of others, calling them - listen - listen! - demonstrations, marches and gatherings. It is enough to leave the opposition to despair and to the divisive rhetoric that is investing in an intangible way on the difficulty of managing the global health crisis. Let the opposition of despair, which is chasing the wave of social saturation against our health workers, who are trying to counteract the waves of both the pandemic and its mutations. It is regrettable that in this national effort, the SYRIZA's concern is to return instead of helping, to split instead of uniting. Sad and tragic. There has been a lot of talk about violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the maintenance and protection of legitimacy is the foundation of our democracy and no one is excluded from this constitutional position. However, this good sensitivity to the protection of legality cannot be a sound card. Who avants the politically dangerous "bugs" throwing molotovs at police stations, in patrol cars, asking for police IDs stopping civilians on the street, aiming at causing a social explosion? The result is to see the unacceptable and creepy images we saw yesterday in Nea Smyrna, a murderous type of attack, a wounded police officer on the ground, as if he were not a worker, no rights, no family. The same, of course, applies to the unacceptable and convicted image in the square of Nea Izmir two days earlier, for which the SAD was directly ordered and attributed responsibility. The lieutenant has been made available and other responsibilities are being examined. Research continues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is now proven that at every historically difficult moment in the country you are investing in chaos with belligerent generalizations, isolating individual cases to question fundamental democratic institutions to question the police, justice and the government. I wonder: Are you politically irresponsible or are you politically ruthless? All you care about is party survival? Aren't you standing in the exhausted body of the Greek society at all? Here you did not hesitate to join even with a small minority who proclaims that he was born "17 November", questioning our rule of law openly. You are desperate and you are trying to push society to the extremes. It is, of course, your privileged field. However, 2021 is not 2015. The Greek Government and the Greek people will not allow you to turn the country back. Ladies and gentlemen, violence has not been, it is never and will never be a solution for any favoured state and it should be made clear in all directions that compliance with the law is our guarantee of our social coexistence. Therefore, those who dream of democracy in a hostage will do well to wake up. Those who dream of society in flames will be disappointed. Because the times have changed and the masks have fallen. Democracy and society require unity and calm, seriousness and responsibility to overcome this difficult situation. Be sure that in a short time while you will still be in the darkness of your fantasies, the Greek people will be free and will be fighting in light along with the government for the regeneration of the country. And we will manage as always, without you, but also for you. I'm going through the bill now. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, improving the daily lives of citizens is a strategic priority for our Government. It is always the strategy and planning within the government project - Mr Giannoulis, you have hardly noticed it so far - against a lasting social and political issue for our country. The draft law we are called upon to adopt is a forcefully intervening in an important area of public policy, which for many years seems to have been at the forefront of the failure of quality living conditions within the limits of urban and peri-urban areas. The management of urban mobility, however, is a challenge that needs to be won if we really want to establish a new environment for upgraded social function. And this cannot be achieved with failed conditions of yesterday, but only through the change of our strategic approach, which takes into account today's new environmental, economic and social data, seeing the real needs of people tomorrow. The proposed route is doing just that. It finalises the concept of sustainability and the leading role it has to play in the work planning of our actions to improve mobility in cities. Before, however, we move on to the necessary change of approach to the treatment of a chronic problem, we need to look at the existing situation, so as to stress the need to adopt a different strategy of targeting and practice. Of course, at this point, we should be absolutely honest with the citizens. The effect of local, basically, transport projects in urban centres across the territory, with the exception of few bright exceptions, demonstrates that urban mobility management, instead of promoting the improvement of the daily life of citizens, was the operative cause for the deterioration of the urban area and by extension of their quality of life. You will allow me to use the thirteen years of my self-government experience to confirm that the fragmentary actions, which have been implemented by the ATT, were aimed solely at facilitating the increased use of private motor vehicles to the detriment of an effective public transport system, alternative forms of movement, to the detriment of even the free movement of people with special needs, such as people with disabilities, while the environmental burden was a futuristic concept, without any substantial content and rather was used to distribute the political reason. So we have reached the final point of delivering or seeking more urban space to private motors, because we were convinced that we would only get away from her rock. It's a bitter reality, but it's a reality. Come to the town of Corinth to observe the port and its coastal front overlooking the Corinthian and opposite the Geranias, to find the incomprehensible. The natural beauty of the area is exclusively for pleasure in our cars, parking. Fortunately, the new municipal authority, rightly seeing distortion, proceeded directly to the adoption of the SBAK strategy to address the deterioration of the urban area. Private engine has been and partly still is the absolute totem of Greek society and by extension of the state. It is a concept that we must confess to being sufficiently anachronistic. That is exactly where the importance of this bill lies. The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is coming to take an important step forward in order to break this incomplete practice, but above all to root out a problematic culture that has been cultivated for decades at individual and collective level for exactly what is considered to be beneficial and qualitative in the effort to improve living conditions. How does he do that? Firstly, this bill in particular with the SVA, but also with the forecasts for microcirculation, is changing the approach to urban mobility management. It sets the strategic area for achieving the qualitative dimension of living in the urban area, which states that actions initiated by humans should first of all operate for the benefit of humans. Secondly, it breaks the big problem of fragmentation after motivating OTAs and Grade I and Grade 2 to use the right design action steps to resolve the problem. The first step is being taken with a coherent strategic planning that maps the path that we need to follow both in the short and long term. Because it's just wisely said the people: "If you don't know where you want to go, you'll never get where you want." That is, in this case, about the issue of mobility management in our country for decades. Thirdly, its strategic planning and interdisciplinary approach acquires operational identity. The condition of sustainable mobility is introduced and translated into specific design priorities in order to provide appropriate actions. Public transport, non-motorised means, road safety, traffic and parking management, urban supply chain, intelligent transport systems, interconnection with urban planning form a single system of urban mobility parameters that enters under the cover of achieving the economic, social and environmental needs of the time. In particular, I would like to focus on the fact and stress that the upgraded urban space in a country like our own, beyond the benefits for all of us who live in it, is sure to attract guests, even investors, by immediately strengthening the development process. Therefore, investment in sustainable urban mobility in our cities is inextricably linked to the sustainability of local economies and the well-being of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is moving in the right direction and is coming to conflict with shaped pathogens of the past. As a political engineer, I know that urban interventions require particular attention, because they have a high degree of difficulty in switching, particularly in terms of infrastructure. Improving urban mobility will therefore be a time-consuming but certainly dynamic process. I am also aware that even more difficulty lies in changing the shaped behaviours of citizens in relation to their mobility in the urban area. But I appreciate that the Greek society today is more mature than ever to accept and shape the space and the way it lives to the most sustainable. In this effort, all of us will have to make a creative contribution to prove that human intervention can go hand in hand with the wonderful natural environment of our cities. The Ministry's bill and the Deputy Minister of State Giannis Kefaloyiannis give us today the starting point to rethink our position in the urban area and their proposal is clear: first man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Succuli. I don't give you a second because you deserve it for one minute. After all, the Parliamentary Representatives are entitled to refer to any matter. For the speakers, it was my report beforehand. Mrs Panagiou (Giota) is called Pavlou from SYRIZA, who is elected in Boeotia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many have already commented on the absence of the Ministry of the Environment as a co-legislator from this bill. As it seems, however, from the outbreak of police violence in the neighborhoods and squares, from Mr Chrysochide's claim to decide when and how the citizens will move, on which square they will walk and on which bench they will sit, the great absentee from today's bill is probably the Ministry of Civil Protection. The Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, after the common law with the Minister of Education, could well now formulate the policy of urban mobility. Of course, the solutions it gives are always the same: savage repression and arbitrary police violence. How disorganization and despair is the government, which, while it has failed to manage the pandemic and while its crisis is progressively culminating in three thousand fifteen cases yesterday and three hundred ninety imports to hospitals - is trying to mock the ears by announcing the opening of the market and the schools. Who believes her now? What government crisis is there when the Prime Minister resorts to a dictionary on the grounds of the police officer's injury yesterday, which we have all condemned, but which does not make sense of the unprecedented, unnecessarily attack on the people of Nea Smyrna. Does he think that this is how he hides the open wounds of his government? The Prime Minister invoked unity, while he himself, in the twenty-month policy of serving the "days" with direct assignments, with recruitment, with exemptions and gifts, systematically divides society and the citizens, while for twenty months he has been legislating against the Greek society, isolated from all parties of Anti-Population. Once again, the government is sowing winds and reaping storms, and in difficult circumstances it pretextally invokes unity. Ladies and gentlemen, although it shows little importance today's bill in front of the grim reality that we are experiencing, it is a serious tool for designing the quality of life of citizens in modern cities. That is why, at the top of the agenda, we must find the political will at the centre of man and the environment as indivisible and naturally accompanied by a reliable plan to address the social and environmental impacts of transport, with clean and sustainable forms of mobility, namely how to promote the use of mild means of transport with a focus on pedestrian traffic and bicycle, but also how to ensure the sustainability, functionality and flexibility of the public transport system. The answer to this question was given for the first time under a holistic design with the Government of SYRIZA. An integrated framework for the development of sustainable mobility projects was set out in Article 22 of this Act for the first time in Greece and with a core of local self-government. It took three years of methodological preparation and consultation, since 2016 set up by the Interministerial Committee on the specifications of the CVA, with the participation of all relevant bodies until 2019 adopted by No.4599. The funding was provided by the Green Fund and a hundred and sixty two municipalities incorporated their plans. At the same time, events and seminars with a mass participation were organised to inform relevant actors and self-government. These are data that you cannot deny, gentlemen of the government, although you are attempting, as you often do in the twenty months of your administration, to present them as your own innovation. Instead, Minister, to use the excellent legislative framework you found ready and proceed with the implementation of the projects concerned, you have wasted with your well-known memorial twenty months and you are now coming with a bill that is an incomplete specialisation of the pioneer N.499/2019 to re-evaluate what could be implemented with the NSAs provided for in the law, without, of course, omissioning the addition of ambiguities and weaknesses that you will resolve in future. Once again you sacrifice everything on the altar of communication. Efficiency, continuity of state and administration, good legality, public interest, let everything be thrown into the bucket of unusable ones as long as you wear the personality of supposedly innovative reformists. But the truth is quite different and first of all, the authorities of government, that is, the ones who have been struggling for twenty months to pull out of the mess you have caused for the specifications and the funding of the SVAs, precisely because you did not want to apply the clear provisions of the SYRIZA law. You have omitted to issue the legal 4599 CSR, which authorizes the Green Fund to pay the municipalities funding. You failed to provide the studies with CVA characterisation on the basis of defined specifications. But will you finally give us solutions? Because, you know, it does not concern local communities and self-government, unless the Minister for Transport has been able to consult with the Minister for the Environment for twenty months in the extradition of a CSR, even though both together did not want to implement the legislation only because it was designed by another government. Self-government knows that unacceptable delays were the result of your own flaw and responsibility. She also knows her attempted manipulation through concentration and opacity, since with every piece of your government's legislation more and more of its responsibilities are removed. This has happened with the 2020 Environmental Law, it has been with the so-called modernisation of spatial and urban legislation, it has been with the abolition of the management bodies of protected areas and now the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. You are constantly removing responsibilities, but you do not see to it that there is a clear reference in the bill either to the sources of financing or to the specific specifications of the projects, which defines which study is a CVAQ and which is not. On the contrary, you choose the easy and opaque solution of the CYPD, with permission. So any traffic studies you want will be baptized on site, and the rest will be rejected. Minister, we understand your anxiety to try to overcome the legislative performance of the previous ones and present them with your own stamp. But it would be reasonable to build on existing legislation, to make use of the strategic transport plan of the SYRIZA Government, to present a useful guide to best practices. But that didn't even work out. In addition, the bill shows that it is ignorant of the particular needs of local communities. How can it be explained that there are no differences between municipalities based on size, location and geomorphology? Everyone in the same bag, like the same needs as the large urban towns with the small isolated, mountain or island towns? Also, the ambiguity of your bill creates conflicting conditions for the projects that will be carried out by the regions with those of the municipalities, probably you still have no idea how they will be combined, and unfortunately neither will the legislator. And how can the integration of projects in spatial planning, particularly in local, spatial plans, be achieved when the most important is missing? What will happen when a CVA provides for pedestrian roads, bicycle roads, soft traffic roads, integration of blocks? What design will prevail as a supernatant? Which body will have a coordinating role? What does the Minister for the Environment answer for? The sad inability of the Transport and Environment Ministers to consult, to drugize the bill before it is even voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government with this bill loses the opportunity to use the legislative framework of the previous government and to ensure the future of sustainable urban mobility in our country. Ensure the development of the municipalities and strengthen their further funding from European programmes, since we all know that the existence of CVA projects is now a necessary prerequisite for funding. Even though the government's final work proves to be inferior to the circumstances, we as SYRIZA will try to clarify the omissions, to proceed with the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans for the quality of life of citizens. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Pulou. The Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Heitas, will now be given the floor and Mr Papadopoulos will be followed and Mr Papadimitriou will then. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Kefaliannis, I'll start with the bill. You know, Greece is burning on your own responsibility, and here we have a bill out of place and time really. It has a nice title: "Greece on the move". If Mr Babiniotis and the Greeks and Greeks forgive me, we use Greek expressions, but I do not find the Greek expression. You're trolling us! "Greece on the move," he says. The bill mentions freedom, talks about traffic, activity, freedom, with Greeks locked in the house. You talk about traffic with IX immobilized, with naturally paid traffic charges. We don't talk about this, it's all paid up to the last antenna. We're talking about activity in the bill with the Greek terrified. Even if their children are to be able to sport, you cannot allow them, Minister. So the title "Greek in motion" does not make it "Greek in inertia", "Greek in Balaur", to come to an agreement? I really do not want to say any more, just because it is about public transport and because you are in the area, with your Ministry, please ask the Prime Minister, very much, to bring us these investigations that say that the virus is not stuck in public transport. We're still waiting for them! He said it twice in the Greek Parliament. There are self-contained witnesses here and eyewitnesses. Twice he said it. Mr. Viliardos developed the bill in the most detailed way. But you did it, it's the truth, we forgot everything. We forgot about the pandemic for two 24 hours, we forgot about Mendoni, we forgot about Lignade. Hey, I'm fine! We forgot the illegal immigrants in Evros, the Cyts, we forgot Erdogan in the Aegean. We forgot everything! We are dealing with Nea Smyrna and the string of the system, the para-state 'blacks'. And of course, you have forgotten as government - them, and if you have forgotten them! - the synergies and contributors in the wider region of Elassona, in Mesochori and in the other villages, which are called upon to remain in horrendous conditions within a tent. Greek taxpayers! We forgot everything! And we naturally condemn SYRIZA and New Democracy, these two parties that create this period of civilization in our country, society, in order to disorientate the Greeks from everything, from the devastating policies of your Government for pandemic, national issues, the economy. It's sad, really, to indulge in the division. National division will be fatal! You need to understand and stand up to circumstances. The President of the Greek Solution told you very well before. Can I ask you a question? You did not reply to us, Mrs New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. What did you do yesterday to prevent what happened? What was the government's strategic plan? And when the situation escaped, what was the tactical response? You sent in infinite special guards to fight as other Hiffigenies. Do you understand what you did? As other Jigsaws! In other words, the image of the police, on top of the ducks, approaching the outraged para-stated "blacks" in this way, for those who know from a regular city war, is suicidal. That order was suicidal. I'm not talking about it. You sent them to death, and then you told them, "fight them." That's not how it works. You've done a mess. You ruled are responsible for the murderous attack on the angel, who has only escaped from hair. Luck saved his life. You're responsible for every kick and every knife she's ever taken. You're also responsible for the savage wood from policemen to arrested people who were already under arrest the other day, not to say that we don't all talk about it. For us, violence has no color, no sides, right and left. You are responsible for the police slap in the protester. You're responsible for the cop's image with the gun extended. You are responsible for the vengeance shown by the police to protesters. You want us to lead to these situations. This is political misery. And it is, indeed, political misery. And we ask the Greeks, as the voice of reason, not to get carried away and to keep their temper. So it cannot be these transnational dipods, but also helpless and, unfortunately, dangerous governance of the New Democracy, but with SYRIZA, divide Greece again. We know that the patience of the Greeks is over. But, temper. It attempts to break up and divide the Greeks. The paratrooper doesn't want us together. Calm down! And now we're going to something else. Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. It is part of the wider debate that we are having, because you are the same and that is what you are looking for. Here's a picture. I printed your color. Is this the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, one of the top universities in the country? Let me laugh! Yesterday's picture is this from the Aristotle University. You disgusting! Bug! Dirty! And is it possible to go party MPs to support illegality? Is it possible for party MPs to support the illegality at the same time as you are asking, not by laws, with television channels, for Greek citizens to obey and be in their homes, send messages of two miles, one and a half kilometres, go out, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go? But what's going on here? And it's the sixteenth day, the seventeenth day today. Where are the laws you're voting on, Mr. Kefaliannis? This is where you celebrated 15 days ago. And you brought other laws on education, on police, and you'll clean up and break the abscess and the Horseman's manure and all that. Where are these? Same and the same! Every day we have marches outside. Every day! You're rushing the intelligence and logic of the Greek man, who's locked up by a proclamation, but every day we have marches, we have rallys every day, our universities are occupied. Where is the state of New Democracy, where would it clean up all this? Where is he? Only bills "we're going to do", "we're going to show"? Where is he? It's nowhere! I'm afraid so. Hypocrisy! And, of course, the other hypocrisy is this: When the Syrians, the SYRIZA government, children, screamed at the neo-democratics, silvicultured. Nowadays, the sieves are screaming, you keep quiet. That's it. The system works fine! You're so same, really so same! Athea - I'm going to another theme - ungodly bipods have desecrated the image of the Virgin Mary and the cross. What is their punishment? None. Nothing. It's no big deal. Would their reaction be the same if, for example, they desecrated a picture of Muhammad here? To hell with the family, the paw, Greece dies, we live. Congratulations! Congratulations! They're here. We tolerate these half-Greeks, we tolerate the Christianophobics who want Greece to die. That's what they were yelling at. "Let Greece die, to live, to hell, religion, to hell with patris." See also the picture I showed you in gay pride, in the LGBTKI community, which you are supporting. Rejoice them. If they don't like them, they can get out of the country. The reputable Greek citizens, Christians or anyone else will not leave. Just stuff. And I close with this: I had a conversation with Antonis Mylonakis, who is elected in Eastern Attica. Minister - it is about your Ministry - take a little seriously. We have supported and supported the works of breath for the Greeks and Greeks. A major project, which will solve huge problems, is the road and rail connection of the capital, Athens, with the ports of Rafina and mainly the big and commercial port of Lavrio. We ask for the inhabitants of Southeast Attica the extension of the Attica Road after Koropi and the airport of Venizelos to the port of Lavrio. He will join four unequal nodes in Rafina and all over the area. Look at it. It is a request from the people of the region, which we want to take to you and we are sure you will do your utmost to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr Michael Papadopoulos is called in Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will only start with a debate on the subject of topical and urgent subjects of major importance, since all my fellow Members have started to give an opinion. I want to say a big shot to Michael Chrysochide for the self-evident. What's the self-evident thing? No one can control a police officer who may have problems or any citizen who can have even more problems. What has never been done so far by any government, however, is that we have never seen in the light of publicity results from ETS. And I hear that this has started and will be done immediately, because it is also political responsibility and the problem in fact. I hope we see this immediately, as it sounded. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a piece of legislation, which I think is useful, innovative and necessary for Greece in a modern age. It is a fact that citizens' problems in public transport, traffic congestion, road safety problems, as well as health due to increased air pollution, are important and affect the daily lives of European citizens. So a change in the vision of urban mobility is needed to ensure that Europe's urban areas - and here in this country - are developed in the most sustainable way and that all the European Union's objectives for a competitive and efficient, resource-efficient transport system are achieved. For an integrated approach, therefore, it is necessary to consider sustainable urban mobility strategies, which will support different priorities such as public transport, bicycle, speed reduction. Words - keys to the future will be the splitting of the car and the bike, but also the coexistence of all on the road. So the stake we are talking about is social and political. We must return the cities to the people. Today's bill has such characteristics and has them in the right direction, because the main concern is culture, both internal with the effort to eliminate Greek bureaucracy and in our society with acceptance by the general population. I therefore ask the Ministry of Transport, and I ask the Ministry of Transport, that his leadership should not delay a minute in the implementation of this law, overcome all the bureaucratic obstacles that will undoubtedly exist. At the same time, I propose to promote a wide range of information and mobilisation of citizens so that the necessary approach can be taken from the bottom up. It's not about making bikes for cyclists alone, it's about taking the kid to school and the employee to work. To be a part of our daily lives, to be a part of our daily lives. It is extremely good practice to find imitators throughout the country. We, ladies and gentlemen, in the energy basin of western Macedonia, Kozani and Florina, are more ready than anyone for this prospect, on the one hand, to adopt green transport, but, more so, to create pilot urban mobility projects that could also be borrowed by other municipalities and other regions, because this has been the subject of work. That is why I believe that with the support of the University of Western Macedonia there can be cooperation with the Ministry, which will support the municipalities in drawing up projects aimed at drawing up policy implementation protocols, but also in adopting good practices. I do not want to talk about paradoxicalism, but my fellow Members, Mrs Perka, have already invented our intelligence. How did he cause her? Saying they legislated and inaugurated the bus without a driver. That's not true. The truth is that we started with the first months of 2015 the bus without a driver in Trikala, in the Municipality of Trikanes. However, the legislature was made by L.4313/2014 in the pilot project, which was then implemented. The truth is, with Law 4599, he received articles of Law 4313, which were placed as the first time in Law 4559. But that's not all. And for electric cars legalization took place in 2014, the charging method, the charging points. For four and a half years what did the SYRIZA government do? And the first water route was signed in 2014 in Corfu. And what did SYRIZA do for four and a half years? New Democracy again comes with the current leadership of the Ministry of Transport and updates the electric cars and modernises the legislation on the water routes. Two other waterways were even recently signed. So you know what? Don't play with our intelligence. It makes no sense, no meaning at all. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the first pilot project for electric cars was also in Kozani, with the cooperation of the Municipality of Kozani with PPC, and it is now being implemented and functioning properly. We must therefore carefully assess the needs of citizens, businesses, the particularities of mode of transport, in order to ensure sustainable mobility in cities. I was reading a post the other day saying that sustainable mobility is a journey to the details of the city. Really, how true this is! I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this bill, to work together by taking on the responsibility that each of us has for it, so that our fellow citizens can find something different, so that we can achieve urban mobility, sustainable, safer, more secure, better quality of our lives, with a vision of innovative and functional issues for our society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u175	Here, Minister, you have the floor. I imagine it's for the modification, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u176	No, Mr. President. These are some legislative improvements. We collect all the amendments - they are not many - and we will distribute them and we will support them shortly afterwards. We are therefore putting forward some legislative improvements and I urge you, Mr President, to be distributed to Members for information.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Charalambos Papadimitriou from New Democracy, who is elected to the B3' South Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think it would be a scene from another world, from another country, if we could discuss calmly so progressive and positive things - possibly arguing - that improve life, improve coexistence conditions, and above all give the citizen the right to do what he has been so missing, so much, to take a walk, to take his bicycle, not to believe or not to be afraid of having an accident. Luckily, a lot of people do. We learned in this period. I think that the regulations are positive, and here I think Parliament is divided, that is, when something is positive, and we are voting on it, and we are seeing whether something - and we have heard very interesting remarks obviously - we want to add. Here we are adding it or improving it in the next minute. The crucial thing is, in my opinion, that we are gaining tools that we admired until some time ago when we were visiting - it has been a long time! - another country that had already done it. So we can only support this codification that the Ministry is trying to codify on the issues of mobility and microcirculation, and I think that it should be completely intensified, Minister, and the issue of protection helmets in Greece, especially in Athens and in other cities, especially because we are in a place where, thank God, many tourists prefer to take such instruments to move. So I think that's all positive and we have absolutely no problem going down. With regard to driver training, although the provision is positive and sufficient, I am generally in favour of the opinion - and I would ask you, Minister, to see it as soon as you find the time - to put a limit on the motorcycle, not on the basis of cubic as it is now, but on the basis of the power of the motorcycle. Thirty-five kilowatts, say, are very good. That they need more mobility courses is clear. The school must also enter them, that is to say, the municipalities must pass on lessons and the schools at least put the issue of the COK somehow, because the truth is that we are not very good at this issue, and that is why we have an increase in the dead - these days statistics have come up - but fortunately, a reduction in other kinds of accidents. Another increase we had - strange in the sense that we did not expect it - is in industrial production which was announced just now and shows that the economy is really trying to get better and finding opportunities - are the households, of course, who mainly increased the consumption of electricity and caused this increase - but we do not let it literally go ahead. And here is the whole story that I imagine tomorrow the parties' leaders will have the opportunity not to cross-check their swords, as the journalists usually say, but to discuss and put an end to where we can get to this country. I honestly understand the need for many, even fellow Members, who should give another tone when they speak, go out of the house, walk free. And I must tell you that I get messages from people - I have always had people to talk - who have voted for our party and the exact same message reaches everyone, that 'we can't take it anymore'. There is no question of that, we do not disagree on it. The issue is from there on how to deal with it. To manage it in a positive way, it must be done in a safe manner when it is done. And the truth is that that's why there's no guarantee. And there is no guarantee for the simple reason that here there is a paradox opposition, which, unfortunately, has been taken over by the Civic Opposition. And because, apparently, he doesn't make it enough, he's also got help from the Communist Party of Greece in the last few days. There's no problem. You can get back together. The story is open for all versions. But telling people "go and get smacked with the first cop you're going to find", because you know very well the weaknesses that exist in all countries and that it can be found, as unfortunately it was found, a man who, at the time of duty, forgets what to do, forgets what to do, does not take the country forward and does not go any of us ahead. You saw it and you tried it, unfortunately. And that is why today I think the televisions were an endless henhouse, in the sense that there are also hens in it. That's what I mean. Don't look like that, Mr. Catarini.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u179	Didn't we hear it well?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Zachariadis, you didn't understand either. I get it, yeah. Because you realise that when you go and put the trumpets on the front line of your own drunkenness, that's where you're gonna hit her first. And literally, if we didn't have - unfortunately we had a major injury and four other injured police officers - you might say that the police went to scare people who were demonstrating peacefully. What frightened you was precisely that, while you had predicted it, you did nothing to prevent it. It's proof that while you're putting the panoramic ahead while you're making announcements for people to go, you didn't go yourself. You yourself do not go to these gatherings, because you know very well the enormous responsibility you would have had if you had. Since we have referred to the JRC colleagues who are missing, I am very sorry to note that today we have had a characteristic incident which shows how close you have come when you are going to hit normality. Unfortunately, Mrs Canelley, who is a dear colleague and we have known many years between us, as she has done, has said and has therefore said that she will never go to see Mr Economou again on his show. If possible at this time, we have such incidents and there is such isolation of parties from the news and from their ability to explain their positions! Now, if the positions have to be explained by using words - you have said so too, some - which are inconsistent with the right television work, then I think my colleague, Dimitris Economou, and very badly my colleague, Liana Kanelli. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Papadimitriou. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios from SYRIZA, Dodecanese. And I want you calm from here on the right, don't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. I'm always cool, Mr. President. Sometimes, okay, I get away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u183	I said the ones on the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Member has used a strange expression. So he said that we were afraid - not to say anything else - of the responsibilities we have. What responsibilities do we have, Mr Colleague? What responsibilities do we have? Who do you really think downloaded all this world? Because by referring only to the incidents, you are essentially insulting the thousands of people who were there in a peaceful district in Athens to condemn police violence. And you know what? Obviously, and we strongly condemn this attack taken by a worker, because the police are workers and they are workers at the service of civil security. Some, however, want to make them their organs, enforcement bodies. And that is the mistake the government is making, and that is the absolute responsibility of the government. You must also address it, because the government and Mr Mitsotakis personally did not have the courage to condemn the violence wherever it comes from. Convict one side of violence. The other one did not see it, the other one expressed on Sunday, but was also expressed yesterday with a pogrom of attacks. Because I don't know if you've seen the relevant videos immediately afterwards. There were pogrom attacks on children, women. Without any reason these attacks were made. Well, then I think Mr. Mitsotakis is wrong. Because, in order to ensure unity - and one colleague rightly said that unity is not ordered - one must condemn violence from everywhere. And we condemn her from everywhere! And to be clear here and to know what we're saying, we have nothing to do with terrorism. I heard the ridiculous argument - and I cannot say otherwise - by a collapsing colleague that we are dealing with Chrysochide, he says, because he took 17 November! Ladies and gentlemen, I have one thing to say to you. Our Left, the Left expressed by SYRIZA, is the Left that has chosen to be against terrorism against any terrorist action. Because terrorism is slandering the struggles of the people, it is slandering the struggles on the left and it is our main enemy and we have been against it since our party was founded so far. And you are not going to confuse us and charge us with relations with terrorism. Of course, we have also heard the dreadful arguments of non paper about Tsipra's interview. Honestly! An interview given a month ago, do you have the nerve to use it, to say that the president of the L.A. gives cover to yesterday's incidents? Aren't you embarrassed? That's enough with the montase! The Maximo model and the ERT model yesterday, which Mr Romans reproduced shortly afterwards. And I close with it and close by repeating that we condemn violence from everywhere. And we wish that man, the policeman, is fine, because he's a simple worker, and we're right next to the workers. I'm going to the bill. Climate change and the overconcentration of the population in urban centres have led to the need to organise the urban area. Already since the 1990s and especially the 2000s, lighted local people have gone to early urban planning with bicycles, pedestrian roads, with mild traffic in urban centres. As a government, we said it before we legislated and tried early to systemize the concept of the CVA and we were the ones who brought the country's legal order. We set up an Interministerial Committee for the implementation of the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans in 2016. A hundred and sixty two municipalities were financed to implement Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans from the Green Fund in 2016. The Department of Transport, the Department of Sustainable Urban Mobility, was set up and, finally, article 22 of Law 4599/2019 was passed, which brought the CBAKs to the legal order. What's left? There was a CFD version left to implement this article. And instead of that, there was a bill that could be a CIA. I told the committee that, Minister. I understand you want to put your seal on, and that's good. And I'm glad you said you were continuing the previous project. What is absent from legislative intervention? There is no connection between the CVA and town and country planning and planning. In other words, it is impossible to become a strategic planning of the site if it is not chosen with the corresponding mandatory planning of the site, which is spatial planning and urban planning. The implementation arrangements of the CVA are also missing. So, how are implementation studies going to be carried out? What financial protocols will there be? Where will the funding be ensured? How will the implementation projects be financed? And of course, it's also the motives. I said that to the committee. You know, I have the example of Rhodes, which is a bad example. We went to make a network of bicycle roads, but that's what bothered parking. Who won, you know? The parking lot. Guaranteed funding has not been implemented. We, as a government, made an invitation to open malls. What are open malls? At the same time, companies around a pedestrian road, a bicycle route, should be financed to accept this change. I hear that this does not go any further, and I would like you to take a special interest in it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say a few words about islands, Mr President. Missing insularity. He's talking in the bill, yeah. But what is it about? That projects for island municipalities will also involve representatives of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. Do you know what the size of the General Secretariat is? It is a skilled secretariat with very little staff and especially so specialized staff. So he has no sense, nothing else, no other reference. And you know, almost all of the islands of our country are under thirty thousand inhabitants, so it's not about them. You are not taking the islands into account at all. But even for what should be considered, parameters such as seasonality, such as island capacity, should be introduced. In other words, the movement in the islands cannot be constantly increased. Somehow we have to get that together. But this must have a combination with the tourist movement. I bring you examples: Santorini - you know what's going on there -, Mykonos and Rhodes. At the same time there are islands - small - where there are settlements that are preached, such as Hydra, Symi, Kastelorizo, Patmos. There we need to provide outlets so that we can serve the traffic, but at the same time also ensure the image of these settlements. And perhaps something that evades this project is the connection between the islands and the metropolitan islands. A lot of islands, such as Leipzig - Leros or Nisvros - Kos - must be served almost daily by a larger island. I'm just giving examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u185	And slow down - please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u186	Here, then, we took the first step. We have been subsidised - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - the movement with the equivalent of transport. However, we need to develop an insular network, which will be with green energy, in other words with green ships. There is a study by the Greek Chamber of Shipping, which we had financed as a Ministry of Shipping, which can also be financed from the Cohesion Fund and from the European Investment Bank - lending - and from the European Fund for Strategic Investments and at the same time developing the relevant port infrastructure to ensure that they can operate. Therefore, Minister, I think that the bill - my own opinion - is positive - but I think that we should see much more the island area and, if you like, we can work together on it, because we have proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, too. We closed the second circle of speakers with a physical presence. We're entering the third cycle with a natural presence. I say this above all so that the Members who are via Webex can have a picture. The third cycle is opened by John - Michael Loverdos of the Second Western Athens Sector of New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today is another proof that the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis is doing everything possible to keep her reform work alive in conditions of unprecedented pandemic that all of us have terrified us, have brought us to a very difficult position, the whole of mankind. The majority rapporteur, Mr. Sedetakis, explained in detail what this bill includes. It is very interesting that speakers have said exactly what is included in this bill. I don't want to get into this. I would like to respond to something I have heard here that is being done by Vice-Population MPs, that it is allegedly the means of transport that convey the virus. I always say things the way I feel them out of teeth. I personally have no special relations with the Minister, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, or with the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis. We are not friends, we are not hanging out, but I have to tell you that at the time these posts are held, I appreciated them. Why? Because they're doing their job seriously. Whenever you have something to say to Costas Karamanlis, he hears you, and I think that's very important. It's unfair to blame him for the means of transport. It has received a situation which has already been otherwise - particularly in the field of the Lecade bus sector - nightmare. He tried to do everything he could with data on the problems that existed in the system. The situation has improved somewhat, but of course it is not ideal and how it could be. You know, I represent a region, West Athens, which, thanks to the subway, has changed its transport work on the better. But it's not good enough. There are areas like Illion, Petroupoli, Cameroon that still have problems. Kostas Karamanlis listened to them and tries to make the appropriate changes, but neither the time has any potential. You know how slow the procedures of the Greek government are. That is why I think it is unfair to blame the means of transport, the government and the Ministry of Transport on the subject of means of transport. Look, let's say things with their name. Of course, the virus is transmitted into buses. If there is too much crowd and if the passengers do not wear their mask of course and will be transmitted, as is being broadcast everywhere in the stores, and in the centers, and in the cafes, and, of course, in the gatherings, in the rallys, like what we have today, now, here outside the House, the new rally! We've reached the point in the middle of pandemic and lockdown having more rally than I've ever remembered in the thirty-five years I've been a professional journalist. Every day a rally, but every day!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u189	Doesn't it surprise you how well you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u190	Now I'll answer you, Mr. Zachariadis, don't rush. The point is that given the current circumstances in the country, the parliament operates. It doesn't work as we all would like. Of course I would like to see the Chamber filled. Of course I'd like us to be able to all be here. However, given the pandemic and thanks to the new technological means, the House operates and works for the benefit of democracy. You know, Mr Mitsotakis, whom I have known since he was still a student, and the overwhelming majority of New Democracy officials and members believe that Parliament and the institutions are very important. We want the upgrading of Parliament. We want the strengthening of our democracy. And that is why the House operates and operates properly in the middle of a pandemic. There's democracy in here. It is often wondered whether the opposition is out there with democracy. Yes, there's democracy. Not only is there a democracy, there is the best democracy that the Greek state has ever shaped in the 200 years of its existence. Never before since post-population and then we didn't have such a strong and good democracy, with its problems. Of course it doesn't work perfectly. No country in the world works perfectly. But that, instead of saying and saying - why you say that, Mr Giannoulis, Mr Zachariadis - that democracy is not working. My opinion is that at the present time there are serious problems caused by pandemic. I understand the psychology of the world. We are all extremely pressurised and very concerned about this situation. We hope that soon we will be able to say that we have been relieved, that the pandemic is over and that we can return to normality thanks to the vaccines and the impeccable and exemplary way that this effort to vacate the Greek population is taking place. But that is what is happening today with the phenomena of violence and terrorism in our country. I am very pleased that both the representatives of SYRIZA and my friend Nektarios Santorinios have previously deplored the events that took place yesterday in Nea Smyrni and I am pleased that everyone has expressed their support for the policemen who today are fighting very much, some even for their health. The phenomenon of violence from wherever it comes is unacceptable, it is a disgrace for our democratic system. New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis renounce the violence from wherever it comes, and that is why in the video we saw the day before yesterday, which was a bad moment for a certain police officer, this police officer was immediately ordered, and the government denounced these images. But that is another thing to get to the other end that we saw yesterday in Nea Smyrna. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the police are the children of the people and the police are workers we must respect, as we must respect them all in a free country, in a democracy, as we want Greece to be. And I do not want to give you any advice, gentlemen of SYRIZA, but the logic that I see emphatically emphatically with some - I am not saying that it applies to everyone - the logic that, with the squares of the indignant and the rallys, we will return to power, I fear it is wrong. In 2011, 2012 and 2015 are over. Today is a new reality and the Greek citizens want security, we want a legal order with respect for law and democracy, which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy will safeguard in every possible way. Democracy is strong and will become stronger, and all the wings of this House must agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. And now we're going to SYRIZA and more specifically to Mr. Miltiades Hatzigiannakis from beautiful Evia. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you the truth, I will be tempted today not to respond to any of the colleagues in the New Democracy, although you understand that this is difficult one day after the bad incidents which have occurred and to what we hear and to which we cannot answer them. I understand my fellow Members, but also the rest of the Opposition, listening to things they have to give answers. So I am going to start today and stay only in the bill we are discussing today. However, I will make a very small comment on something personal, because I have heard Mr Papadopoulos and now Mr Loverdos. In fact, Mr Papadopoulos has also congratulated the police officer's SAD. I would remind you that in October at the great gathering of the outcome of the Golden Dawn trial, I myself had been attacked by a police officer with a tear gas that hit me. I've been called for SAD, because then there's been an SAD ordered, but the more you know the outcome of the SAD - I've also tabled my own people - and I know it, too. And I say that to put things in the right dimension, which I will try to do today for the bill we are discussing. I really did not come here today in the mood to oppose and I will not make any opposition comments. I will simply try to make some remarks that will help improve all the projects that concern, to tell you the truth, in the first part of the bill, the CVA. As self-government and as a man who is also involved in self-government today, I will only insist on this part. As the previous speakers have said, and you know too, Mr Bakoyannis - and so that there is no misunderstanding about my position, I would like to make it clear that I naturally mean Mr Ethynims Bakoyannis - it is the link between the two legislative provisions on Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. Last night, by chance, without even knowing that I am a Member of Parliament and that we will discuss the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans today, namely the law you are bringing to the vote, I was called by a Greek engineer from Germany, who works in a company that provides digital transport services, which are now in Europe and Germany, a service of passenger services and services that meet demand. Germany and the other advanced countries are already conducting such smart digital transport management models. And quite rightly you put on the axes of the bill, and all the remarks I've seen that Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans have three axes. One is obviously the environmental factor, because we must target the environmental factor. The second is social justice, it is clear - because I entered and searched the svak.gr and did my study - and the work and, of course, the fair growth that they can bring. So this particular lady, this engineer, was trying to ask me - and I repeat without her knowing my capacity, we just had a teleconfers - which she needs to address to see whether they have the potential to implement in Greece, in the municipalities of Greece, in Greece, in the programmes in question. He has been looking for it for some time and informed me that the Germans until a few months ago considered Greece to be a lost case, because quite simply and not to be fooled by each other since the Green Fund's plan for the realisation of the sixty-two Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans came in and Article 22 and the current law. Minister, in today's law debate, I have no fundamental objections to how you deal with it, how you bring the legislative framework, and how we adapt it. However, what frightens me is that in fact - something that your rapporteur knows very well, because he is an engineer, he is a young man and he understands what is happening - if tomorrow we ask the sixty two municipalities that have already built the CVA - whether they have been approved or not approved by the procedure of both laws, and the present and the previous one - if we can move on to their implementation, the answer will be 'no'. And this question is very simple and concerns the studies envisaged, the implementation studies, the transport studies, urban renewal studies and all these studies. Also, if we ask whether we will be able to do so after the vote on this bill, the answer, unfortunately, will be 'no' again. There will be an institutional framework for how the CVAs should be. It may be that in the next few years - and you do well to do it if you want me to do so at this time to force municipalities and institutions, because it is not just the municipalities that are the regions, it is also the regions that are the others - to implement those who have not done or to adapt what they have done, but unfortunately there is no design. And you should sit down, and we should also help in this direction, make a planning of how the actions, both the studies involving all these Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans and, above all, the projects, will be financed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not go far, Mr President. For example, the local villages, in my personal view, were wrongly taken from the municipalities and placed the responsibility centrally with the Ministry, because the Ministry will not be able to implement them easily. It is self-evident and has nothing to do with the accomplishment that your Government is serving. It had been programmed, we had designed a "Philodimo" program, which would build the local villages. Should we not make a similar programme for all the axes that will emerge from these studies, from the projects? Because the SBAKs are plans, they are the portrayal of the current situation and the design, the vision that each municipality or region wants to put. Shouldn't we be serious about this? Or are we going to get back to four, five years that the CVAs will have to be renewed, and eventually not a single project will have been done and it will be a blank letter again and we will discuss again how we will succeed, will we follow Europe again as a forerunner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too. To be transferred to the beautiful Kefalonia to Mr. Panayia Cappato of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a common assumption that sustainable development as a public policy objective, but also a direction of civil society itself, has been increasingly concerned with us in recent years. With the priorities of national and European governance to include environmentally friendly policies, the reason why we are discussing such an important issue today is obvious. So what is the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport? What needs are we facing today in order to guarantee tomorrow a sustainable, simpler and more modern way of life? The answer lies in the duplicate of sustainable urban mobility and micro-mobility, as the title of the bill under discussion. The first part concerns Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, our legislative intervention is serving a series of social, environmental and economic priorities. By designing sustainable urban mobility, we are adopting guidelines concerning, among other things, public transport, non-motorised instruments and innovative intelligent transport systems. At the same time, cooperation between the various levels of administration and self-government is ensured and the participation of citizens is guaranteed. In addition, it is a rule of a successful public policy that the guidelines which are being legislated to obtain broad acceptance by the citizens. The second part of the bill relates to the micromobility in which, for the first time, rules of movement are laid down for light personal electric vehicles. With this intervention, we complement the institutional gap that has been highlighted and provide for rules on road safety and safety. With the bill including a series of necessary, innovative and modern regulations, let me focus on just one provision under Article 62. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Lexiri and Pali have experienced a severe multiple crisis in recent years as a result of the earthquakes that hit our place in 2014. With the Kefalonia Prefecture in emergency, the problems we were asked to face were unprecedented. However, unprecedented, it is also the fact that much of this still concerns us. The legislative regulation we are voting on today therefore addresses these problems. With Article 62 for the rebuilding of the labour houses of the Municipality of Lixouri, the road finally opens, so that our fellow citizens who were affected were justified, a vindication that comes several years after the destructive earthquake, as well as the devastating indifference of the period 2015-2019. This indifference has been paid by the people of Palis, for whom we are intervening today in voting on this arrangement, a provision which is a precondition for the reconstruction of the work houses and comes up with decisions by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on the procedure for studying and auctioning the project. I therefore feel obliged to thank the State Secretary, Mr Kefaliannis, his colleagues, as well as those who have been involved in the process. It is worth noting the speed at which we acted in the case of the 'January' cyclone and in the course of the compensation. At this time we have fresh memory of oligoria and dramatic delays in the compensation of seismic soldiers by SYRIZA rulers. In the case of 'Janu', reflexes and the acceleration of bureaucratic procedures have responded to our calls for effectiveness by deciding on the next day of the Prime Minister himself. It is a success credited to the present government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The regulation we are voting on now enables the repair procedures of the dwellings of the Municipality of Lixouri to be accelerated. I urge you, Minister, to reaffirm our readiness to deal with the problems that arise until reconstruction. The citizens of Kefalonia and Ithaca see, judge and understand our qualitative difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. Mr Anastasios Hatzidis has the floor from the New Democracy from the Serres.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a brief comment on the current situation. First of all, violence is totally unacceptable. The events we saw last Sunday were horrible, so the police have been suspended and the government has asked for the entire case to be investigated. Another such hideous and perhaps more were yesterday's events in Nea Smyrna. The life of a new police officer who just did his job was at stake. People were injured and property destroyed. The Prime Minister called on Mr Tsipras to assume his responsibilities yesterday and not to undermine the tension and circumvention of measures against pandemic, especially now that we have a difficult health situation. We all lived the upper square and lower square, and we all know what consequences this had for our democracy. So let us not let that happen again. Society is afflicted by the pandemic and its economic consequences. We call on all forces to stand up to circumstances and not to feed extreme behavior. I'm moving on to the bill now. Mr President-in-Office, 'government government' means to provide for what is coming. That is why today I am very happy to discuss an innovative and innovative bill that gives solutions to problems of the present and creates prospects for the future. It is a bill with multiple objectives to better quality of life for citizens, better protection of the environment, savings of resources and the creation of a framework for developing and exploiting the country's capacity for scientific capacity. Yes, we want young people to stay here, create new scientific knowledge in our country. This bill follows on from the spatial law, which improves the conditions of construction in our villages and cities. Today, then, the government also improves working conditions, always looking at the future. The aim is to create a better urban environment, with fewer pollutants, less noise pollution, more pedestrian spaces, facilities for disabled people, better organised transport and sophisticated means of transport. And all of this is not fragmented, but instead it is part of a broader planning. Technology offers unique opportunities, which we are currently making as much use of as possible, in order to achieve better living and, of course, greater protection of the natural environment. In conjunction with the Electricity Act, the current bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport proves one thing, that the government has a comprehensive and coherent plan to improve the daily lives of citizens and implements it without delay. The Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, which this bill brings, will enable each municipality to predict, plan and implement its own separate programme. This shows the importance that the government attaches to cooperation with local authorities and, above all, with local communities. Thus, in practice, each municipality will make a comprehensive plan for the movement of pedestrians and vehicles, delimiting parking spaces, soft traffic lanes, the supply of shops and bus services, with a view to improving overall mobility and, of course, to promoting the necessary traffic. The central administration now responds to the consistent demand made by the municipalities for support in the field of transport regulations. The single rules and specific requirements set out in the drafting of these projects are, of course, with the highest European standards. So urban mobility now enters the 21st century and the government gives the clear signal that the country is not being seen in developments. In practice, the constant increase in traffic goods is, of course, demanding the implementation of mobility plans, so that we no longer live in urban centres with bottles, pollution and noise pollution. One of the many issues which, fortunately, is regulated is that of the transit centres, so that one city is not overly burdened by the transport of goods. This also concerns many cities in the region, like mine, the Serres. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on two important regulations that pave the way for the future. The first concerns microcirculation. The electric-powered skates and bicycles and the corresponding means of transport of small speeds have now entered for the good in our lives. Yes, the legal framework has not provided for it and we have often been faced with unpleasant situations in the past, but today the government is finally coming and slowly covering a large and important gap. Our cities are not designed for Cadillac nor have five lanes. So these small wheelsets, the so-called light personal electric vehicles, are the future of movement for city narrows and their historic centers. So now we are gradually forming an integrated framework for safe use, and let us give them a chance. The second issue is self-driving. This draft law introduces innovative provisions for the autonomous driving of urban buses. For many, of course, such arrangements may be heard as scientific fiction scenarios, but the reality is now. We have all heard of the excellent research work that has been done, for example, in the town of Trikala. Even Tesla, which is the first in its own field, has already launched an important research cooperation in our country, which is a great opportunity to develop. Ladies and gentlemen, the government today sends a strong signal to the international community and investors that Greece is ready to accept and promote the implementation of innovative technology. We are sending out the message that we are not a piggybacker, but instead we are claiming to be a pioneer. As a young man and as a new MEP, I am very pleased that the government, despite the unfavourable conditions, remains stable and committed to its planning, draws up new roads that lead to the future when, unfortunately, some remain stuck in the past. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidis. We continue with Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis from the B1' North Athens section of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u198	It is truly unbelievable that the government of Mr.Mitsotakis managed to turn peaceful and peaceful neighborhoods, which for decades have been a place of relaxation for children, young people, for workers and workers, for retired people, into a battlefield, where physical integrity, even the life of american walkers, as well as police, is endangered. And I want from this Step forward to wish a quick recovery to the police officer who was injured yesterday. I want to be absolutely clean, as we have always been clean to SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Violence is not treated with violence. Violence breeds and reproduces violence, creates a vicious cycle of violence, which always favours the most powerful, which can exercise all forms of violence. Violence teaches society to live in fear and tension, disciplines everyone, disciplines those who practice it and those who do it and, of course, discipline those who legalize it and those who tolerate it. So the intensification that is being organised by the government is undermining social peace, normality, security and balance, which we so much need to mediate the health and economic crisis. I therefore claim, and we claim that it is a government strategy to increase acidification, violence, repression, division and division. It is her choice, because she has never asked and has never discussed the Alvizatou Commission's conclusion, and has been tabled since May 2020 and we have March 2021. It is her choice, because it targetes peaceful mass democratic struggles and smacks them with acts of violence completely critics. It's her choice, because she poisons the public speech with insults and slanders. It is her choice because she has issued non - paper aimed at beaten citizens for his political opinions and illegally published his name. It's her choice, because she's in her DNA. Because this was always your rapporteur, the Right: Violence, lies, slander, hypocrisy and corruption. And since I'm talking about corruption, Mr. Voridis gave a direct assignment of EUR 3 million of the information campaign to the Greeks abroad to a company with which the New Democracy was cooperating in an election to campaign her? I remember that in these benches, from that step forward, Mr Theodorikos, his predecessor - and from what Mr Vorides and Mr Gerapetitidis told us, this government has continued - it was committed that it will not bring a list of Pechas to inform the Greeks abroad. We therefore denounce this practice. We ask you to get it back and we tell you that with the provenors no one should be able to play micro-party and micro-political games, most importantly he cannot use the Greek people's money to campaign and fund companies used by his party in the election. Because the world can't forget who you are, where you come from and what you're doing. I would like to say that the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, as a force of democratic stability, as a force of social cohesion, as a force of peace and normality, will always be on the side of solving the problems. You all have the question why people go out on the street and if these are organized by SYRIZA and if these are motivated by Tsipras, etc. First of all, you do not have a tradition in social struggles, but I want to inform you - because some of you in previous years have come to marches and protests - that this is how democracy works in the West. How do we do it? There is this part of the operation in the West and in Parliament. There's a social protest. So he changed the result in the United States of America with the great Black Lives Matter movement. How do we do it? Can anyone blame those who protested there that they did it on purpose to make each other sick, or to make his neighbor sick? When a man comes out and protests, he doesn't go out either to stick a coronary or stick to his side. Think about it. You may disagree, many times, me and today, and in previous years I have had disagreements. But try to realize why a world is protesting. Think of how democracies work. Listen to the world. You cannot get any messages, you live away from the issues of the great social majority. With regard to the bill, you have virtually nothing changed in traffic on the streets. Restore part of old laws. You are bringing all this together as something new, you are supposed to speed up the training and approval of the CDIs. We do not see this and what you ultimately care about - and it is the result - is the removal of responsibilities from the local authorities, which you carry exclusively to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. And here, then, we have an OTA degradation. The worst thing is that you keep the time of approval of the action plans - two months - and, at the same time, you remove the right of approval and opinion from the relevant Ministry, the Ministry of the Environment, which is ultimately the funder of the drafting of the CVA through the Green Fund. So there is no control from anywhere. The aim of environmental protection goes "a walk". In the part of the SVAK bill, only the word ‘bicycle’ is mentioned once. There's no mention of walking. You are referring to the pedestrian movement in introductory form. What does that mean? Of course, nine times you refer to road safety, for which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has already taken action. You're not bringing anything new to the city road map. You are not talking about targets in relation to the reduction of pollution and noise. You are transferring responsibility for drafting projects to the regions. So you are fragmenting the work and responsibilities of the municipalities. One more thing and I close with that, Mr President. In a pandemic period, your bill completely ignores the new EU directives on migration policies designed to avoid health risks. And here the omission must be random. Rather, it does not interest you to set within the bill new guidelines for urban transport in the midst of the pandemic. The people who stack in public transport every day to go to their jobs you haven't seen them. Of course! Because in the morning, when the dock is filled in the subway train, this is a course. The course that's on the outside, you see it. The ones that go in the subway you don't see. And Mr Mitsotakis comes here and tells us that he is 'not stuck'. So we are making this criticism. We are voting in favour of some articles and we are here - from both the domestic and infrastructure sectors - to work together and propose solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. Mr. George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to my previous colleague at the beginning condemning violence wherever it comes from. It has, however, consumed 60% -70% of its time with an extremely divisive reason and with acute expressions. He tried to enlist the entire social struggles, social protest. I would like to ask him if this is about social protest, these bottles that are filled with concrete liquid and that participated in this demonstration the other day. And I testify. [[At this point, the Member, George Kotsos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Are these to be done, fellow Members, by social protest, by spontaneous gathering? In any case, is this a proper period for doing such procedures? Of course, it is a democratic right for every citizen to protest, as is work. But under the very delicate conditions that we have been experiencing in recent years, we must all be careful. If nothing else, it is not enough simply to say that we condemn violence wherever it comes, and at the same time, when we use the public word, to resort to acute, intensely contradictory expressions that trigger such procedures. Yes, if anything, I listen with interest to your support for the police officer who suffered the injuries. In general, however, you have so far shown that you have a intolerance towards the police officers, as if they are not hard workers, as if they are not children of popular order who are trying through their specific professional activity to stand in society, as if they should not have the full support of all of us. Of course, we must also stand against those who are being perpetrated with excessive violence unjustifiedly. I believe that, if anything, what is important at this time is all the political forces, through the consistency, through a mild speech, to help reduce all this displeasure and pressure on the Greek people because of the pandemic and because of the lockdown, which really works on the psychology of our fellow people. I'm coming to the bill now. In the last sixty years, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there has been a dramatic increase in the population of cities. Unlike the 1950s, where only 30% of the population lived in cities, this figure now amounts to 55%. And according to the UN figures, in 2050 this will extend to 68%, while on the European Union this will reach 82%. So we have a great differentiation as to where people will live from now on. We have a great deal of overconcentration in urban centres. Indeed, by improving the standard of living of our fellow citizens, there are more and more of those fellow citizens using vehicles to make their moves. All this must therefore be taken into account seriously in order to make a serious planning for the cities that we are going to be living on and which we want to live from now on. That is why one of the greatest environmental challenges facing the European Union is mobility. Sustainable mobility, therefore, concerns the daily movement, from going to friend, going to our family, going to work, going to fun, to tourism, to the proper functioning of domestic and international supply chains. Mobility is a catalyst of our economic and social life. This draft law, therefore, is a serious effort made by our Government, in cooperation with local government, always - because it will be the body responsible for implementing all these actions - in order to enhance sustainable mobility in urban centres, which have an increasing population, for the benefit of the environment, safety and the health of citizens. Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are key tools for providing suitable and safe mobility solutions for all citizens, taking into account the particular needs of vulnerable groups, such as disabled people, mothers, etc. So these answers come to give this draft law, approaching the future and planning mobility in cities, bearing in mind the needs of modern society. For this reason, local urban planning and urban mobility are not only a matter for the central government or local government, but also for the whole civil society. And it is imperative that this should be planned in a conversation, in conciliation, with all citizens, but also with those who express citizens. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is the city that gave birth to the citizen, who gave birth to politics that gave birth to culture. So, in a modern civilised society, politics is required, if anything, to develop actions so that the city is friendly, secure, positive, toward the citizen and to help the citizen experience the best possible conditions in a large urban environment. Here I would like to tell you that our aim is also to lead internationally, but also European, and we have done so. I'll remind you what happened in Trikala by bus without a driver. In fact, it was an innovative plan, an innovative action. In my town, Karditsa, we have an extremely large, dense network of bicycle roads and this environmentally friendly and also toward the citizen. Of course, I have heard a colleague before saying that these kinds of actions often also raise social reactions. Because when there is an acquired speed of using the car and you restrict the use of the car, which is legitimate - because we need to give the citizen more space now, the citizen, the public, the pedestrian, the man who moves on his feet - there is the reaction and the power of inertia. I think, however, that through persuasion, through concrete planning and always in conversation and in dialogue with local society and with the social partners, we can overcome these issues in the best possible way. I would like to point out this here, Minister. Because the SBAKs are referring to cities of over thirty thousand inhabitants, to limit policing - which seems to be getting worse by and from now on - it is important to create regional centres, small towns and small towns, small stirring centres for police, as well as strengthening their actions. I mean the capitals of the municipalities, which may not have a population of thirty thousand - having five, having ten thousand inhabitants - but are regional centres that are really able to keep the population, since they have a satisfactory level of quality of life for the citizens who remain there. I therefore believe that it is important to move forward in that direction, also allowing small Type III urban centres too to make use of these kinds of financial tools, to develop green spaces, to develop bicycle roads, to develop spaces where the citizen really feels that he lives comfortably and of quality. Finally, I would like to point out that the Greek society is ready to make the big leap of changes in behaviour in mobility, because it trusts our Government and wants to shape a modern culture that it deserves, a modern urban environment in which it wants to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u201	Be well. Before I give the floor to the President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to inform you that Member Thesprotia of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, is requesting a short-day absence abroad from 13 to 15 March. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u202	The House therefore approved the requested permission. It's good for him to go, especially, to come back! The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Disschakis, has the floor and we will close the circle of speakers in a natural presence with Mrs Notopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Police are at the service of the state and of society. In a democratic society, unprovoked violence is condemned wherever it comes from. In a derogatory manner, this House, with its structures, requires the application of the criminal and disciplinary rules of the state. But are we all prepared to condemn violence and police? For decades now, the lawmakers in Greece have become the most convenient targets, easy for those engaged in cruel crime, terrorism, revolutionary gymnastics in the squares and since Sunday, targeted and in the neighborhoods. This House is very passionate about the likes of other Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1984 it has counted a hundred and thirty-eight dead, about fifty-dead, heroes of life, crippled in cars, with 92% disability from violent incidents, showing barbarity. The current situation is explosive and critical. The days coming will be gloomy for the fairness, well-being, peace and democracy, if any, of the country. For, over time, pandemics from ancient times followed turbulence, clashes. Before we get to the end, we eat each other. I have a duty to testify to experience and knowledge. I served the country under a slogan "Police with a human face and legal action". I have a historical responsibility to strike the alarm bell on all sides, especially on those who are the professional defenders of defence to those who exercise violence and cruel crime. The Greek state since 1975 acquired the first regulatory law in 2020 on mergers and marches, in implementation of the relevant article 12 of our post-military Constitution. With a design from circles it is broken in cold blood, while the other countries observe them as sacred gospels. The pandemic law is also being violated because of the dangers of confrontation, although the country is in an emergency, but essentially in a siege of siege. Encouraging, impunity, supporting them will have consequences which will be the result of poverty policies. Persons involved in neoterrorism organisations will be re-elected. Detectors in unseen homogeneous circles of terrorism will find the willing neofolites. The blows we will receive will be severe, severe and unprecedented, as can be seen from existing hatred and design by the wrong centers of anti-Police and anti-Government. None of the other professional groups have been given as much pre-compensation, insults and violence as the law-makers of the country and its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time. All the wings must defend our democracy, our homeland, our fairness, the well-being that is being tested. Persistent policies have handed over the historic center to anarchism, Nazism, hard crime. It is the only centre for a European capital that does not shine. We all, as parliamentarians, have to condemn violence, crime, terrorism, anarchism and Nazism in practice. Yes, Minister, we hold the world's originality to have 'anarchist terrorism'. Do we accept it? Give strength to law enforcement bodies. Any criminal offence against them should also be punished by the perpetrators with the principles of peculiarity and not only with regard to the imposition of the penalty and its execution. Let's fight and get over our evil self. We'll stay in history because we defended the rule of law for the hardest. The vast majority of the police are brave and unselfish in the services of the state, they are at the border, in Evros, in my home country, at times of danger among the citizens, at times of danger in the homeland. In defending our democracy, they are at the forefront of the health crisis. I want you to know that you are the defenders of democracy, that this is the last line of defence from democracy, which has been tried repeatedly by aggressive and revolutionary exercise. It's the retreat of the law-abiding citizen against crime. With the same rigour that police violence is being condemned against the citizens, violence against the police must be condemned. Then we will have taken the first step towards a favoured democratic society, which recognises police officers as necessary officials. This must start from this Chamber. As far as we are concerned, this draft law seeks to ensure a better quality of life in Greek cities. The movement in towns is regulated in a holistic way, focusing on human beings and not on motor traffic alone. The decongestion of the city centre is accomplished, as pedestrians now have the first reason. The main objective is accessibility and quality of life, integrating in towns a new culture. The traditional urban transport planning is replaced by Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. The aim is to ensure the sustainability of urban transport in the area of responsibility for the TAs by carrying out road safety projects and facilitating electrification. An innovative and informative regulatory framework is introduced regarding how to move, move and use lightweight Personal Electric Vehicles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Traffic rules are now in place for these vehicles which have been flooding the cities in recent years. This category includes electric skates, wheels, wheelboards and self-balanced vehicles. The specifications and safe use of them are regulated, with emphasis on the mandatory equipment they need to bear. Describe the obligations of the vehicle user, as well as the market issues of such vehicles, such as construction, disposal and provision for their common use. It is also planned to take measures by local authorities to regulate and limit the movement of such vehicles and to identify areas for their organised parking. This ensures better conditions for improving road safety, the importance of which I had successfully raised and implemented from the positions of my old posts in Greek police services up to the position of the Chief of Police, when I had the opportunity, Minister, to offer useful work in both the infrastructures and the drafting of the COK, as well as new operational plans on the prevention of accidents. Now the drivers will be better trained. The institutional framework for diplomas is improved, updated, simplified and modernised. With the provision for a CTEO Controller Register an additional control filter is introduced to the suitability of cars. This is a bill necessary for sustainable movement in our country. A new movement policy is being established, a new culture. The unregulated coexistence of vehicles of all kinds and without conditions and limits with risks to citizens is addressed. I declare that I am voting in favour of today's law. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for your courtesy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u204	Be well. Mrs Catherine Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. So closes the third circle of speakers with a natural presence. Webex should be prepared with Mr Karaoglou and Mrs Kafantari and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Kefaliannis, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, modern urban centres face a number of mobility-related problems, including the lack of a common transport policy, together with environmental, urban development, town planning, public space and health. So to these problems, it seeks to give, we would like to see sustainable urban mobility solved. It was the SYRIZA government that, at the first moment, we recognised this need, systematically launched the introduction of sustainable urban mobility projects into Greek reality, and indeed with the peak of the forecasts of Law 4599/2019. But we didn't just stay on it. We have ensured that these projects are financed through the Green Fund. So, having such an important deposit, your government had the opportunity to present us with an integrated legislative initiative that would also have the consent of all of us. But you didn't. You chose not to. You have been too late, and today you are bringing an incomplete plan that actually ends up losing its own strategic objective because of this one-dimensional approach. It has been explained in detail, in detail, by our rapporteur, Mr Giannoulis, who even tabled very specific proposals for improvements and interventions in this respect. You don't hear that either. So I come from Stepma to ask you, Minister: what innovation are you talking about? What innovation does your draft law introduce for Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans? What point do you think you're going halfway, one step behind and solving problems? Because today you are bringing to the vote a bill that is supposed to speed up the preparation and adoption of sustainable urban mobility plans. However, it actually captures us, as it removes many responsibilities from the local government and transfers them to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Concentration in a final and therefore by definition a failed state. On the other hand, you forget a lot of concepts. For example, the concepts of cycling and pedestrian movement are treated skinally. They do not have the attention of the new conditions. You ignore public health in relation to movements in particular, while it is a key element of Europe's new directives in the pandemic era. You are ignoring climate change. After all, you have again forgotten - as a government - the Ministry of the Environment. You almost forgot walking in this plan, and you forgot about upgrading the public space, which if the pandemic proved something is how much we need it. You have forgotten, on the other hand, the reduction in pollution and noise. All this is a key objective of sustainable urban mobility projects under the European Directives. But you forget them, as you constantly forget the needs of the citizens. Nor, on the other hand, are you laying the foundations for development in order to form modern, sustainable, climate neutral, smart cities that could become tourist destinations that meet modern travellers' demands. However, the most important thing, in my opinion, is bypassing the obligation to coordinate urban and traffic planning. In other words, Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are not linked to spatial and urban projects. You're planning traffic without a spatial plan. You do not take into account the different levels of city planning. So how is the city plan changed? What design is exaggerated? You will come and you will bring back local government and those who plan and those who implement in the known deadlock. These are, in fact, the crucial questions that your Government's legislative initiative should answer. However, you do not respond, you do not clear up matters of competence between the first and second degrees of local self-government that will also be a point of friction. It is missing, and we have pointed it out to you, and we have proposed it, an Observatory for Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. Also, with regard to the micromobility and the use of Light Personal Electric Vehicles - and I am referring above all to electric skates, for example - the fact is that the inability to deal with the traffic problem of urban centres, in conjunction with the pandemic, with the health bombs that you have converted your public transport and your failure, has led too many of our fellow citizens very quickly to the use of these instruments, but significantly increasing the risk since there is no framework. So we need rules. Your bill, however, does not deal with this issue properly either. There are no serious specifications for the safety of users, especially of minors, while the speed limit remains quite high. To close - and I consider it equally important - the bill could include regulations relating to sustainable urban distribution plans, with emphasis on zero emissions of pollutants. The vertical increase in e-commerce use in pandemic conditions came to stay. So it's your obligation to set the specifications and rules. Minister, in closing, I have a few questions for you. You are talking today about sustainable urban mobility by redefining projects. But, really, what do you do for its benefit, when the main aim must be to strengthen clean public transport with regard to the use of IX? You do exactly the opposite. For example, in Thessaloniki, where you particularly love her, your tragic metro manipulations led to an unprecedented new delay in the most basic and clear mode of transport. Thessaloniki, Mr. Karamanlis, would have had a subway before the pandemic took place. Now when? Would you mind giving us a timeline? You've already fallen out of your own forecasts. Neither ancient nor subway, signed by Karamanlis. So at the same time that the global community is also concerned about climate change and environmental impacts, you are the ones who canceled the supply of four hundred and fifty new anti-pollution bus technology for Thessaloniki. And not just that. You have also had Mr Zerva bring you with the money of the citizens 50 shackles and dangerous used vehicles. So when you have consciously not strengthened public transport, our most reliable fellow citizen is aware of the fact that you insist that the coronary does not stick to pasted buses. Besides, it is known that the coronary prefers only the squares. On the other hand, I will refer to Thessaloniki, where your mayor has the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan at a final stage and he knows his basic directions, ignoring it, by conducting fragmentary interventions. Sometimes it cancels public space upgrade projects and sometimes also builds fragmentary cycling roads - a mistreat of the "great walk", without specifications and annuls a very important intervention at the time. So what, basically, are you talking about sustainable mobility? The biggest bet on a Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan - and this is actually its warning difference from all other planning tools - is that these guidelines should not just be accepted, but should be embraced by all stakeholders, from the citizen to the mayor and the Minister. Or it'll fail. But I ask: How will we achieve the objectives of Sustainable Urban Mobility when the Minister, who introduces them, ignores them with his actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, Member of the Thessaloniki Parliament, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by condemning yesterday's extremes and the very bad images of this mess that we saw in Nea Smyrna. I hope, through my heart, wholeheartedly - and I hope to express the whole House - rapid recovery to the special guard of the group 'DRANS' which has been attacked by the known - strangers and his colleagues in hospital. We must coordinate political staff to isolate the extremities, wherever they come from, preventing an effort that is under way by specific cycles of lawlessness, turning squares into a battlefield. I therefore call for cooling and sobriety, a message that safeguards the unity of our people, which in the difficult hours of the pandemic, because of the problems that have arisen from it, must be united. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the duty and obligation of every responsible government, which respects the tasks assigned to it by its citizens in their vote and confidence, is to create a safe future for the country, to exercise effective governance, with a strong political reason, to increase and improve its performance, to disarm the public sphere, to have a perception, to represent the many, to contribute to the transformation of society, to serve, in fact, progressive principles and to embody the future, to have the opportunity to restructure public service and, finally, to place emphasis on everyday life, not only on the great and important things that come from a specific political philosophy and targeting, but also on the small ones, in which the essence of things is often hidden. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In a state with strong elements of participatory democracy, such as our own, the different approaches must not be transformed into an obstacle, but exploited as a source of creation, that is, a stimulus of dialogue, a vehicle of expansion of thought and end up in progress, given that pluralism is a vital element of our democracy. In this context, therefore, in consultation with the relevant social bodies, the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on Sustainable Urban Mobility really puts Greece on the move. It covers the mobility needs of our compatriots today and in the future, setting solid foundations for a better quality of life and better living conditions. At the same time, it modernises, simplifies and digitizes the procedures of this Ministry, clearly explaining the government's plan for Sustainable Urban Mobility, also highlighting the needs of each region. Through an anthropocentric approach, it takes serious account of social, environmental and economic criteria, making it possible for Greece to be high on European targets for sustainable mobility. We are therefore called upon, ladies and gentlemen, to win the bet on the future of our cities. And I believe that with the bill, which we are discussing today, we are taking a big step, an important step in this direction, giving priority to pedestrians, vulnerable users, cyclists, public transport and, of course, to restrict motor traffic. In my personal view - and I think we all agree, those who have taken the floor at least - the Sustainable Mobility Plans change the development model that we want for our countries. It is the tool of decisive urban intervention that will help us overall to change attitudes about our habits and preferences. Especially today, when the so-called "smart cities" are a reality, it must be our property that the microclimate of our everyday life also becomes a cultural dimension after defining our lives and shaping our social behaviour. Obviously, Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are nothing new. However, the way in which we draw up and implement them, meet the needs of each region and reflect our cultural level. As time always runs relentlessly - I will not trouble you, I will seek to be within the timeframe I have for my speech - I will not make a detailed reference to the articles in the bill nor will I go into their specialisation. It goes without saying that it is extremely positive that the draft law establishes for the first time traffic rules for microcirculation, and in particular for light personal vehicles, such as rollers, which have flooded towns. It is also positive that simple and uniform rules are introduced to implement urban intervention projects by local government through these Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. The same, of course, applies also to the development of a favourable framework for harmonious modernising the local mobility in cities with better conditions for improving road safety and by softer means of individual and mass transport, which will be more environmentally friendly. It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, that important regulations are introduced on individual issues relating to the transport sector, with a view to reducing bureaucracy, by simplifying and digitising procedures. Nevertheless, I am consciously opting for a new culture of safe mobility. As Deputy Minister of Home Affairs for Macedonia and Thrace I had the opportunity, working with the Panhellenic Association of Educational and Cyclic Educational Training and President Mars Painting, to launch an action entitled "The road is a teacher". The aim of this action was to raise awareness of the inhabitants of northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace in the field of traffic education. We wanted and want every citizen to be informed of the safe mobility and the rules of good road behaviour, through actions, presentations and specialist exercises on the road, so that all of us become aware of pedestrians and drivers. In one of the meetings of the working parties which had been set up, I presented a report from the Trolley, which concluded that the main causes of road accidents and accidents in our country are speeding up, driving under the influence of alcohol, safety belts and helmets, the use of a mobile phone in driving time and, of course, the breach of priority. Also, according to the same survey, road accidents are a worldwide cause of death, unfortunately, unfortunately, especially among young children, at the ages of fifteen to twenty-nine years and an eighth cause of death in total, with a number of victims greater than those due to war, disease, drug use. Therefore, given that Greece and for demographic reasons it cannot withstand all these ages, I believe that safe mobility must be ours. For reasons of prevention, we must coordinate our actions so that we can transform the spirit of traffic treatment into our compatriots. In this light, sustainable urban mobility will help to shape a traffic ethos. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that traffic education is a matter of education. This is not another obligation, but collective responsibility, and everyone must think that as part of a traffic society - and the driver and the pedestrian - they must show the required respect. Respect is a matter of education. She's taught. To sum up, therefore, with the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, we are becoming societies of the new concept of mobility. This is an essential instrument which will improve our cities and our lives, and it goes without saying that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is voting in favour of it because it helps radically change attitudes and creates a new environmental morality. In short, it offers valuable services that ensure the smooth flow of people, goods and services, preventing environmental deregulation. Greece is changing. Greece is evolving. Greece is in the lead. Greece is re-engaging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u208	Mrs Kafantaris has the floor now from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I cannot join my voice in wishing for the rapid recovery of the worker in the Greek Police who was injured yesterday. I will say a few words because too much has been said. Violence always gives rise to violence. I would like to say to everyone: nobody has come out of a situation of violence and violence. I now come to the draft law which we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen, the SBAKs, the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are a strategic planning of mobility and must always be linked to spatial planning and urban planning. SBAKs, Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are not just transport studies. They must always give a vision, a vision that has a timetable from five to twenty years, I would say, a vision of transport, mobility in this study area, with objectives and a detailed framework description of measures. For the draft law we are debating today in plenary session, I would like to say: There is a pre-process, there is a law that was passed by the previous government, there are European data, there is experience from hundreds of cities across Europe. The question is that European directives should be followed and that there should be a continuation of the state. A government must not come and undo everything that the previous one did. I would specifically say that the European Urban Mobility Platform, which is well-known, includes a short-term strategy implementation plan, defines a time horizon, distributes responsibilities and gives some general guidelines. I'll speak more specifically. In the draft law we are discussing there is one issue: there are regional SBAKs and SBAKs, in municipalities, in the administration of the first degree. How is coordination ensured, a regional ABAN in line with what is being done in individual municipalities or communities? Significant responsibilities are removed from local government by this draft law. Also, very importantly, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, is the absence of the Ministry of the Environment. I say this because when we talk about a sustainable city, when we talk about sustainable urban mobility, we cannot take into account specific issues and effects that exist from atmospheric pollution and pollutants in general in a city, which is also related to transport, we cannot forget biodiversity, nor can we forget a pollutant that is very important, noise, because it is an environmental pollutant. I have personally tabled questions to the Government of New Democracy for the implementation of the noise maps, for the implementation of this directive that the European Union has given. It's a pollutant that shouldn't be underestimated. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the SVA, according to Eltis, the European platform, is to improve accessibility, focus on walking, bicycle, public transport and, more generally, focus on the needs of a functional city. High-level public transport, says the European platform. But there are some issues here. There are public health issues and travel. And here I am going to say that, unfortunately, the New Democracy Government of Mitsotakis managed to divide the Greeks into two categories: those who can do their coronary parties in public buildings - we saw it recently in HELEXPO - following the example of Prime Minister in Parnitha or Ikaria - these things are well known, I do not repeat - but there are people of labor, of daily work, who are stacked on buses at a distance of nothing. All this doesn't help at all. They are barely causing individual problems as well as pandemics which are a serious factor and a risk that we are trying to overcome. It's a global issue, but we're talking about Greece now. Also, there are issues about speed limits in urban areas: thirty miles an hour. But here we are going to say that it is something that comes with emphasis both from the European platform and from the experience of the European cities and from the Stockholm Pact and they have asked for it in the consultation, whether in the House or in the public PR, on the bill, and representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, the cyclists. Gentlemen of the government, a hundred sixty-two SPAKs have been prepared by municipalities. But there is one issue in funding, and that is not solved in the bill. The SYRIZA Government had secured resources from the Green Fund so that they could be completed. When we say that for thirty thousand people and more than one city have to work out a CVA, we really need to see what resources this thing is going to be. The municipalities, as we know, and technical staff are under-represented and the problems are great. In addition, the consultation is of particular importance, as will be the case for consultation of the local community. To close, Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans first of all mean human design at the centre. This is the most important one, which I do not think is served by this draft law. All systems of sustainable mobility must focus on human beings, but also human safety at their core. Because human safety is essential and the Pact must serve the objectives of sustainable development, the global strategy for the health of children and adolescents, what I said before, the Stockholm Pact, as we have said, is also a request. And that is why the reduction in the 30 km speed limit in cities is important and necessary, as has been done in other cities. But if that's not the case, there must be separate strips, distinct strips for small motors, for bicycles, for light vehicles. In conclusion, the planning of urban sustainability must be inspired and be a lever, I would say, transformation of society for the change of established production and consumer standards. Among other things, it must strengthen the development and production of domestic goods - we are talking about productive reconstruction in the country - and the rational replacement of fossil fuels now in a renewable direction. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Yiannis Kefaloyannis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before entering the bill, I must respond to some comments from my fellow Members and, in particular, from the rapporteur of the Civilian Responsibility Officer on the state of public transport. Mr. Comrade, me and the Minister, Mr. Karamanlis, have repeatedly given you the image that we received both in Athens and Thessaloniki and that which we now have. And I think citizens both in Thessaloniki and Athens can compare. It was eight hundred fifty buses and trolleybuses in July 2019 in Lecanopod, a thousand two hundred fifty on a daily basis today, an increase of over 50%. It was 200 fifty five similar buses in Thessaloniki, in your city, and four hundred forty with four hundred fifty at the moment, an 80% increase. Also, for the first time were recruits in critical specialties, i.e. drivers, technicians of six hundred people, both at SSY and at SSY after twelve years. These are the efforts we are making to the government to strengthen public transport. The question is, is there enough? Obviously, and we are in the middle of the road and, of course, Thessaloniki and Athens will be further strengthened by means, but at least, when we make comparisons, I think people can very easily understand what was in place during SYRIZA governance, what is happening today and the titanic project, which we are doing. In fact, it is aid which should have been done independently of COVID, and how much more so when the last year's situation has made it even greater the need to strengthen public transport. You have wondered, Mr Colleague, how we legislate. In fact, I did not understand your phrase that the way the government legislates is a spark. Maybe you can explain it in your dentistry. But I will tell you how your Government was legislating and especially in the field of transport. I would remind you, Mr Colleague, the Diplomas Bill, which resulted in a hundred and five thousand of our fellow citizens waiting to give examinations. It is something that we solved in August 2019 and was able to unlock the process. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how your government has legislated on the waterways. You brought a law, which had to have a multitude of joint ministerial decisions and actually became inactive. Unfortunately, such a development tool for our country for years, on your own responsibility, has not become active. You have legislated on the Triumph - I remember in this House that the Minister concerned was then a special minister and I was a parliamentary representative - in a scandalous way, I would say. The European Commission comes in after years and tells you that you should have a double price and that it should be for less concession time. You did not legislate on the fourth rail package. Three directives should have been incorporated into Greek legislation. Unfortunately, the government has received too many letters from the European Commission about this delay again. That was your way of legislating, and today we come with a piece of legislation, followed by many others, if you like, that we have brought as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and we put in provisions concerning both infrastructure and transport. We do not bring unreported amendments, as you have done on several occasions, and above all we do not bring late amendments, as you have also done on several occasions as a government. I'm coming to the bill now. I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to thank all those who, with their comments and their comments on key issues that the draft law seeks to regulate have been and have had a fruitful dialogue and, in fact, many of the remarks have been accepted. I think we should understand that this draft law invites us all to answer a key question: If we could now imagine our cities after ten years, how would we like to be? Would you like to be cities where our children can play safe? Would we like it to be a place where mild modes of movement, such as microcirculation and the use of public transport, would they be the dominant? We would like it to be a place where accessibility, security and protection in the transport network are ensured for users? We would like it to be a place where organised parking prevails and where technologies will be used to improve road usage? I think that this fundamental question seeks to answer the institutional intervention we are discussing today and an intervention, which has been born from the very social reality and which ultimately wants to express a very basic social need: the need for a better quality of life in the Greek cities to the extent that it depends on the quality of the mobility of all of us. The way this thing is attempting to happen has a name: Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. This is a structured process involving analysis of the current situation, the formation of a common vision, objectives and objectives, as well as the choice of measures and policies, but also active communication, monitoring, evaluation and recognition of basic lessons from this teaching. Which tools are we based on is clear. The European directives and the prevailing trends in the European Union and the Member States. The existence of a CVA in an urban or metropolitan area, but also in one region, will be the necessary prerequisite in the coming years for the financing of European Union interventions and projects. In the next few years it will become compulsory and necessary for local government agencies to be able to absorb Community funds for the implementation of their economic programme. There will also be a need for an integrated and approved plan addressing in a coherent and uniform way all issues relating to the mobility of persons, interaction with land uses and urban space and the impact on the economy and society, as well as employment. With this in mind, the government has taken a step further than many Member States of the European Union. It does not just institutionalise it, it makes it compulsory, especially for Greek cities and municipalities with more than thirty thousand inhabitants. But there is a big difference. It is not here, ladies and gentlemen, that the central state should tell Greek cities what action they will take and what measures they will take. The Greek state is simply coming to set the framework. So the big difference with the past is that cities will decide for themselves. In fact, I wonder whether I can hear many colleagues - they have put it to the Commission and to the plenary - who say that this bill comes to take responsibility from the local government agencies. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, a provision implying this, namely that the central state is coming to take responsibility from the local government agencies. Previous experience has shown that measures and actions decided at central government offices and agencies often do not meet the needs of the region and society. Hereinafter the mandates will be the citizens themselves and the mandates will not be given by the officials or by the central administration, but will not be designed by experts. All concerned public-sector bodies and citizens will plan together. This is an innovation that brings about this legislative framework. Experience has shown that only in this way can strategic planning become sustainable. I am also impressed by the fact that the expedient ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, has reserved itself with a very modest role for the whole process, this characterisation of the CVA and not, of course, its approval, as was wrongly mentioned. The role the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport seeks for itself is none other than the one that will in fact testify to whether or not a specific institutional process has been observed, in which local communities will have the dominant role. Does that mean, ladies and gentlemen, that the central administration will not have any say and role? Obviously, it will. In order for a CVA to be approved, steps have been taken, where the opinion of the central administration is of paramount importance. For example, the issue of urban and spatial planning has been mentioned. Within the process of the CVA, many individual addresses of the Ministry of Environment and Energy will be invited to give an opinion on the actions proposed by local communities. And, of course, their opinion will be crucial. So under no circumstances is what was heard in the Chamber, that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy will not have any role or will the overdesign be respected, which is the town planning or town planning. However, the services and bodies of the Local Government bodies of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy will have a corresponding role. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that the designation of a CVA does not necessarily need to be signed by all of them. What that means is that with this draft law we are making this whole process more flexible and, of course, that the role of local societies, civil society is being strengthened and not what has been heard, that it is absent from the whole process. What has not been understood, however, is that coordination is now being carried out at a low administrative level for the public administration, but too high for local society data. In any case, we have also made some legislative improvements, as the Minister put forward a moment ago, which were a proposal from the committee and the MPs, such as voluntary inclusion in the spatial and urban engineers' work group. We believe that it is necessary, if this is, of course, necessary for local communities as well. What I would like to note on our part is the main contrast between traditional transport planning approaches, in relation to a sustainable urban mobility plan. This concerns the participation of citizens and bodies, the coordination of policies between the various sectors, in particular transport, environmental protection, land use, economic development, social policy, health, security and energy, and in particular broad cooperation at various levels of governance with institutions and individuals. So we call on all the sides of the House to support it as the only way we have available, so that we can have sustainable cities in the future. A broad reference was also made to the financing of the CVA. In fact, if I remember correctly, Mr Santorinios spoke of incentives and counter-incentives to the authorities in order to implement actions that are part of the CVA. We must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, what are the main funding mechanisms for a local government. They are either own resources or the region's Public Investment Programme that can submit proposals on an annual basis, the Ministry of the Interior sectoral programme, the sectoral programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and, of course, all European programmes, whether sectoral or regional. I'm starting with the last one. We must realise that in the next programming period urban mobility projects that are not part of a strategic planning, such as the CVA, will be very difficult to benefit from funding. That is the main reason why we are making the CVA compulsory for local government agencies with more than thirty thousand inhabitants and for regions, precisely so that they do not lose the possibility of funding from European resources in the next programming period. In common, those municipalities of less than 30 thousand cannot respond, obviously and will not have the same chances as the ones with a CVA. We now go to the possibilities offered by the Public Investment Programme, whether it forms part of the regions or the sectors of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. It seems to me, in fact, to me that Article 8, and compared with paragraph 4, which expressly states that the financing of the implementation of the CIS, falls within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Generally speaking, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport is considered as a priority when adopting the Annual Project Programme proposed for inclusion in the Public Investment Programme. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that this provision in fact commits the leadership and services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to finance these actions as a priority when they make their annual programming. Unfortunately, however, some people have drawn attention and Article 12(5) of the authorizing provisions. There, in my opinion, is something particularly innovative, which is not the tool of the Special Development Programme. In this way and by joint decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister for Development and Investment, implementation guides can be drawn up to finance these measures, such as bicycles. And, of course, those who are involved in local government projects know that the great problem over time was not to fund projects, but to develop studies and licences, where, unfortunately, we have seen a shortage there. So what we are trying to do right now in the urban mobility area is to put an end to the lack of coordination and uninterruptedness, which will allow for a rapid growth in these studies, to proceed immediately to their funding. Of course, within this theoretical approach on urban mobility, the forecasts of the second part on micromobility are also included. To say this more clearly, I do not think it is sustainable urban mobility without micro-mobility. Micromobility is already a social reality in our country, which should also become part of the future planning of our cities. However, it must be done by specific rules. Rules concerning both the release of Light Personal Electric Vehicles, EPOs, and the way in which they are constructed, marketed and supplied for common use. The lack of rules on traffic risks denomination of these vehicles in citizens' consciences, not unfairly, as road safety and road users are raised. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we did not discover the powder. I said that to the committee. We have studied the good practices of other countries and adopted them as a key criterion, on the one hand, the promotion of road safety and, on the other, the uninterrupted development and use of these vehicles in such a way as to ensure the protection of the Greek consumer. I think it is obvious that the non-implementation of measures will not only make work difficult to promote safe movement, but will also undermine the promotion of alternative means of transport within the urban fabric. With these regulations, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is expected to become one of the first countries in the world with a comprehensive set of rules on microcirculation vehicles. In the context of the proposals by the parties to the opposition and the bodies, we have also made a significant change, which has been tabled by the legislative improvements, namely, the obligation to use helmets and not the simple recommendation as regards drivers of these vehicles, of course with the exception of power-driven motors for people with disabilities, as has been set us by the RESEMAS. On the issue of equivalence of driving licences I also told the committee that the equivalence between cars and light-cycles is an opportunity that the European Union is giving the Member States, by means of a directive already in 2016 and to which it leaves the discretion for the criteria they will adopt, in order for it to be in force. Therefore, when we argue in favour or against one point of view, it is important to have previously documented. I think that I have put a number of arguments in your committee, for why this regulation is necessary. Of course, a reasonable issue has been raised - I think - by the rapporteur of the Officer's Vice-President for the certification of the B-class rating to lead to a light dicyclopedia. Of course, that, Mr. Colleague, means practical examination. You realise that this is difficult because, in fact, if we went to an examination procedure, there would be no reason to go to equivalence. They are - if you want - two concepts, which are actually unconnected. Of course, it must not give us any impression that no country, which has incorporated this directive - I think the bodies in committee have put it - has not put out an examination. On the contrary, what I stressed and stressed in plenary is that we are establishing the strictest framework between the Member States of the European Union on this issue, because we also have compulsory courses and a minimum age limit and a minimum experience. Nevertheless, the Minister accepted some of the Members' comments and we are raising the lessons from three to five, in order to pass a message, that we are of course trying to make the framework even more difficult and more stringent in terms of equivalence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u212	I told you attestation, not exams.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u213	The certification, however, Mr Colleague, is actually an examination. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President. With regard to the proposal by the institutions to add the possibility of going under Article 55 and those candidate drivers who have already submitted a request for retirement, we consider that the question is reasonable. We are therefore equating them, which will be retired. I think Mr Gocas had raised this issue. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is part of the legislative amendments that we have made. I shall conclude, Mr President, with regard to road safety. About a month ago, with the Minister, Mr Karamanlis and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, we presented a comprehensive plan on road safety. We are already coming with the first bill and incorporating a number of the announcements at that time so that we can really take a very important step on the road safety issue that I think we will all agree in the Chamber that it is a national issue. Micro-mobility is now entering specific rules. The establishment of the register of imported second-hand vehicles finally sets one order in an anarchy of the way in which imports were made. With the CTEO Supervisors' Register, in fact, one more filter comes in as far as the operation of the CTEOs in our country is concerned. In fact, I set very specific examples and figures in committee as regards what is happening in our country. All this is a set of measures that are now being legislated. Other legislative texts will be followed, which will actually come to the conclusion of this plan on national road safety. I believe in the next steps. And I appeal to all the sides of this House to embrace it, because it really is a national purpose which must be broadly accepted. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Until the Step is prepared, for Mr. Karathanasopoulos to speak, he wants, Mr. Deputy Minister, to ask you a question. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, it is a question of clarification. First of all, I would like to inform the Secretary-General that exactly what I have said in my report, the cooperation and understanding which we have had has led to the positive, positive attitude of the first fourteen articles of the bill or the first one. From the beginning, I said you seem to have worked in the CVA. But on the subject of buses and public transport, I would like to suggest that you keep a reservation. There are crowds and co-mortem and sardineism. You lied to me about my public transport report. Recruitment you mean in Athens the ones that ASP returned, why was there also a candidate for a bus driver only with a driver's license for a motorcycle? Are you referring to buses, what the Court of Auditors considered inappropriate, the three hundred for Athens' urban transport, while almost the same runs through the same risks for Thessaloniki? I asked you again before. Thessalonians are more coronary-resistant? When you talk about recruitment, you refer to the fact that we couldn't hire, why did the country go bankrupt in 2009 and by 2018 was in the memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u216	Close, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u217	I'm hanging up. I want to ask you this and Mr Karamanlis. Maybe he has something to answer about two things, about the two hundred fifty OSH drivers who've been seconded to other positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Giannoulis, please don't go any further. We're not doing parliamentary control. It's legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u219	It has been mentioned, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u220	Please, Mr. Giannoulis, I respected you and gave you the floor. Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will tell you what the anointed people are saying: I think you're scratching on the slut. I gave you specific figures, which your government left us as a reserve in public transport. I'm glad that's all you're not questioning. I will say it once again to register in the Minutes: eight hundred fifty buses and trolleybuses in July 2019, a thousand two hundred fifty on a daily basis today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u222	It's your thousands of two hundred ICUs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u223	I heard you without interrupting, Mr President. In your city, in Thessaloniki, there were two hundred thirty-five buses and, in fact, old ones. Today, it is four hundred forty on a daily basis and we intend to increase them further in the next few days and weeks. You said hiring. I would expect you to be a little more careful because there was an extensive debate in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. I think you followed her. Appropriate answers were given and the matter did not come back. There's been an SAPA procedure. The AACC corrected the procedures, and even where there were errors, it was less than the procedures that your own government made corresponding tenders. In other words, when the correction is at 14.5%, when at corresponding competitions yours are at 60% and 70%, I think, Mr Colleague, I don't even have to report here. So it was the first time in the public transport. You said you couldn't hire. Good. According to yours, the memorandum ended in 2018. Am I wrong? In 2018, did you make any intakes? Oh, no. In 2019, did you make any intakes? Oh, no. For eighteen months, according to your arguments, which came out of the Memorandum, you have not made any intake. So the excuse for the memorials cannot exist. In eighteen months' time we have succeeded, the Minister, and of course in coordination with the entire government, and we have made six hundred recruitments in critical - if you like - responsibilities. You referred to the Court of Auditors. I have told you in committee too, and you have fortunately withdrawn, because you have spoken of dangerous buses. Rescind the concept, because people listen to us. It's not dangerous buses. It's based on specific specifications. Let the Court of Auditors do his job. The procedure is not complete. I'm afraid there too, you'll be politically exposed. From there on, we will continue our efforts to strengthen public transport and under no circumstances will we find any excuse for the coronary or the memorials, because the Greek people know very well what we have received from you and what we are delivering now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u224	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. And today there was a debate quite extensive about popular mobilisations against police rule. In fact, a spokesman of the New Democracy referred to and wondered how it is possible in the midst of a pandemic every day to make mobilisations that were not done in the past, under conditions of non-pandemic. Here comes the main question: Who is the driver of demonstrations, popular mobilisations? We say this clearly, it is the government that is instigating the demonstrations. It's the anti-Flemish government's policy. It is her fault that every day workers and young people are on the way. It is the dangerous political management of the pandemic, where it has left an impeccable public health system, does not proceed to permanent recruitment of health workers, does not reopen hospitals that had been closed down by previous governments, to create the necessary infrastructure, to primary health care that operates on a 24-hour basis and to order without compensation for the private health sector. These issues are at the forefront of the fight by the sanitaries. These issues make health workers on the street. They are the crowd in public transport, where they are stacked in stations, wagons and buses. This is a situation which leads workers and young people to be mobilised to dismantle the situation in public transport. It is the lack of hygiene and safety measures in large workplaces which are the cores of disease transmission. It is precisely this lack of health and safety measures that mobilises workers for protection measures from the pandemic. Secondly, it is the escalation of the anti-grassroots policy pursued by the government in the midst of a pandemic which is forcefully attacking the remaining working rights, which is violently attacking the rights of the new generation, which is fighting for open universities, for open schools with all protection measures. It is this policy that mobilizes the workers, which makes students and young people on the streets every day. At first, the government tried on the pretext of the pandemic to put the popular reactions on the plaster. It has failed, however, by the organized indiscipline of the folk factor. He then proceeded to the conclusion of the mobilisations, saying they are the cause of the disease transmission. And finally, he resorted to raw violence, police rule and authoritarianism. After all, this is also a friendly practice for all governments in our country and in previous years. With MATs and violence, they faced all those who protested. You do it today, too. But, abroad, this is precisely what unites today the governments of different directions, Mitsotakis in Greece, Macron in France, Sanchez in Spain. They respond to those who protest with violence, repression and police rule. People's struggle cannot be tarnished by the well-known incidents that the government set up with various suspected mechanisms that took place yesterday in Nea Smyrna to slander the reaction of the people of the region to the police rule. And it is confirmed by reports that are now coming out in the light of publicity. The Arrested are known holgs. You have also exploited such types, it seems, to go right ahead and slander the people's struggle, to create a climate of terrorism in the world. And, of course, this very situation has also led to the horrendous injury of the police. It is a fact, however, which does not acquit the police rule. And the government mistakenly mistakes if it thinks that in this way, with the incidents that took place yesterday, it will legalise the climate of police rule that it wants to impose on neighborhoods and everywhere. That's not gonna happen. Why? It's very simple. People's struggles are not in the plaster, and organised folk discipline will be the answer to police rule and anti-population policy. Mr President, allow me here a reference here to what Mr Papadimitriou, the Member of the New Democracy, referred to here, has essentially tried to acquit the tactical censorship, which he has imposed on a SKAI morning show against a member of the CSCE, against Lianna Kanellis. It was another attempt by the specific presenter of the morning show to prevent the representatives of the JRC from expressing their views as a whole. It's another repetitive incident. And that is why, Mr Papademitriou, not Liana Kanelli, but the JRC as a whole through his press office has made it clear that after repeated cases of censorship to the guests of the JRC in the emissions of the morning informal government representative Dimitris Economou of SKAI, it is obvious that the JRC will not, from now on, legitimize these practices on the broadcast. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are watching a convenient controversy between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. For example, who is to blame for the downfall of the Public Transport? The current or the previous government? Who is to blame for the mobilisations and events that are taking place? And it is a convenient controversy because it aims to create a new duplex of popular discontent, a duplex between two partners on substance - New Democracy and SYRIZA, two partners united by the strategic choice of serving the needs of monopolies and implementing the European Union's policy, between two partners, New Democracy and SYRIZA, which unites them with the legislative arsenal towards the internal enemy. Your "terror" creations are yours. The restriction of the strike right, the peculiarity for popular reactions against auctions or for participation in popular protests are your own legislative children. And today we are discussing another bill that is actually revealed in the New Democracy - SYRIZA - KINAL - and not just about sustainable urban mobility. Your differences are on very specific issues and, indeed, many of them are technical. Sustainable urban mobility is part of an official policy of the European Union, of sustainable urban development, in which the strategic choices of the ruling class for cities and urban centres are condensed. And, of course, it is a policy that is integrated, but also serves the designs of capital for green transition and digital transformation, creation, that is, urban window centres, which behind it will try to keep and hide the downgraded popular neighbourhoods and the problems of people's families, the creation, that is, sterile zones in urban centres for the development, especially of tourist activities, attracting large commercial chains, collecting the economic activity, collecting the land and use of it that will serve the interests of the major investors and not the people's needs. The result of these designs is clear, Minister. It will be no more than an increase in class stratification in urban centres. It has been heard by various Members that the aim of this bill is to improve - it says - the life of the people. Are you really saying? That lie is so great that it even made the lie blush from its shame. Are you serious now that this will improve the quality of life of the people? In other words, in the conditions of labour intensified, rotating work, the lack of health and safety measures for workers - in Patras we had in a 24-hour period two fatal accidents - of youth unemployment and of wide-ranging labour layers, in the new generation that has a wing-broken future, with 350 euros to survive, if they have occasional work and if they are not unemployed, with increased class barriers to education? Are you talking to them like that? Are you speaking with retired people, who are basically going to cover the medicine and medical care? With people's families living with charity aids, are you talking? Are you talking about people's families stacked in unheated apartments, without heating because of energy poverty, in degraded people's neighborhoods, without free spaces, without sports, recreation and culture, in people who are being stacked in degraded public transport as sardines? And what do you answer all this? You're talking about microcircuit and the use of light personal electric vehicles, U.S.H.E.L.D. In other words, to some who can't fill the spoon, you tell them "take a radiator for the appetite". That's what you tell them, Minister. What will you really improve of all that the people's family experiences? Just what you're going to do is turn urban areas, sterile by these phenomena, into attractive for attracting investment and tourists, such as the "ATHENA 2021" project in Attica. The urban planning of Attica, the strengthening of their role as a hub of transit trade and tourist destinations are long-term objectives of the urban order which have been served over time by all governments in the past period. And today's "Great Walk" designs of the Municipality of Athens exactly the same goal and orientation are served. The "Greek Walk" of the Municipality of Athens photographs the reactionary design of the capital for the future of Athens as well as other areas as areas with tourist, commercial and business uses of high level, but forbidden for the majority of the people. The Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans will not just address the widespread people's needs, but are being reversed in substance, because urban planning for cities has anti-grassroots features, since it is based on changes in land use for the benefit of big capital, the exclusion of the people from free spaces, the exclusion from the possibility of moving. On the substance, the need for quality residence, for placement on rational criteria, for reducing working time and for increasing leisure time, for cheap and reliable mass transport serving these needs is at the reverse of the policy of the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan, which defines travel solely on the basis of priorities and the profitability of capital. Sustainable mobility effectively excludes large cities from employee segments. The right to move is limited only to moving from the place of residence to the place of work and, moreover, to this end, experience from the quarantine is the right to move from the quarantine. The vast majority of workers see the same means of transport as they have, to be discredited and to be unable to use them to access the urban centres. Why? Because he won't have electric cars. So the possibility of access to towns is limited, so that they can be made viable for the movement of capital. From this point on, Mr President - and I conclude with this - it is clear that a planning for urban city and for transport which meets all the expanded and modern needs of the people and young people requires a completely different, integrated view of both the place of residence and its characteristics, the place of work and the place and uses of land for recreation and other activities. And that is a political problem, not a technical one. The JRC stresses that its resolution is a radically different development path, with socialisation of the concentrated means of production, with scientific central planning of production and labour control, overthrowing the power of capital. Because only within this framework can it be designed to build a city that serves popular needs. Only within such a framework can a transport system which combines and meets together the criteria for quick, cheap and reliable transport, which will, in essence, serve a socialised system of public transport, which will act as a complement to it and which will, of course, make use of all fixed track means and flexibly, be based on a dense network of other modes of transport. So, within this framework, there can be such a design of land use that serves the need for housing development, for transport and for free spaces, based on popular needs. This is also the proposal for a comprehensive JRC, which is on the reverse of its own policy and logic. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopou. The reason, from the Step in the natural presence, is the MP of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Panas. When it was Mr Pana's turn, he was on committee and had to stay in committee. Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I place myself on the Ministry of Infrastructure's bill, to make a little reference to the events of the days and, more so, to the impact that these have on the citizens, but also to the development of our next move. For now, more than ever, we must preserve the unity of the Greek people and we cannot play with fire and feed tensions that pulsate. Going to the bill, the sustainable urban mobility promoted by this bill is based on the principles of sustainable sustainable development related to the economy, the environment and society. Micromobility is a class of modes of transport provided by light vehicles. Sustainable mobility, in conjunction with micro-mobility, creates a sustainable transport system that allows for the basic needs for access to, and development of, individuals, enterprises and society. Furthermore, it is economically accessible, it limits pollutant emissions and waste to the limits of the planet's capabilities. It uses renewable resources and minimises the impact of land use and noise production. In conclusion, sustainable development helps to create a similar culture of urban mobility, taking into account environmental, social and economic criteria. So, in the context of sustainable urban mobility, this is what is being done. The organisation of urban mobility and the integration of micro-mobility with specific infrastructures in the parking areas in the conditions of movement relate to environmental and climate change. In fact, the SVAs had been introduced by Law 4599/2019, Article 22 ‘Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan’, which we had then voted on as a Democratic Consortium, and the present government did not. This draft law, therefore, contains regulations that are likely to be in a positive direction, but there are shortcomings to be included through the relevant provisions. The issues that we have highlighted and deserve attention are the need to establish an integrated legislative framework, without any fragmentary arrangements, the problems created either in the design or in the implementation and implementation of such provisions as overlap between municipalities and regions, the lack of coordination between the ministries' policy areas and, of course, a framework of control must be established for the delivery bodies of the CSB. At the same time, the provision of wider visibility and publicity should be added which will disclose and facilitate participation as many local actors as possible in the proposed network of operators. Individual actions should be linked to an increase in greenery and the need to recognise private IX, in particular by specific population groups such as the elderly and vulnerable groups. It is also necessary to promote initiatives to restrict the use of the car, to study traffic from an early age and to adopt mild ways of moving. In the provisions of the first part of this draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, we see that approaches to urban planning are harmonized internationally, focusing on encouraging residents and visitors to use in their daily movement of pedestrians and bicycles. So these modern urban policies are aimed at healthy cities, where the sidewalk and cycling networks encourage travel, create conditions of latent natural condition for citizens and, more generally, better health. With regard to the second part on microcirculation, by laying down traffic rules for microcirculation vehicles or 'light personal electronic vehicles', issues of specification and safe use of these vehicles are being dealt with. In Part 3, provisions incorporating into the Greek legislation of Directive 2018/645 on the training and periodic training of professional drivers and on the provision of a certificate of professional competence are now introduced. In the fourth part of Articles 42, 64 deal with individual issues of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, particularly in the transport sector, with provisions on the location, movement of urban buses without drivers. One can point out here the relevant regulation on self-righteous removal - retention of ownership - Article 50 - for vehicles of specific categories. This is a specific provision which, of course, facilitates the transition of the vehicle. Finally, we have the equivalence between categories of driving licences and it is true that this particular issue has monopolized the interest in the hearing of operators. In conclusion, this bill has a modernist character and there are arrangements in a positive direction. That is why we are in agreement in principle. However, it also has provisions that are contrary to us, which require changes that should aim at as substantial and sustainable solutions as possible to modern urban traffic issues as well as services related to the participation and operation of the citizen for the modern traffic needs at the least or no environmental burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u228	We are also grateful to Mr Pana and to the economy of time. Now I'm giving the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u230	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I would like some time to support our Ministry's amendments that have been distributed, I think. They have a general number of 790 and a special number of 20 and a general number of 795 and a special number of 22, and they deal with specific and serious issues. First, it is extended for one year, i.e. until 31/12-2021, the validity of a public service obligations contract, the so-called PSOs, between the Greek State and TRAINOSE, which expired on 30 December. The reason for this is that due to the exceptional circumstances created by the pandemic, negotiations between the parties, namely the Greek State and TRAINOSE, have not yet been concluded until 31/12-20. Thus, there was a risk of interruption of the public service services. This procedure - to stress here - is in line with the provision of Article 5(5) of Regulation 1370/2007 and continue the negotiations which we hope will be concluded in the next few months. With regard to the second now, we entrust the Foundation with the competence to publish all the books of theoretical training of candidate drivers of all categories of vehicles. In this way, we are making use of both its know-how and its well-known authority and the long-term high contribution of this mutually beneficial institution to scientific and professional education. Thirdly, there are two arrangements concerning the rents of the Ministry, but also to cover compensation for the members of the Board of Directors of the Air Carriage Investigation Committee. And finally, fourthly, we are moving on to another action for strengthening and protecting public transport. In particular, we provide for the possibility for companies offering transport work to resort to the procedure laid down in Article 269 of Law 4412/2016 in order to obtain devices to ensure continuous air disinfection of the internal air of public transport to deal with the risk of spreading the coronary, with high speeds, Mr President, but with fully transparent and valuable negotiation procedures and always with the approval of specialist scientists. In conclusion, I would also like to inform you that the following ministerial amendments, the general number 788 and a specialist number 18 of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the general number 789 and a specialist number 19 of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, are accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u232	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u234	Mr Giannoulis, as I understand it, wants something to ask about the amendment. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u235	Minister, Mr Karamanlis, I sometimes understand your intolerance to speak with me or with us, but I wanted to ask you this. That's your right, I don't judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u236	I mean, really! Check your complexes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u237	I don't have a complex!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u238	But, obviously, you have, it's obvious! Do you start your speech like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u239	Obvious! You're teaching me on the bench?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u240	Obvious and comic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u241	Mr Giannoulis, on questions, no personal comment!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I am interrupted by a minister who teaches us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u243	Hot request: What exactly do you want to ask about what the Minister said about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u244	There is a record of your arrogance and perception even in the way of conversation, but my question remains a parliamentary and not a theatrical one, such as the behaviour of some people: why was there a late amendment on something that our tongue has been doing for many months to say, that there has been a question with the adequate ventilation of the buses that you are choosing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u245	I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u246	Don't rush, let me finish, Mr. Karamanlis. Don't rush! Don't be upset! Why is this whole process needed while you know that we are willing to contribute to the protection of passengers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u247	I'm sure of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u248	Challenge it, but go out and judge the world outside, buses, not by the seat! And the last thing I would like to ask at a first diagonal reading of this late amendment, which its haunting on the back pages probably puts you on one issue, is this: could you not describe with a few more details what new direct assignment - mammoth are you preparing? Because that's probably what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u250	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u251	I would ask you to be much more careful about what you are saying, because every time you and your colleagues come to Parliament, you are exposed, firstly, because you are undisturbed and secondly, because you are obviously insubstantial. But that's your thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u252	I'm happy to return it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u253	We shall now proceed to the amendments. Firstly, at the moment we are talking - and I would like to inform the House - there are no air cleaning machines anywhere in the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u254	You got buses without windows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u255	I didn't interrupt, don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u256	You interrupted me before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Giannoulis, don't interrupt the Minister! The Minister will explain. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u258	So what do we do? We're making the obvious, Mr. President. I understand Mr. Giannoulis' irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u259	It's not an irritation. You answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u260	Evidently he has learned this when he was at 'ERT 3' and then came out as a MP. That's what they taught you as a journalist. Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u261	Listen, Minister, I was not appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u262	So listen, to learn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Yannoulis! Please do not register in the Minutes what Mr Giannoulis says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u264	Now I have the floor. Don't shake my finger and put your mask right! Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Giannoulis, don't make me call you back! Don't make it hard on me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u266	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u267	Don't move the finger! Where do you think you are? Are you at ERT 3? You're in the Greek Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u268	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Giannoulis, you don't have the floor! Sit down, Mr. Giannoulis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u270	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u271	The mask, Mr. Giannoulis! We have a coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Giannoulis, don't interrupt! I don't understand. This is a House!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u273	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u274	After that, then, the show should answer the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u275	Hot request. You said everything you had to say. The Minister will answer as he wants and as he thinks. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u276	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Giannoulis, are you done? Can we talk? Can we? Can you give us the floor? Can we? You're the one who moves the finger. We want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u278	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u279	Does the Left allow us to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u280	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Giannoulis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u282	When it's over, Mr. President. I have all my time and mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u283	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u284	So these machines, at the moment, do not exist anywhere in Europe. We have contacted the EGE and said we need to be ready, when and where there is provision, to move effectively and transparently. We are not talking here, ladies and gentlemen, about any direct negotiations, about any direct delegations. We are talking about negotiation with a specific procedure, which exists in Law 4412 established by the SYRIZA government. And that's what we have to do. Mr President, we must be ready because the pandemic has brought us to fruition. When these machines are certified and are on the market and are also using other countries in Europe, we must be ready quickly and transparently to take them. All the other things that are said on the side of the counter-population are an attempt to leave their political deadlocks and the deadlocks that led to the urban transport of Thessaloniki in the 200 buses and Athens in the eight hundred and fifty buses. So let us leave political controversy and let us all try to put back at a time when we really need to get to grips with this Chamber and not perform theatricalisms. That's enough of the theatrics. Let the right word prevail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u286	No, Mr. Giannoulis. I will not turn the procedure into parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u287	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Catarini, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u290	I didn't hear any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I want to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u292	Please! The staff, I judge. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u293	But you didn't hear him say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u294	I don't judge there's any staff. There was an acidity and nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u296	Mr Katrin, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I have a duty to develop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Colleague, he's given me the floor. You'll solve it later. Mr President, I see in the explanatory statement and in the amendment article that reference is made to Article 269 of Law 4412/2016. That, Minister, as you can see, is a bit of a oxime. A week after the draft is passed, the framework of public procurement changes, and as you say, we go to procedures with greater transparency and competition. It is an issue that you know is not here. There was a risk of COVID and of proliferation in public transport, and protection and disinfection measures had to have been taken for some time. I say it is a little oxidous a few days after changing the framework, which the government says is in the direction of greater transparency, to come back under procedures of the earlier legislation, which may be in force but is quite a different spirit from what you want to go through. That's our objection, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u299	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u300	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u301	The 'prevents the home of healing'. What are we doing, Mr. Catherine? I understand what you're saying. First of all, I would like to say that this article has not changed. It's part of European legislation. We are using the procedures used in other countries of the European Union, which are quite transparent. What are we talking about here? We're saying that. Because we do not know what will dawn on us tomorrow morning, at this time there are no such air-cleaning machines in any country of the European Union. For your information, I tell you that there are some states in the United States. There are no such machines in Europe at the moment, because they are not yet certified. The certification of some of these machines, however, is a matter of a few weeks or a few months. There, then, we must also be ready for legal certainty and have legislated so that we do not run at the last minute. So I don't think there's anything oxime. I think it's exactly the opposite. We are ready and legislate so that we are prepared, when and when these technologies exist, to be able to obtain them directly. Because it makes no sense, Mr Katrin, and you will agree with me, to obtain something and come after six months. He'll have to come quick. These procedures will be fully transparent and we will inform the Greek Parliament and any Member who wants these procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I cannot answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Giannoulis, I must say there is no staff. On the contrary, you did not let the Minister speak, interrupt, and here I will not continue this process because we are still on track. They expect our colleagues to speak. There's no staff. Let's go to Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, MP of the Change Movement. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by referring to what happened yesterday and the day before yesterday in New Smyrna. I have one word to say: Shame! There are no winners and losers. Our democracy is defeated. They do not match such images in a democratic country, do not match the rule of law and a favoured society. Perhaps, Mr President, silence will fit here, because often silence is the dignity of thought. However, I would say that the essence is one. Violence gives rise to violence. Let this be held. Mr President, I come to today's bill. We are talking today about a draft law on the new framework for sustainable urban mobility and micromobility within urban and peri-urban tissue. It is a bill that tries to bring solutions to the new traffic requirements within urban areas, in line with the challenges posed by the need to reduce the environmental burden. At first glance, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that it is a good thing and indeed we are addressing the Minister that a legal framework is being created for sustainable urban mobility projects. This is because they are linked to the quality of life of citizens, road safety and climate change. You implement the LAGs, A and B grades as well as the inter-university links, without plan being planned, with bureaucracy remaining with all its derivatives. However, particularly important, I would say that it is the question of funding provided by the Ministry of Infrastructure and even funding through the Public Investment Programme. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is where the questions arise: is this funding sufficient? Is there any alternative? For example, the hundreds of fifty municipalities are working on urban mobility plans with resources from the green fund. Here, we KINAL - PASOK are proposing to introduce a framework of control for OTAs, while in the institutions that have been instituted to have reason for those affected by the project or who are interested in it. That is why Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans must be projected and made public. Besides, all the residents of a city are affected by such a project. That's why they all have to be active. We also propose introducing a provision to increase greenery and a special provision for the use of IX by specific groups in need, such as the elderly, as well as vulnerable groups. To highlight initiatives to limit car use, and finally, to become an experience in every child through school. And traffic parks, where they exist, should be exploited. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans must aim at another culture of use of the city roads, encouraging walking, bicycles, and the use of microcirculation vehicles safely. Let me remind you that since 2013, the European Commission's aim has been to encourage sustainable ways of moving around the city, namely fewer cars, more sport, fewer pollutants, that is, human cities. Now, in the second part of the bill there are arrangements for electric vehicles, referred to as ‘Light Personal Electric Vehicles’. It should be stressed here that in these mild forms of movement the question of safety comes first. This is because the bill enables twelve-year-olds and fifteen-year-olds to drive a bicycle, electric vehicles, pedals and wheelboards and, as we see, without specific training and certification. A number of issues should also be clarified, such as the lack of and the inability to form bicycles or the lack of traffic lanes for electric or motor vehicles. It also needs the speed limit in residential areas, as 50 km per hour, while moving with new data vehicles with different speed limits. That is why we are proposing to reduce the permissible speed of traffic for vehicles within the inhabited areas to 30 km per hour. In order to ensure safe movement, provision should also be made for mandatory use of helmets for all and the prohibition of physical mobiles during the use of the electric vehicle. Now, in the big issue of the movement of disabled people, the lack of parking places, Mr President, for the accessibility of motor vehicles and other types of vehicles, should be addressed immediately. Our position is one, to adopt the proposals of the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons, as they have been expressed in the hearing. As far as the third part of the bill is concerned, Article 55 is concerned with the retiring of candidates' trainers. To date, in order to retire the prospective candidates, the ECA required the submission of the professional driving licence, despite the clarification circular of 2019. However, today, Mr President, Article 55 states that candidate drivers are not required to deposit the driving licence for retirement. For reasons of equality, there must be care for retrospectiveness. This also applies to those who have already filed proofs of pension. That is to say, everyone must be subject to the same regime. To conclude, I shall refer to Rule 54 on the equivalence of driving licences. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, safety for everyone is a priority. That is why we are proposing, as our rapporteur, Mr Goka, has said, for the years over the age of 15 that they are intended to lead, that there be corresponding certification, as well as COK knowledge and basic training for the vehicle concerned. I believe that security for all of us requires acceptance, that is to say, that it should be applied on a criterion. So, as our rapporteur, Mr Gokas, has pointed out, three practical lessons for a vehicle up to twenty-fifths and at least six practical lessons for category A1 are needed. And this, with reductions in age and degree time limits, as stated in the bill. In conclusion, Minister, we need certification by the body of the practical course, without, of course, a burden on the Services or other financial burden on the applicant driver. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill needs to be used to make our cities more sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u305	We too thank Mr Constantopoulos and the consistency in time. I now call on the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Kritonas Arseni, to take the step. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, should always speak with our minds in the wider context, in the big picture. Otherwise they lose their meaning to the bills we're talking about. We live in the age of the ecological crisis. We are talking - and with this bill, I imagine - about how to deal with this ecological and climate crisis. Because it is precisely the destruction of nature, I would remind you that more than half of nature, whether they are places or kinds of life, we have managed to destroy it. This is the ecological crisis, this is the climate crisis. What we are talking about, first of all, is that we have to keep it, protect it - that is self-evident and I am glad that you agree, Minister - and then, obviously, reduce consumption, because it is unsustainable the model in which we live and change the way we produce energy. However, we do not respect these priorities. We put the winds in the most virgin, the most untouched areas. Moreover, even the minimum limits that had been introduced in 2008 with the construction site of the RES are being circumvented. We're overcapacity. For example, in Evia, the six hundred wind turbines will enter another hundred and eight, based on the decision of the recent Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments. In fact, in order to be able to be approved as strategic investments, while the six hundred ELPE-based wind turbines have not produced more than sixty-eight jobs, it has suddenly appeared that the eight wind turbines will produce more than a hundred fifty. The limit for new strategic investments is a hundred and twenty. He had to get over it. In fact, we put them over there for the greatest damage to the protected areas. I will not be able to mention all the mountains of Evia that are protected areas and are currently entering wind turbines. I'll report the Illustrations, Andros in the heart of Spizaetus, Tinos, Zagori, Zagorohoria, Jummerkas, Metsovo, Samothraki, Manalo and so many other areas. This situation exists at the same time as we have been convicted of protecting the protected areas. It is what we have all said and agreed that it should have been our first objective. That's what we don't do, and that's why we're convicted. We are also also also awaiting further condemnation, as it is pending - it is at the stage of the reasoned opinion - the appeal against us in the European Court of Justice for the placement of wind in the protected areas and the failure to implement the proper assessment that would lead us to reject them. So, right now, we should stop every wind farm, every wind turbine facility. What would we do? We have been told by the European Commission in its 2019 study. Greece may, using the Recovery Fund's money, enter the global headline of climate action by putting photovoltaics on roofs and roofs, through a program "I save at home" that will touch all households and include the installation of photovoltaics on their roofs. We can produce more than 30% of the energy we consume. I'm just going to set an example to compare sizes. 13% of the energy we produce is produced with the winds today, with all the destruction that has been done. And revenue goes to a few companies. With the roof photovoltaics we could reach very quickly over 50% of our energy as a whole from renewable energy sources. We could go far beyond the 2030 target, be a model country. At the same time, the money would go to the households, supplement their collapsed incomes. At the same time, we would have network security, because a large part of the energy would be consumed locally, where it was produced, at home. At the same time, it would be much easier to manage the network for the excess amount of energy produced and relocated locally. We would thus have an economic boom! We would have the trigger with the enlarged "I save at home", which would cover all households, hundreds of jobs, which would actually bring a spring to the economy. However, it is clear that the government's commitment to itself is to proceed with the use of the Recovery Fund through the PPP, giving it to the large companies. We could look at bikes in the same logic. It's the same logic, and the microkinetics and the small electrical drive. It's in this big picture where this piece of puzzle comes in. We should strengthen bicycles, but this bill is a bill of persecution against sustainable mobility. It bans bicycles from roads where the speed limit is more than 50 km. One could say that he thinks about the safety of cyclists. However, other countries have dealt with this issue, setting a mandatory distance of one and a half metres of the car from the bike when it is passed. We could imitate other countries, which do not exclude bicycles, but find ways to integrate them. In other words, we think that for you the bike is a means of dementia, which leads to the phenomena of Parnitha and her over there by motoring the sports of the Prime Minister's family. But it's not like that. It is an instrument that can be an instrument of daily movement for too many citizens, because it is cheap and accessible, and can contribute substantially to the fight against the climate crisis. So you could well have, once again through the Recovery Fund, a funding for these bicycle-road networks and then also introduce clauses for the trans-popular movement, which would require the development of bicycle-roads then, with adequate funding, but always from the municipalities. But you're doing something else. Theoretically you tell us that you very much want to go ahead with sustainable mobility and take it out of spatial and urban context. You will repeat the mistakes we have seen in the Great Walk. The problem is that you want to make deregulation so that you can go ahead and give these works to private PPPs. That's your first concept, that's your first interest. It would be a great opportunity for the Recovery Fund, with poor funding, if it were to be used strategically. At the moment, as you use it, there will be the well-known dispersal that we see happening through the NSRF. At the same time, you are driving the country into poverty, citizens in poverty. And I want to refer here to more than a hundred cleaners in the Ministry of Finance, which will in a few days be made redundant, unemployed. They are women who, in particular, are close to the retirement limit. You throw them on the road, having worked for over twenty years, with contracts that were renewed in eighteen months. We now have the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11-2-2021, but also of previous judgments, calling for contracts to be made free of charge for all workers who meet fixed and permanent needs. Also, if contracts have been signed on several occasions, these positions, these women and men, are asking for their contracts to be converted into indefinite time. That is why we have tabled an amendment as a MERA25 and we are therefore calling, in order to meet the needs of the ministries, the supervised entities and the independent authorities, for the recruitment of personnel under an indefinite private law contract to be permitted, all existing fixed-term private law contracts of up to eighteen months to be automatically converted into contracts of an indefinite duration, provided that they have been renewed at least twice or that the employee has been in the same job for at least twenty-four months. We ask for self-evident and ask for the amendment to be accepted, which is also in the short term. I will not go into the issue of police violence, we talked about it this morning. Just keep in mind that no matter how much you think that the strategy of intimidation of citizens will reduce reactions, all that will reduce reactions to your government is to stop bringing these social extreme and provocative measures, which you legislate one after the other, in strife. You must put a stop to this inappropriateness against rights. This is going to reduce the social outcry. The repression and the working of police violence, which you are doing at central level, from the top of the political leadership, will achieve nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u307	And we thank Mr Arseni. The New Democracy MP, Mr Athanasios Kavada, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, violence, the cultivation of civil war, rhetorical division and hatred do not belong to Greece. Those who want to enforce the law of the jungle, while society and all of us are fighting to control pandemic and return to normality, will find themselves with the institutions, the laws of democracy, they will be isolated. I therefore call on all political forces to show responsibility and to understand their responsibilities towards society and the country. We paid very expensively in our history the division, hatred and violence. In these practices, an end has to come to an end. By the way, I would like to wish the police officer who yesterday received the brutal attack. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has taken a key legislative initiative on the framework for the development, development and ratification of sustainable urban mobility projects. Unfortunately, there is also a dominance in this case from the point of view of Officerial Response. It makes arguments that move from "We didn't need a bill because we did it" to the well-known "Some of them would do it, but we didn't have time to do it." The movements made by the previous government for Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans were insufficient to infinite. There were no technical specifications for their preparation and training. The drafting of the plans by the municipalities was part of the general services, and it is clear that they had to be integrated (Not heard because of a bad connection). Only this raised questions of questioning the legality of sustainable urban mobility projects. Ladies and gentlemen, with the government's plan on mobility we have a profound and substantial change. At the top of the priorities, the human element passes. At the heart of interest is man, accessibility, quality of life, road safety. Specific rules and specifications are laid down for the preparation and preparation of sustainable urban mobility plans. The most important thing is that these projects are now compulsory for municipalities with more than thirty thousand inhabitants, but also for all regions of the country. Projects and assistance for road safety, micromobility, electromobility facilitation, increased accessibility of disabled people, and the development of intelligent transport systems are part of these projects. There are potential for projects and interventions in this direction through the Green Fund, the Recovery Fund and national resources. I therefore consider it very important that the issue of microcirculation linked to the environment and quality of life and the issue of road safety related to the protection of human life are treated as separate chapters in the bill. So-called micromobility is part of sustainable urban mobility that is constantly gaining ground. In many cities electrically powered skates, electric bicycles or conventional bicycles, skateboards, and they are alternative means of transporting and transporting environmentally friendly. It is therefore very important that the rules on traffic are now laid down for these vehicles of microcirculation based on the best experience available from other countries. Vehicles that develop a small speed up to six kilometers an hour, such as the average traffic speed of a pedestrian, will move where pedestrians are moving. Vehicles that develop speeds up to twenty-five kilometres per hour will be considered as bicycles and will be allowed to travel where bicycles are on the same terms. They will not be able to travel on high speed roads. In addition, specific specifications are set for the safe movement of these vehicles that their users are obliged to comply with. They are therefore required to have brakes, lights, sound warning and users wear a protective helmet. In the context of the well-being and well-organised public space, there is provision for the establishment of parking areas for these vehicles. The strengthening of road safety with small-mobility vehicles is also enhanced by the regulation that drivers of bicycles who have not completed the age of 12 and are moving on a road network intended for the use of motor vehicles should be accompanied by persons who have completed the age of 16. The regulation also aims to strengthen road safety in order to establish a register of auditors of the Technical Control Centres for Vehicles. The registry will be certified engineers who will exercise supervision over the CTEOs, while they will also be able to carry out checks on vehicles leaving the CTEO. There are other regulations and provisions in the bill with a positive sign. In particular, first, it is possible to drive a dicyclopedic just a hundred and twenty - five cubic metres, provided that it has a licensed automobile and under three conditions, to hold a licence for over six years, to have completed the twenty - seventh year of its age and to have been subject to compulsory training of three courses. Secondly, the process of transition of vehicles is simplified, which can be carried out digitally. Withholding ownership after seven years of the date of registration is abolished and citizens' self-representation at the Transport and Communications Service no longer needs to be regulated. Thirdly, a register of imported used vehicles is being established to ensure the protection of citizens and consumers. In the register of each importer it is obliged to register the framework number, category, manufacturer, type and model, variant and its version, cubicism, its detergent technology, carbon dioxide emissions and the date of first release in a foreign country. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to accept that there may be political forces or colleagues who cannot recognise the importance of implementing an integrated plan for sustainable urban mobility in the country. It is a given support for the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u309	Thank you. We continue with Mr Efstratios Simopoulos Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u310	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, Mr President, the editors' newspaper mentioned me as hard and anti-SYRIZA. I want to make it clear that there is nothing personal about any of SYRIZA, even. It is true, however, that I am against the vast majority of the positions expressed by the leadership, MPs and SYRIZA officials, as well as its practices. Yesterday, in a debate on a channel, I had the pleasure of having in front of me - I will not personalise it - a Member of the male or female genus, it doesn't matter, from the Thessaloniki of SYRIZA, and I warned him that the way in which the Civic Response is escalating with the Government on the grounds of the demonstration of excessive violence on the part of a police officer in Nea Smyrna may have devastating effects. Before you're voiced three, I'm entitled. Yesterday's events are, of course, condemned by the whole political world, especially as regards the injury of the police force, but in no case can we offset the murderous attempt by a hoodier group against a child who we ourselves authorized him to keep security and order in an area. This is extremely important. It is another demonstration of over-violence by a police officer in a situation that is being investigated by both the administration and the... (It was not because of a bad connection) and another murder attempt. So violence does not give rise to violence, as some in Civicism and especially in SYRIZA want to show that "it is too late for tears Stella", remembering this old well-known song. The Greek people already know... (It was not heard because of a bad connection) and I believe that since Monday, as of tomorrow, especially after tomorrow's debate in the House at the initiative of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to show a better spirit and not constantly refer to democratic aberrations or like some who support them in the media or on the Internet who have even come to speak about Auschwitz. The second area to which I wish to refer is the government initiatives through the Ministry of Infrastructure which have solved many years' problems. In particular, I am going to refer to the amendment to which we have not mentioned very much, concerning the workplace in Lexiri. It is a matter that I know because I had the pleasure at the time - or as you say - of being a face of the Greek Government on the ground in the first month, the first weeks after the earthquakes. This issue started cowardly then. Since then, since the beginning of 2014, take care, seven years and this government and this Minister have come to a solution. I shall mention the same for the road safety programme. And I found this quite mature, then we found it in the government, and we pushed it back for six years, it was stagnant, there was no funding. Again the current government and the present Minister found a solution and the programme of road safety concerning micro-interventions throughout Greece is starting to get flesh and bone. Officer of the Thessaloniki Police Department was reported to the subway. I insist - and I absolutely believe this - that the leadership of SYRIZA and the SYRIZA MPs have been taken away from the previous administration of "ATTMERO". There was no solution for the Venizelos station. There was a non-solution again, and the current government again, the present Minister, has given a solution and we expect the decision of the Council of State so that the Venizelos station can have a metro and an ancient one. As far as OSTH is concerned, I've said it. If we continued the policy of OSH's previous administration, today the citizens would be moved with REO. For this bill, fortunately, there is a cross-party consensus and, of course, opposition does not ask for it to be withdrawn, because it consents. He asks that a number of other bills be withdrawn, with which he disagrees. But democracy goes on. There can't be a government for a year and a half to stand still. Of course, it is a great responsibility, the opposition, in the way in which it reacts with the incredible marches, with marches which create, not only conditions of anomaly, but conditions of translocation of the virus. The previous colleagues from all parties have mentioned this bill. I think it is time to plan how to reduce mobility through the car. We have examples, like the Netherlands, where you're happy to travel on a bike. In Greece we have not yet been able to reach this level and it is not a matter of funding or planning. It is not yet within our culture and some efforts made in small or large municipalities have failed. Perhaps in this area we should go ahead with a wider education. It is something that I consider to be too - very difficult. As far as microcircumstance is concerned, I fully agree that the framework is in place, but the one who is basically responsible for this, so that micro-mobility starts to apply and in Greece, it will generally be local self-government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u311	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. A good start, first of all, at the Ministry and the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport for direct and effective intervention in the recent earthquake in Thessaly. They have shown that there is a state that cares about its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan that we are adopting this evening is the same thing, but under normal conditions, of course. What's the same thing? It is the expression of this importance, the caring that the state has for its citizens. I had the honour about five years ago, representing the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, to be a member of the editorial committee of the first CVAK, which bears my signature, but which, unfortunately, was not fully implemented to see its beneficial effects in our cities. But because there is no misdemeanours of good, rather fortunately not implemented, because today we are given the opportunity to table a bill free of malfunctions, a bill which in the meantime incorporates the acquired Greek and European experience. Today's bill comes to give us an organized and modern town planning plan. Because I have been a mayor for many years, the practice I found when I first took over was the formation of our towns, so that we can facilitate the movement of the car. However, in time these interventions were at the expense of quality of life and in most cases had the opposite effect on traffic, we tried to change it. But again, the path we were following was the assignment of many individual or more integrated urban renewal studies or traffic studies on the basis of which we regenerated the city and organized traffic within it. The difference of the CVA from the earlier approaches and studies is that it is the process that is being followed now and to be drafted, it includes all the technical and social parameters. It is a holistic study that takes into account the needs of society as a whole and gives people, the environment, the town's microclimates, the quality of life and of course not the car. It gives way to the fastest, safest and least energy-efficient mode. On the basis of the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan, all town planning should be reviewed and adapted so that the placement of public services, sports infrastructure, social structures and cultural sites that serve citizens can be made compatible with the instructions and philosophy of the CVA. Obviously, there were countries in Europe that had moved to this philosophy of mobility in their urban centres, but with today's bill Greece is taking a pioneering step, since it is the only country that makes it compulsory for municipalities of over thirty thousand inhabitants to draw up Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans and even gives OTAs a time limit of one year from the publication of this bill, which, firstly, means that from now on all the actions of the city will be based on a uniform and coherent planning and, secondly, that this design will now be a precondition for funding the municipalities for all these actions. In fact, in order for the bill to speed up the start-up processes, it forms a uniform way of planning sustainable urban mobility at local level A' and B' level, as well as demanding funding, and standardises the process of examining and approving the CVAs from the central offices of the Ministry. To understand the culture that the bill wants to create, let us see Article 3 of the bill, where the purpose of the CVA is to ensure the sustainability of urban transport through the strengthening of public transport, the promotion of mild traffic, such as pedestrians, bicycles, etc., to ensure accessibility through specific transport networks, particularly for disabled people, the promotion of road safety for vulnerable road users, the reduction of car traffic mainly in private use, the promotion of electromobility, the improvement of access to distribution vehicles, the organization of parking, the use of new technologies in all areas of urban transport planning. As I said before, we expect that the implementation of the SPAs will make a great contribution to tackling climate change, reducing air pollutants, saving energy in transport, promoting alternative fuels and exploiting intelligent transport systems. Furthermore, this bill, providing for a term of validity of the CVA at least a decade, stops the rough and short-term designs, which we certainly have paid dearly within our cities, because it can now be revised after five years of its implementation within the framework of its ten-year term. For this reason, the creation of the electronic platform of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is also envisaged in order to facilitate the examination and monitoring of the CVAs, which will be found in a national centralised database accessible to everyone, so that the best implementation practices can be chosen through the information. As far as the second part of the bill is concerned, it is worth noting that during the first sessions of the Committee on Road Safety of Parliament, the way in which microcirculation vehicles entered our lives, but also the problems and risks posed by their arbitrary use, have monopolized our discussions. So there comes the bill that groupes them. It makes them obey a framework of traffic rules based on the speeds they develop. He's putting in order a newly-born problem of our time. In conclusion, it is worth mentioning a number of innovative provisions provided for in the third and fourth section of the bill, such as improving the level of training of professional drivers, not requiring driving licences for motorcycles with a maximum design speed of twenty-five kilometres per hour, the possibility of driving a double-cycle by Class 2 holders and the training of the register of imported used vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, safe and sustainable mobility is a priority for our Government, which together with a number of other innovations promotes a modern design of the Greek cities, with the ultimate aim of better quality of life for their inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr Kotroya, for keeping time. We move on to the Member of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Maraveya. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there are periods in politics when the juncture overshadows the essence. And when we're losing our sense of what's important and we're only dealing with what's timely, like last month, we've been living days of substituting politics. For example, today the debate in this House should normally focus on the important bill of the Ministry of Transport, a bill setting out the future of urban movements, introducing prototype rules for development and in our country of innovative applications, such as micromobility and automotive driving, ideas and tools that will change everyone's lives and in some cities, such as Trikala, have already been tested with great success. Unfortunately, however, today the focus of the public debate is not in Thessaly and in its successes, as much as I would like as a Member from Thessaly to hear things about the future of transport that is now born in Central Greece. Instead of discussing the country's hopeful future, we are again living its most evil past. Suddenly, within a month, everything changed and saw terrorist supporters smuggling and coming out to the fore the worst thing the Greek society has to show, an ego by the anchors and people of the margin, by supposedly fighters as defenders of murderers. They show up protesting in the streets about anything that can be imagined from the non-transposition of Koufantina to Korydallos, until police intervention in Nea Smyrna and from the allegedly violation of personal data of a semi-popular activist to the real and very serious injury of a new man. I am, of course, talking about the twenty-four-four-year-old cop who was found in the hospital last night, after this male attack of tens of people at the time he did his duty. I want to wish him pass and strength to his family. I would also like to remind you that all of us who are next to the police will remain close to her people. It is time to offer all possible support to these new children of ELAS. And if we can't do it, at least we can't rock them. I saw, for example, SYRIZA colleagues who have taken every opportunity to find themselves against the forces of law and order in the past month, questioned the legality of decisions on the non-conversion of Koufontina and talked about an orgy of police violence, without any incident to justify this. We see, in other words, SYRIZA has become a prosecutor who thinks he can judge what is lawful and who is guilty. And Mr. Tsipras, with his extreme statements, now appears as a people's judge who has the right to make a verdict on every subject in the name of the people's rule. And all these incredible things happen, unfortunately, in Greece of 2021, as if we were in Venezuela, who so much admire there in SYRIZA. Like there's no regular justice. As if there is no democratically elected and legitimate government. And as if the House could resist the pavement and party mobilisation of certain minorities. Some may think that today’s turbulence is to their benefit. They may think that the state will be afraid of these minimum activists' provocations, that it will retreat by giving space to the anti-social elements. However, there are new, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who have spoken about the revival of the right-wing state. If you think that's how you're undermining New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis, you're making a very big mistake. Just dig a pit with a lot of mud around it. And on this very mud, the one who produces it, sometimes slips and falls himself into the pit he was digging. Speaking of mud, Mr President, I would also like to refer to the hospitality that Mr Vaxebane has personally reserved to me the day before yesterday. While the New Democracy finalised its proposal to set up a pre-review committee in relation to the great 3 million lost on the road to the SYRIZA channel, Mr Vaxebanes had nothing to say. However, it felt the need to deal with a parliamentary report by the alleged person, obviously knowing that the EUR 3 million did not go in the wrong pocket. He preferred to deal with something else. And the other was a report I submitted on the vaccination of the students of productive schools in the Security and Armed Forces. The 'DOCUMENTO' question therefore asked how it is possible to propose the exceptional vaccination of the new mandates. They disapprove and exterminate. So let me give Mr Vaxebane a news story. The uniforms that serve, as we know, on the front line are already exceptionally vaccinated. I am sure that 'DOCUMENTO', by doing the research journalism in which it is distinguished, will find that the uniforms have been vaccinated not with new, but with unseen vaccines, without an appointment, when vaccines are left untapped. So carbons the treasure for Mr Vaxebanes who was looking to prove that the New Democracy seeks a scandalous exception for pensioners from the vaccinations. Perhaps, of course, the treasure will not be so carbonised about 'DOCUMENTO', which, according to the proposal to set up a pre-review committee, should be investigated for the influx of black money through Mr Papa, the right hand of Mr Tsipras. This will appear very soon, as the House will probably carry out a preliminary examination of this underground relationship. We will have a chance to see all of us where these 3 million euros went. The only thing, ladies and gentlemen, is what Mr Mitsotakis said last night: the government will not give way, leaving room to lawlessness. Anyone who seeks it, whoever is behind it, will not force the New Democracy to abandon its reformist effort, as will today's bill. If SYRIZA waits for a government collapse, as he said in his yesterday's announcement, he will stay with this deceptive dream. If his marginal attendants fantasize insurgents enter Athens, they will immediately realize that there will be no next round, neither second nor third. Greece is a European country. It's a favoured state and a coordinate state. That is why we will simply follow the line of 'DOCUMENTO', as it was made by an anonymous author of yesterday's apology. We will do everything we can to prevent this country from becoming a brick of disturbed people and politicians. I think this suggestion best summarizes the plan of the New Democracy Government. We will, in fact, do everything in our power not to make the country a brick of disturbed people and politicians, without compensation and discounts in the application of legality. But above all, without accepting any political blackmail from wherever they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios Ljutas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to express my warmest wishes for rapid recovery to our young police officer, who was injured yesterday in the incidents that took place in New Izmir. I hope he returns quickly to his family and to his service. Let us all express together a great 'no' to violence and division that always hurt our society seriously and deeply. So not in violence, not in division, wherever they come from. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss and vote for a very important bill from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Before I enter my place on this bill, however, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, all the relevant ministries and, above all, the Prime Minister for the immediate assistance and support of the seismic citizens of my country, the Trikalon Prefecture and the earthquakes in the regions of Thessaly. Last Wednesday's major earthquake caused great and extensive damage. Our government and Prime Minister have been directly next to our affected fellow citizens, confirming once again that they are in fact very close to the citizens who are in real need, a situation in which this is achieved: the state always meets the needs of society so that there can be real help and a social benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, now entering the contents of this bill, I would like to mention that his title: 'Greek on the move' highlights the following fact, that with the policies that we are introducing, our country is on the move and goes towards a better era. This bill creates the conditions for upgrading the quality of life and moving to our cities. Initially, the bill refers to Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans. These are key projects aimed at more efficient public transport, improving the quality of life in cities, promoting active mobility, and ensuring accessibility. Today's cities are very different from yesterday's cities. New habits have been created and these new habits always create new needs. As the responsible State Secretary, Mr Kefaloyannis, at the meeting of the committees, has described the oldest model as the core of motor traffic. But today it is about accessibility and upgrading the quality of life, always in accordance with the terms of environmental protection. The reduction of pollutants is now an urgent need for public health and environmental protection. Institutionally and targeted, therefore, a new way of planning sustainable urban mobility at the level of local government I and II is being formed. It is a model in which the needs to be met, the objectives and purposes of each project, active communication with Greek society and the evaluation of projects are met. With this bill, our country on this issue also achieves a great innovation. In particular, these plans will be mandatory in municipalities with more than thirty thousand inhabitants. At the same time, very important regulations are in place with regard to micromobility, which is a new reality for modern cities. It is done by using electric skates, rollers, skateboards and other such small vehicles, a daily and very familiar image of many children, but not only, to circulate in such a way. Of course, this move has, unfortunately, also led to accidents. It is therefore very important that this draft law also comes in and lays down rules for strengthening security. In particular, these vehicles are grouped in a category of vehicles to be called ‘light personally electric vehicles’. Those of these vehicles with a short speed of up to six kilometres an hour will be in the same way as the pedestrians. On the other hand, those who develop speeds more than twenty - five kilometres an hour will circulate where bicycles are allowed. However, the traffic of these vehicles on roads that are developing speeds above 50 km an hour will be prohibited. In addition, I would like to stand by the provisions on self-driving. We here in Trikala, in the city that took the first bus without a driver, had the opportunity to see this innovative technology closely. It was the cut that also revealed at local level the high importance of scientific research and the great benefit of science in the field of urban mobility. So, on autonomous driving, provisions are introduced in this draft law to strengthen our country's pioneering in scientific research in this area, but always under rules of caution and security. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stress the very important importance of the provisions of this bill concerning the register of imported used vehicles, as well as the CTEO Controllers’ Register. Finally, particularly important and beneficial is the provision by which retired motorists will now be able to keep to the exploitation of two public cars, trucks or buses, so that their economic equilibrium is not disturbed. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise two things. Firstly, this draft law recognises the modern social reality that we all experience. The state embodies dynamically, creates an appropriate institutional framework and meets the new needs that are born. Secondly, and complementing the first one, a framework of urban mobility is being established in this draft law, more human-centered and more friendly environmentally-friendly. This improves the lives of the citizens and gives the impetus for a life and service in the cities without unnecessary obstacles and with a risk minimisation. This is a policy that also means the prospect of the great and dynamic development of the cities and regions of our region, a dynamic development that is consistent with both economic conditions and social development and prosperity of Greek citizens of all ages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Liuta. Mr Vassiliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the first organization of human societies, the structure of the settlements has been based on the predominant means of movement of citizens. Initially pedestrians, then horses, later carriages and then cars. The modern urban environment, however, is evolving along with new technologies, the emergence of new means of transport and developments in the supply chain. We cannot, therefore, maintain systems of urban organisation based exclusively on vehicles. We need cities for people and not cars. The draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport currently under discussion concerns sustainable urban mobility and micro-mobility and aims to provide the necessary framework to enhance human and civil mobility. At this point, I would like to emphasise and welcome the common view expressed by all of Parliament's wings on the importance of mobility in the quality of life of citizens. I am sure that the discussions at the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade and today in plenary have shown that a broad consensus is both possible and legitimate. The most important point in my view lies in the first part, with the introduction of the institution of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, which all local government agencies are obliged to draw up over thirty thousand inhabitants. Uniform rules and specific requirements are laid down for the preparation of the CVA, taking into account balanced and holistic all modes and means of movement. This decentralised philosophy of the draft law is of particular value, as it enables local communities best acquainted with each other with the peculiarities of their place to draw up those local SBAKs. Greece is innovating today. It is one of the first countries to adopt a CVA, and even compulsory. At the same time, the framework introduced ensures the participation of civil society and all the actors involved, and encourages the joint cooperation of TA I and II grades. Minister, the government proposal creates those conditions so that we can talk about safe and environmentally friendly mobility in cities. The institution of the CVA must be supported. It needs to ensure their funding, but also the access of the municipalities to the necessary skilled personnel for their training. You have already announced to the committee their inclusion in the Ministry's Public Investment Programme and in the Green Fund. I think that the regions too can help to a certain extent. With regard to the second part of the draft law, the Government once again proves that it has a look at the future by wanting to exploit new technologies, such as automobile driving and making Greece a pioneer in the sector. For the first time, rules on the movement of small powered vehicles and in particular light personal electrically powered vehicles are laid down. We already see problems with electric skates in the big cities. The state is moving quickly and regulating these issues in order to eliminate any confusion that exists today. In addition, intelligent travel systems are provided, especially for disabled people. We must make our cities more accessible. I also know that you are already considering the incorporation of comments and proposals expressed by the representatives of the EMEA in the committee. In the third part we have the harmonisation of Greek legislation towards the provisions of Directive 645/2018 of the European Parliament, even establishing the strictest framework in relation to other European countries. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] With regard to other provisions, I distinguish between establishing a register of CTEO auditors and a register of imported used vehicles to facilitate services to the citizen and reducing the time required for their completion. Also important are the provisions concerning the necessary urban arrangements for the repair and reconstruction of the labour houses of the settlement of Lixori in Kefalonia. On this occasion, therefore, I would like to ask you, Minister, the question of working homes throughout the country and not only in earthquake areas. In most cases, maintenance and reconstruction is needed. In Pella we have typical examples of such cases. In conclusion, Mr President, I am holding from the position of the Secretary-General the commitment to follow a series of legislation to modernise the Road Traffic Code. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this draft law puts the foundations for cities with fewer cars, more accessible and more environmentally friendly. I invite you all to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u319	Thank you. We still have two speakers, after the Minister has completed the process. Ms. Brizidou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by expressing my sympathy to the seriously injured police officer and wishing for a quick recovery. This bill certainly moves in the right direction. It sets a specific framework and resolves organised issues relating to urban traffic. It creates conditions for improving urban mobility. It introduces rules and promotes alternative and sustainable solutions. At the same time, it inspires a new culture of traffic and traffic in our cities. As is the case in many countries of Europe, we must see in our own way the change of ways of moving as an opportunity to change the urban landscape, making it more friendly to citizens. To date, when we were talking about mobility in cities, we meant only vehicle mobility. With Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, that changes. At the same time, with the support of existing urban and traffic planning practices, an important step is being taken towards a safe and environmentally friendly framework for citizens' mobility. This will be done through projects in all regions and municipalities with more than thirty thousand inhabitants. These projects concern improving road safety and promoting micro-mobility, facilitating electric mobility, developing intelligent transport systems, strengthening public transport systems and, of course, improving the accessibility of disabled people. The CPAs relate to the quality of life and the safety of citizens, but they also relate to the environment, sustainability and climate change. These projects are important to stress that they are not designed in their own right. Other parameters such as urban and spatial planning are taken into account. They are a first-class opportunity for OTAs to seek either themselves or through popular actions to improve their image. This enables them to develop projects and receive funding and achieve the modernisation of the urban fabric. We need modern cities, designed with a human focus and not a car. It is equally important that micro-mobility, which is part of sustainable urban mobility, is also important. By means of the provisions of the draft law that we are voting on today, rules are introduced for electric skates and wheels. All these vehicles are now included in the category called 'lights personally electric vehicles'. These vehicles are suitable for moving within the urban fabric, with more than one electrical skates. In the last two years, we have met them more and more frequently in the Greek cities. They are particularly widespread in adolescent ages. That is why it is very valuable to group together this draft law on these vehicles. In other words, they will be allowed to move in two zones depending on the speed they are moving. Up to six kilometers are circulating where the pedestrians are running, and at a speed of up to twenty-five kilometers will be allowed to circulate bicycles. Very important, too, is that these electric vehicles and small vehicles are forbidden to move on roads where they are developing speeds of over fifty kilometers. For the first time, we see that rules are in place. A regulatory framework for the movement of these vehicles is introduced, and so far they are moving without being clear what is envisaged for them. Thus, combined with the forecasts of drivers' discrepancies and equipment of electric vehicles, a sense of safety is created for citizens, drivers and parents who want to know that their children are not at risk. The sense of security, however, is also reinforced by other factors. Market issues are regulated for such vehicles, such as construction, disposal and provision for their common use. At the same time, local government measures are envisaged to regulate or limit traffic and to identify sites for the organised parking of these vehicles. We see that the targeting of such vehicles is on the basis of a plan and not of luck. After all, it is clear that their advantages are many. They do not have emissions of pollutants and noises, they do not consume much energy and they are easy to use. Every citizen can move into his town with them without having to use a car. Especially in smaller towns, where distances are shorter, these vehicles can become the most widespread means of transport, of course, if there is a proper regulatory framework, such as the one introduced by the New Democracy Government in this bill. Improving the quality of life of citizens is directly linked to the issue of microcirculation and I think it is time to move forward in a new era. I would also like to stress that the electric wheelchairs are included in the category of Light Personal Electric Vehicles. This demonstrates once again the government's aim of helping our fellow people with kinetic problems. And that is not only done in this bill, but overall. With regard to the other issues of the bill, I would like to refer to the CTEO auditors register. We heard the Minister in the committee responsible who said that in Greece the rate of rejection of vehicles at the CTEOs is only 4.5%. The corresponding rate of rejection in Germany is 35.5%. This draft law brings a powerful control mechanism to ensure the proper functioning of the CTEs. It is also very important that Article 51 also places order on the market of used cars. In our country there are currently thousands of imported cars, which are not registered anywhere. The register of imported second-hand vehicles obliges importers to register imported cars, framework number, model and other elements. On this basis, the consumer who wishes to buy an imported car feels safe and will not be in danger of being deceived. Ladies and gentlemen, we are modernising, supplementing loopholes in legislation, protecting the environment and implementing the necessary step in the future, as we owe as a modern European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, too. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Zachariadis, has spoken for a short speech. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, thank you. I use briefly the right to second and third placement. I would just like to refer to one part, not the bill. This has been explained briefly. He's been in all the locations. Our rapporteur has said so, and the speakers have said so. However, it was intensely raised in the first part of the speech by all speakers on the subject of topical and urgent debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a great public health crisis and a great economic crisis, a great collapse. The last thing that the country needs right now is division. It needs unity, it needs the possibility of political communication. There's more than one climate of division, polarization, extremes. For our part, we will always be in a sense of solving the problems. Unfortunately, the government has failed to manage the major crises, whether this is the public health crisis, where it seems that once again we are in a deadlock or the major economic crisis, which, except for not celebrating the financial staff that the recession is at 8.2% with the provisional information. There must be an end to this delicacy of violence, repression and provocative, poisoned public speech. The great responsibility, in order to be able to do this, is in the country's political leadership, is in the majority, is in the Prime Minister. He needs temper, he needs understanding of all the difficulties at times. It is out of every sense that the continuous targeting of the new generation through messages of the country's political leadership from summer to today. It's wrong the opposition to the opposition and the squabbling with non-existent enemies. We call it a pure 'no' to police arbitrariness, and that must be done by everyone. At the same time we are saying a great 'no' to respond to police violence and arbitrary violence. Because that's a disaster, it's tragic. It's a vicious cycle of violence. He puts society in a sense of constant fear. The country needs democratic stability, it needs social peace, it needs smoothness and sound political confrontation. Anyone who resorts to the dark path of division and polarization should also take political responsibility for the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u323	Before the list of speakers with Mr Consola is completed, I would like to inform you that the rapporteurs have asked Mr Giannoulis, Mr Gokas, Mr Heitas - but the rapporteur is Mr Villiardos -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u324	It's been replaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u325	Good, no problem, to God. Webex now has the floor for Mr Emmanuel Konsolas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I am very happy today to be involved in an important debate. I had been lucky for over five years to participate in the Committee on Road Safety of the National Representation, and there we discussed issues relating to sustainable urban mobility, but also the digital transformation needed by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, in order to be modern and consistent with the needs of society. I am very happy today that both the Minister and the Deputy Minister have highlighted the basic principles of this bill, which are consistent with the requirement of so many years of all Members of this House who have asked for this very perspective that Greece should be put on the move. I would also like to congratulate the Minister and the Deputy Minister for this initiative, to bring the bill to Parliament, as well as Mr Sedetakis, who has rightly highlighted the main priorities of the bill, as well as Mrs Soukoulis, who was excellent in her position for the presence of the bill. It is therefore coming to the plenary today, Mr President, to discuss and vote for an important legislative initiative by the Government. For the first time, a comprehensive institutional framework is set up for the formulation and development of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans aimed at ensuring the safe movement of citizens and respecting environmental conditions. It is clear that Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans are linked to the strengthening of road safety, and that Mr. Kefaliannis also made it clear in his place. Municipalities of more than thirty thousand inhabitants and regions are now obliged to draw up a Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan. Within this plan, for each municipality and for each region, projects and actions aimed at strengthening and improving road safety will be integrated, and on the one hand, in the development of the conditions for the provision of infrastructure and facilities for electricity supply. At the same time, it aims to improve the accessibility of disabled people, which we have recently seen at the National Representation in the context of the debate on the Legislation on the Independent Authority for Accessibility discussed both in the Committees and in plenary, while additionals are also aimed at strengthening public transport systems. We have all listened carefully just now to colleagues from Opposition, the objections and criticisms of Anti-Population, which, in my humble view, is unjust and unmistakable. There was indeed - that is the truth - the possibility of creating sustainable urban mobility plans. However, for the first time this becomes compulsory for municipalities with more than thirty thousand inhabitants, for the regions and for the municipalities of the large town complexes, such as Athens and Thessaloniki. So this in itself makes the project very important and is extremely innovative and timely. For the first time, these plans will be drawn up on the basis of a specific model with uniform rules and on the basis of the guidelines of the ELTIS Observatory for the evaluation and approval of projects included in each project - for the first time, I repeat - and red tape and delays in the adoption and amendment of sustainable urban mobility plans. Mr President, it is unfair to criticise an issue which must be a field of convergence and not a party confrontation. We have heard this appeal from many colleagues today, as well as from the Ministry's leadership. The big bet is now sufficient funding for the implementation of the projects and actions to be included in the plans to be drawn up in the next period, which will be extremely important and necessary to improve the quality not only of residents' living but also of visitors coming to Greece, since we expect to continue to call ourselves the great tourist brand name. One of the key areas for the implementation of this sustainable urban mobility is the creation of the conditions for facilitating and developing electromobility. Minister, as you are well aware - you know why you are aware of the island area, beyond Mr Kefaliannis who is also an islander - an effort has been launched to develop electricity. I know your sensitivity to that. The application of electromobility to the islands was initiated by one of our islands, from the island of Astypalea, which should, however, continue in other islands. Allow me, Minister, to put forward the proposal that there should be a wide-ranging interministerial cooperation aimed at creating an infrastructure framework on the islands and, on the one hand, the development of financial instruments and incentives for boosting electricity. I am referring essentially to incentives in island areas that will include a subsidy for the supply of electronic cars by tourist businesses, a sector involving taxi, mini van, hotels, business vehicles and car rental companies and others. In addition to lowering charges, incentives need to be extended to lower taxes, market subsidies and free parking. Much of what I have said is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, so I urge that there be inter-ministerial cooperation and that these issues be brought forward. Incentives and financial programmes should also be established for the development of a network of charging points on the urban fabric of the islands and on the road network, as well as for the establishment of recharging infrastructures at hotels and points of interest. Through the Recovery Fund resources can be raised to make our islands a point of reference for electricity mobilisation, thus strengthening their environmental footprint, which you know is in the world's front line. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, as I have pointed out, the issue of road safety is a matter of immediate priority, which you emphasised in your positions. Technological developments and alternative means of transport require the introduction of traffic rules for microcirculation vehicles normally used by young people. I am referring to electric skates, rollers, skateboards and self-equipped vehicles. There are in the urban fabric, mainly electric skates running up to about twenty-five kilometers an hour, which will be counted as bicycles and which will be circulated where bicycles are allowed. This means that these vehicles will not be allowed to move on fast-moving roads, where speeds exceeding 50 km an hour are developed, and thus avoid the accidents for which we are all socially from the media. These regulations strengthen road safety, and in addition set out specific specifications that must be met by users of these vehicles and by specific rules. In the direction of road safety strengthening, the arrangements for setting up a register of auditors that will monitor both the functioning of the conditions on the basis of which each vehicle technical control centre has been authorised, and also the auditors, will be responsible and able to carry out checks on each vehicle completing the CTE procedure. At the same time, they will be able to carry out checks on the correct operation and quality of the machinery available to the JETs. Finally, Mr President, I should like to refer to a positive fact, which is the process of transferring a vehicle, which is facilitated to the greatest extent, since it can now be digital, something which we have highlighted and emphasised in committee in relation to the Ministry's digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating is a overturning of the dominant concepts of mobility to date. Motor traffic is no longer a priority, but it is a priority to ensure human life, road safety, quality of life and accessibility, and that is why I think there should be a broad consensus that should be expressed in practice by voting for this draft law by all political forces. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, too. Mrs Soukouli, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has asked for the floor for a short speech and we continue with the rapporteurs. Here you go, Mrs. Sukuli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. Democracy does not mean immunity, and that is why we must not do the favour of a few and marginal people to impose chaos and anger as a collective behaviour. I have said so in my prototype - and I would like to say this again - that respect for legitimacy is a basic democratic principle both for the state and for the citizens and a condition of civil peaceful coexistence, without extremism. We really need responsibility and seriousness, and we ought to vote in favour of it now that we are almost clear, perhaps in the last mile, of the health crisis. Greece will move forward and the Prime Minister really guarantees the future and the way to prosperity and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Logiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's a big conversation today. I'll be brief. The first issue is the question of the correct legislature, as we have already pointed out, by Law No.4622/2019, the Gerapitris law, which you voted on today. Today this bill has sixty-five articles. The consultation was forty-five. There was no proper consultation. You know, for the success of the CVAs it is necessary for citizens to participate. But when citizens see that in every bill they do not get all the articles into consultation, as in today's debate, how will these people think? Even the best law will not work if there is no social consensus. The second issue is harmonisation with European directives. As far as harmonisation is concerned, we here have 50 km in the inhabited areas, in Europe it is thirty km. Helmets everywhere and not on a case-by-case basis, as your bill says, and also monitoring and severe penalties. The police can't only run in protests and not watch traffic everywhere. In Sweden with a speed limit of thirty - five kilometers an hour, if the driver is caught with thirty - eight kilometers, he loses for six months his diploma, re-dosing tests that are accurate and then in the target. Coordination for defining a CVA between regions and municipalities: How will it be done? The bill doesn't tell us. There is, of course, no adequate and adequate staff either in the regions or in the municipalities. And the honourable Member will speak - a member of the Committee on the Islands and Mountains and say that in these municipalities the workers over there want to leave. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall read something here - I shall end, Mr President - from a pioneering municipality, the Municipality of Trikkai. He says the mayor to the committee as a body: "The great overthrow caused by the CVAN in conventional traffic studies, which after them lack grounds for existence, is that their starting point is the answer to the question of what identity they want and what form the residents want for the city tomorrow." This is a purely urban question. As far as the draft law is concerned, that is not the case. Planning is underestimated, the CVA is amputated to the extent that it leads to the wrong directions. So we think that all this is difficult and incomplete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since this morning we have had a great deal of time and you will also allow me as a parliamentary representative, but also as a last resort before the draft law is passed, to make a reference to the issues of topicality. We really feel, Mr President, very happy and proud that from early this morning the Greek Solution was the only political party that tried through the speech of its President to throw tons, to put the parties before their responsibilities and to ask for unity from both parties and from Greek citizens. It was morning, it was late, it was dark out and we see a political flexibility of SYRIZA now at the end of the meeting, even a few minutes before the end of this meeting. The parliamentary representative spokesman has spoken from nowhere. He obviously had to do that to throw the tons. Of course, Mr President, we are all judged in practice, that is, the words are poor. The act determines who we are and what we do. So what did the President of Greek Solution ask today? He asked Alexis Tsipras to get the request back, the question he has submitted to Mr. Mitsotakis on Friday, just so the tone falls. So, then, SYRIZA now appears to want to throw the tones, which we welcome as political beings of logic here. Good thing you want to throw the tons! Of course, after two to three days, one week you triggered the situation and put 'fournela', now you want the tons to fall. I'll go to New Democracy in a little while, but if you want to show it in practice, you have to withdraw the question of Friday. Also, can you tell us which SYRIZA is the SYRIZA of the logic that was heard just now by Mr Zachariadis or other more dynamic voices and I am even referring to today's SYRIZA rapporteur, the draftsman of the bill? I mean, that's what we're talking about. On the other hand, while SYRIZA has triggered the climate all these days, today he saw - just say, Mr President - that it is no longer taken because the outcry of the world is such that nothing saves them. We will go to New Democracy, which has enormous responsibilities for the non-implementation of the law. It simply votes for bills, it does not apply the law and it does not apply to law and lawlessness, and of course the wild, hard person who shows too many times the police in the face of the Greek citizens, whom I close with it, Mr President - at least the big ones - at least as far as the percentages are concerned - these parties, the New Democracy and the SYRIZA do not respect them. They forget, forget what worlds, which citizens have against them, the Greek citizens of unemployment, incarceration and at the same time every day - and a moment ago - are being syllables in the Constitution. This thing can't be done every day. It can't be done! We must feel the seriousness of the situation and stand to the extent of the circumstances. I'm closing up with a phrase by Mr. Velopoulos that actually engraved me today. For us, for the Greek Solution the squares join together and should join us together. The big difference is that for you the squares bleed. Thank you very much and good for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Gocas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to the issues of topical and urgent subjects of major importance, we talked about them this morning. The government and Civic Opposition must assume their responsibilities, instead of splitting and polarising, must respond to the responsibilities arising from their institutional role, the smooth course and the confrontation of the major challenges and problems of Greek society with the pandemic and the economic crisis, which are its consequence. I will start with the amendments. First of all, with regard to the amendment on 'TRAINOSE', obviously because there is the practical issue of the public service, this extension should be granted. But we have asked a question, and we have received an answer about a year ago, that the new agreement is under way. Is the new deal going to be ten or fifteen years? We don't know. And why should it not be for five years, so that it cannot be excluded - and it must not be excluded - competition? I would remind you that TRAINOSE was sold at 45 million, when 400 million were considered a sale in 2014. SYRIZA after selling it with 45 million euros. And by the way, Minister, give us some information about how much time it costs. It's 50 million higher. How much do we really pay these years? These comments were made in relation to ‘TRAINOSE’. On the other amendment, which came last minute. As far as I understand it is concerned, the supply of air disinfection devices in relation to the means of transport. These devices I don't know how to deal with the coronary. What I know and which obviously existed as a specification for the purchase of new buses is that there should be a renewal of air, with fresh air, which means 100% renewal of fresh air with a specific exposure rate. These standards do not correspond to the technical tenders as they went to the Court of Auditors, and that is why the contracts were not approved. So there's a failure in the contest. We don't know his evolution. However, this amendment could not be at the last minute, but it should come a couple of days earlier so that we can all prepare ourselves better on this issue. In relation to the issues of the bill, some improvements were made to the SPA chapter for both network working groups and for the participation of urban spacemakers. Some other improvements have also been made to the other articles on the mandatory use of the helmet rather than the recommendation and some improvements that reduce the exemptions for the certificate of professional competence. We have placed positively on the principle of the bill, due to the importance of establishing Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans and micro-mobility in a legislative framework. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, there are some points - and I would like you, Mr President, to be indifferent for two minutes - to which I shall refer very specifically and briefly. The speeds that have not been reduced for EEE vehicles considered to be pedestrians at six kilometers have remained. There is no provision for certification of the possibility for VOCs to drive 15-year-olds and there remains the possibility of 12-year-olds running on the road. It remains the speed of fifty kilometres instead of thirty inhabited areas. It shall be possible to train and examine for a certificate of professional competence in a private vehicle in Article 35. The issue of safety with the presence of pilots in automated vehicles is a problem. For the KTEO auditors we have proposed the possibility of certification and engineers from relevant public services for these checks. In Article 58 I had requested, Minister and Minister, clarification of the programming contracts to be concluded by the Ministry. What concerns us is that contracts are provided for private-law contracts, when we know that at least the two entities must be public or legal entities governed by public law, or private-law legal entities, but public bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u335	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u336	I shall conclude, Mr President. If legal persons are added to public law there, they will be able to do so. Otherwise it cannot apply. As far as equivalence is concerned, because our proposal was different, despite some improvement, for certification, we did not propose examinations or certification by the services in order not to impose either the services or the public with any paradoxes, but a certificate from the instructor who will be certified to issue this certificate that there is a driver's ability to drive the cycle. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say to the Secretary-General, Mr Kefaloniann, that by closing these three days of parliamentary debate, our decision is to vote in favour of the first 13 articles on the SBAKs and to express satisfaction with the acceptance of proposals made by the Opposition. Now, with regard to the amendment tabled late by the Minister, the explanatory statement is the core of the questions that we have raised as to whether it is intended to ensure a stable, paradoxical parliamentary practice, launched by Mrs Kerameos and other ministers, to surprise this House and not to allow for thorough analysis and knowledge. Of course, you also thankfully offer a news report that the virus is stuck in public transport too, it sticks to buses. It's taken eight months. Two weeks ago Mr. Mitsotakis from Stephen broke his clothes that studies are not as transmitted as much as they are. Finally, this amendment comes in order to find out that it also fits into public transport. It sticks, of course, mainly to the buses you supplied without windows and sticks mainly to the buses you supplied without windows when there were workers and specialists. It is only today that Mrs Linou said - and you can say what you want for her political views, but her scientificity is not questioned - that she is unfortunately being broadcast much more in an hour of conspiracy on the bus than in five hours of protest. Now, in conclusion, I consider that the criterion for becoming a Vice-President in New Democracy is the size of his anti-SYRIZA hysteria and if I repeat Mr Karamanlis' position in this Chamber, I will find that words and phrases such as 'unseen', 'anti-SYRIZA', 'for all it is your fault', are certainly repeated with great precision. Mr Karamanlis, I will tell you something for the last time about the urban transport of Thessaloniki. Do not find yourself in the position - and I close with this - of Mr Karaoglou, who, as Minister of Government before the Monomele of Thessaloniki, was forced and forced to say the following: "I call on the mismanagement and corruption to OSH during the period during which they participated in his administration, during the period when OSH arrived in the Greek State and was wound up. This statement could be made public." Undersecretary of State for your Government before a court annulled everything you've been telling us for two years now! I also asked a few questions this morning, but I do not know if they were taken from you, which have something to do with it - so that the OSH issue does not become like the thousands of two hundred ICBs - according to the criteria according to which buses were selected without windows. I would therefore like to ask you this: why, in fact, two and a half thousand transport workers, which only SYRIZA are not - and I am closing, Mr President - are at the moment facing you and are denounced that the administration that enjoys your confidence, almost your tolerance, is in constant conflict with the two and a half thousand workers and not with the SYRIZA officials? Finally, I wanted to say something about topicality. I'll close what I started at the beginning of the morning. You know, really, unity is not being ordered. Unity is inspired. When there are statements from - perhaps - your political model, Mr.Adoni Georgiadis, which says "Let the boy live and we will not do the favour of SYRIZA to let Greece be destroyed in a new civil war, as some dream. Shame on them!' is this your contribution to unity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Maximos Sedetakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u340	In conclusion, I would also like to give you the three-day climate we had the debate. I would like to congratulate the Ministry's leadership, Mr Karamanlis and Mr Kefaloyannis, for the legislation and for the way in which he consulted. I would also like to congratulate my colleagues, because I think there has been a debate which has also improved the bill. Some proposals have been accepted. I have to say that a major objection from the opposition was the mandatory helmets in the APO, which were accepted by the government. We had disagreements on the equivalence of diplomas. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have also seen from the hearing by the institutions that this is the case. In fact, studies prove to be a practice that gives good guides to traffic. So I understand the arguments at this point too, but I think that scientifically it has also proved that we are doing the right thing. In fact, as the Minister said, we are applying the strictest of the methods available in the European Union. In conclusion, I shall refer to the CVA. It really is a piece of legislation that concerns our lives, the daily lives of the citizen and his movement into the urban environment. It is extremely important to set a framework for the creation and implementation of the CVA. There have been disagreements on how these will be financed, but after they have been completed. This is what the Minister said, namely that the problem is not about finding funding. The problem is to mature studies so that the mayor can go to all these sectoral or regional programmes and claim funding. This requires a proper study, and this framework which we are bringing in helps us in this direction, so that we can assess the level of preparedness of each municipality. It is important here to say that it does not take responsibility from local government. It gives local self-government a tool to regulate in its municipality in consultation with the citizens the way in which citizens want to move. This is important and I wonder how some want to put restrictions on this freedom of local government. We want to get back to life. In other words, we want to transfer responsibility to local government, as we do to other legislation. Many remarks were also accepted, such as enlargement to the task force of specialisations with town and countrybuilders. And yes, we are interested in the environment and it is the object of planning the CVA. It is considered self-proof that we end up in design with a view to living in a cleaner environment. Besides, that's what we say, we're civilized. It is therefore the object of the planning that proper environmental management of the means by which we are moving. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u341	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me, too, start before anything else, making a brief reference to the tragic events in New Izmir. I will address those who believe in the right speech and I think there are many in this Chamber. Even on the SYRIZA side we heard Mr Zachariadis make a real position in the right direction. I hope the other SYRIZA colleagues will follow him. I think we will all agree that our country has suffered a great deal in modern history by divisions and internal fires. If we look back on the past, I think we will all see what the consequences of these policies have been. So let us not repeat the same mistakes, because I think that the image of the bloody policeman, a young man who happens to be from Serres Prefecture - the son of policeman as well - was a scene that shocked everyone, whatever party they belong to, whether they are right or left. I think he deserves - beyond the wishes for rapid recovery - and congratulations on the temperament and for the party he has shown. I talked to him this morning and I'll tell you that I was impressed by this very thing, that is by his temper, his bravery and by the sense of duty. I think this is something very important. So let us take the example of this young police officer and keep the temper in this room. Let us not allow Greek society to get hurt any more. So let's say it clearly and by their name. Exercise of unnecessarily violence by some police officers on Sunday was unauthorized. That is what the government said first, and that is why the SAD has been ordered. I think we should be sure that whatever responsibilities will be attributed. But what we saw yesterday was something else. It was an attempted murder. To God, we do not claim, ladies and gentlemen, that those who participated yesterday in the demonstration are equitable with these murderous acts! But, especially on the left, a part of it, unfortunately, even today closes the eye to violence. So no one has the right to fire oil. Do not repeat the mistakes of the past, your radical activism and your anti-immemorial madness. Follow the example of new politicians like Mr Zachariadis, move forward and draw a line with this past. It's time you solve these problems with SYRIZA. This has been solved by both our party and the historic party of the Central Left, both by the 1975 Constitution and by the country's European course. We have been celebrating forty years since we entered the European Union, so let us accept this, that we are a European country, and let us leave the divisions behind. Today, however, we are talking about a very important and topical bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the one of the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, the so-called CVA. The Undersecretary, Mr. Kefaliannis, has already presented to you, which I would like to thank for his excellent work, his basic points. As a government, since the first day of our term of office, we have set the citizen very high in our priorities and in the improvement of everyday life. Because if we manage to improve the quality of travel and transport within cities, this will mean better urban quality, more road safety, better quality of life for citizens. Public transport, pedestrian transport infrastructure and cycling within the city, rational management of IX, modern, alternative forms of transport, with respect for and care for the environment, make up the urban mobility puzzle. Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans form exactly this, the way we assemble this complex puzzle. In order to do so, we had to amend the existing, problematic framework, which was in the right direction and which was established by the SYRIZA, and simplify the procedures. We therefore adopt the philosophy of the SPAKs and even make them compulsory for the municipalities of over thirty thousand. Because planning for urban mobility must first of all be coherent. The bill therefore helps to have common standards and tools to implement local, regional and national actions. Thus, we are actively encouraging local authorities, through the provisions of the bill, to gain access to European Union financial instruments, which are really there and we can use them, with specific objectives: improving road safety, promoting microcirculation, facilitating electricity mobility, developing intelligent transport systems and efficient public transport systems. For the first time, then, uniform rules are laid down. Furthermore, the implementation of the proposed provisions is immediate and is not required - and this is essential - the adoption of secondary legislation. The bill, however, is not limited to them alone. In the second part of the bill we put an end to an absolute anarchy that existed and put rules on the movement of small-mobility vehicles. And we do so in an organised way, that is to say, making use of international experience. In particular, first of all, we group light, personal, electric motor vehicles into a category of vehicles. We are introducing regulations on the movement of these vehicles, on the basis of assessment and on comparative studies of what is happening in other countries. The LAGs are also now required to take measures to regulate or limit their traffic and to identify sites for their organised parking. In addition, we put in specific rules. Firstly, we regulate issues of specification and safe use, with emphasis on the mandatory equipment that must bear, such as brakes, lights, sound warning. Secondly, when carrying out night-time work, everyone who drives these vehicles should be obliged to carry appropriate clothing so that they can be visible. Thirdly, all drivers of these vehicles are obliged to wear an approved type of protective helmet. We therefore provide for a series of measures, which are central to road safety. Because this government has shown that road safety issues are of priority. Apart from that, however, we are moving towards a series of actions which also aim to facilitate the daily lives of citizens. This modernises and simplifys the procedure for replacing licences for reasons of deterioration, theft and renewal. And we allow the unprecedented in Greece and the obvious in other countries of the European Union, that is, we allow the citizen to handle this process alone through his computer or mobile phone. We started this with the temporary driving licence, and we continue with it in other cases. That is why we are gradually integrating the regions throughout the country into the digital database, and we hope that this process can be done electronically too soon. So we're also entering the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure in the digital age and doing what was unthinkable in the era of SYRIZA. Let me just remind you of the interoperability of tolls, which was a contractual obligation for concessionaires, but it had not been done. I would also like to point out another point here. Everything that we are discussing today about the CVA and micro-mobility is not fragmentary ideas, it is not a report of ideas, it is not a scorpion initiatives. It is part of a coherent, integrated plan for life and travel, and part of this plan is electricity, and part of this plan is road safety, and of course the strengthening of public transport is central to this project. Because they have heard incredible lies in this public transport room, let me refer to this time. In 2020, we tripled the maintenance costs of the fleet. In Athens, compared with last September, we have three thousand more routes than we had. We received eight hundred fifty buses, as Mr Kefaloyannis said, and today we have a thousand 300 buses on the road. We haven't seen so much since 2015. And soon we'll get to a thousand four hundred. We are completing the recruitment, sixty-nine recruitments, which have not taken place for many years. In the metro the time has fallen appreciably, the trains have increased by 20%, when we had received one third of the trains immobilised. In the tram, speaking of a SBAK, the release into Constitution and Faliro began again. Look out, we don't say there are no problems. We don't look good on the situation. But, step by step, we see things improve considerably. We cannot therefore, especially the gentlemen at SYRIZA, be incurred from us - step by step - by implementing this plan, by recruitment, by working with the CBS, by working with the private sector, but always by respecting the public nature of urban transport and innovative policies, which are for the first time implemented in the public sector, such as leasing of vehicles. Let's not shake our finger, because, you know, by shaking your finger at the end, you show yourself, shaking your finger, you show yourself. Because you didn't take a single bus, you had reduced the spare parts supplies, and all this now is changing. They're hiring. All you had increased, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, was one, the price of the ticket. We reduced that, too. And above all, we are investing in the future by providing new, environmentally friendly buses. In very few days, the big contest, for which SYRIZA did not even have the necessary funding, will be in consultation. Because once in this country we should understand that when we go to make a big competition, a commission, not having guaranteed funding is a political fraud and such political frauds we, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are not doing. In political deception you have taken Oscar. Metro Extension: We unlock the huge work of line 4 that was blocked. In four months we will have the first construction sites, and we are preparing the extension along Kifissia, the extension of line 2 to West Attica, and we are working on the extensions to Glyfada and Kalithea. The same happened in Thessaloniki. We received - listen - two hundred thirty-five buses for OSTH. We have now reached four hundred and fifty-four, that is almost twice, in eighteen months. We've given a solution to the subway of Thessaloniki. The city's finally moving together. And if we add the road projects to Thessaloniki, Flyover, which will also start in 2021, you understand that, when we implement all this planning, which we have mentioned in a few years, our major cities will have nothing to do with the picture they present today. Public transport, road safety, electricity, road projects, SBAKs and mobility, all of which I mentioned to you are a single plan for better quality of life. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the amendment on which the Change Movement has had a number of questions, as has the SYRIZA colleagues. Let me tell you this very simple. To prove to you how transparent we want the procedures to be, we have brought this regulation to the House. We could not bring her to the House. But that is what we are doing with your papers openly. When and as long as there are certified machines for cleaning the air, then we will be ready transparently, efficiently and at a very rapid rate to obtain them. Let us not try to create impressions where there are no, because, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the political lie has its limits. I'm glad you're voting in favour of this bill. At least at this difficult moment for the country - at a time when we seem to be divided into a bill in which there were some objections, but which we incorporated - we come as a political world and at least show that we are united. I think that's what the people want from us, and that's what the political world has to do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy, Tourism, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, have tabled a draft law on 10-3-2021: ‘Presenting a Property Distribution Convention - Establishment of Property Right of Properties of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - Saint Cosmas and related issues’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is adjourned: "Greece in motion: Sustainable Urban Mobility - Micromobility - Arrangements for the modernisation, simplification and digitisation of procedures of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-four articles, four ministerial amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u344	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u345	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u346	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Greece in the motion: Sustainable Urban Mobility - Micromobility - Arrangements for modernisation, simplification and digitisation of procedures of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u348	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-10-S1-commons.u349	With the consent of the House at 20.15 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, March 11, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Standardisation of Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of the Council of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and other provisions', in accordance with the additional agenda.
