ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 11-3-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday, 11 March 2021 were ratified, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of the Council of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In the context of the Prime Minister's time we will discuss the question raised by the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras to the Prime Minister, on the subject: ‘Prime police violence against citizens on the pretext of respecting health measures which the Prime Minister and government officials are constantly violating’. I would like to remind you that the speaking time under Rule 132(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Part I, is for the Member of Parliament's Rules of Procedure ten minutes in order to develop the timely question and five minutes for his second-guess and for the Prime Minister twenty-minutes for the prototype and ten minutes for the second-line. Times as usual are indicative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have no say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr. President, we have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u5	You can't take the floor, Mr. Gregoriadis. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a reason for the questioner and the replyer. Excuse me. Sit down because you don't have the floor. Don't write anything in the Minutes than Mr. Gregoriadis says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u6	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u7	Mr Gregoriadis, you do not have the floor, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u8	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u9	The floor is held by the Chief of Staff Response and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by expressing my sympathy to all the citizens who have been abused over the last few days of police arbitrary phenomena, young people, students, mothers, children. I would also like to express my sympathy and wishes for a rapid recovery to the police officer who was abused by hooligan attacks on Tuesday afternoon in New Smirni. These phenomena are detestable. These phenomena cannot be tolerated by any democratic citizen. And it is the state's responsibility and the government's objective responsibility to ensure social peace, the security of both the citizens and the police. So today, after everything that has happened over the last few days, I am not just here to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis, under parliamentary control, but I am here to blame you. I blame you, because at the most critical moment for the Greek society with the citizens pressed, tired, desperate of pandemic for a year now, you have been trying to escape your responsibilities by choosing tension and division as your basic strategy. I blame you, because not only have you failed with tragic results in the management of the pandemic, but also because even today with thousands of dead, thousands of cases and our fellow citizens happilying in intensive, you are still ignoring reality, showing the citizens a broad reality of so-called success, and even worse to exploit pandemic as an opportunity to impose restrictions on democracy and rights and anti-Fraud reforms. I blame you, Mr Mitsotakis, because while you have failed to deal with the economic crisis that is hitting millions of households and leading to a society of frustration, you insist on hiding behind constructed numbers and sharing beads in the middle class and the workers at the same time as what you are doing and above all with what you do not do, you are preparing a new large circle of economic and social tragedy at the place. I blame you, Mr Mitsotakis, because, in the midst of pandemic and crisis, your government has been thrown away into an unprecedented smuggling of public money with direct assignments, uncontrolled supplies of millions, provocative ruffles, sponsorships of all kinds in all kinds. I also blame you because you have felt consciously one of the pillars of democracy, which is to inform the citizen of an unprecedented redemption, extortion and pressure with your flag, the well-known list of state advertising, you are turning the good of informing the citizen into propaganda government. I blame you for not in one, but in many cases you have shown an unacceptable arrogance and arrogantness in violating the hard measures you have imposed on the citizens. I blame you because, with your attitude, you are ultimately undermining not only the citizens' confidence in your government, but also against the other side and this is tragic for the scientists behind whom you are constantly hiding your frustration and inability to deal with the pandemic. Finally, I blame you because, in the face of these deadlocks that your policy is causing you, in the face of the deterioration of the government and of your image, to react in a way not just spasm, not just impatient, irresponsible, but also dangerous, by enforcing repression instead of persuading, lying instead of the truth, deception instead of dialogue and, finally, division instead of the time necessary for social cohesion and social peace as a whole. You promised the citizens security. What you have caused over the past year - and especially these days - is to live in this country a zealous insecurity regime that spreads to all spheres of social and personal life, to work, to health protection, to fear of tomorrow and now in fear of citizens getting out of their homes on the squares, in their neighborhoods. And, above all, I blame you because you do not understand that it is not just against you that SYRIZA and the parties of Anti-Population, but against you it is the entire Greek society, a society that is angry, yes, not only from the course of pandemic and economics, not only from the measures of incarceration and distance, not only from the longest and most inefficient locator that has been imposed throughout Europe, not only by them, Mr Mitsotakis, but also by your hypocrisy, a hypocrisy that gives rise to the sense of injustice among citizens and a sense of indignation. And instead of you to understand that you are causing this anger, what are you doing? You are resorting to authoritarianism and repression. We do not get enough the suppression of our lives and our daily life from the forced restrictive measures, we now also have orders of your police to abuse young families, because they took a walk out of the house in the neighborhood square and make citizens feel like they are in the state of siege - where? - in their neighborhoods. You told us the other day that rage didn't lead anywhere. We agree with you. Why, though, is that anger, did you wonder? Because while you have failed miserably, a year now you have not had the emoluments to say an apology, to take on even part of that responsibility. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because at the time you're chasing the citizens and imposing ruthless fines, you show with arrogance - the arrogance of power - that you have the opportunity to make your walks to Parnitha and to party to Ikaria. Because you've all been saying that you've achieved everything and done it well, and yet, the situation is out of control. And every time you decide on new measures or an extension of measures, you charge the responsibility to the usual suspects, to the afflicted citizens. That's why there's anger, Mr. Mitsotakis. And it's not the wrath of the Bags, it's the wrath of the housewives. This wrath to fear, Mr. Mitsotakis, the wrath of the housewives! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The wrath of the housewives of a medium-sized neighbourhood, a medium-sized neighborhood in Athens, that you turned it into a war zone! And the worst part is that what we saw in Nea Smyrna wasn't the excesses of some thermo-heads, it wasn't, unfortunately, an isolated incident, but it's your strategic choice. Because other times there have been excesses of juror policemen who have been condemned, but, immediately from the political leadership, you have not only now chosen to apologize, even from the lips of the minister sitting next to you - on the same day would have deviated this tension - not only did you not ask for apologies, not only did you immediately not put the perpetrator of the police, but you have also given your MPs the same excuse on the same day to target the victim, making the file of his political opinions public, disseminating his name and his beliefs on full-scale transmission, as if the political opinions of a citizen were just an excuse for his misuse. In those days, are you turning us, Mr. Mitsotakis? And I wonder - I really wonder - how things are going on. For the citizen who was beaten in Nea Smyrna within a few hours, you knew what coffee he preferred for, for Lignade, who has been appointed artistic director at the National for a year and a half, you have been completely ignorant and you have fallen out of the clouds. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's very strange, isn't it, guys, this perfect state? But the worst of all - the worst of all! - what I most blame you for, Mr. Mitsotakis, is that you personally are the orchestra of this tension. While last Tuesday you had the information from the Authorities, as they revealed reports that saw the light yesterday, first and foremost at "Kathemerini" in a vulgar title, but also in other newspapers, while you had the information - one that only you could have in time - that hooligan of all the Attica football teams would draw to Nea Smirni to avert the civil peaceful protest, rather than isolate them, or does Mr Chrysochoidis not have such experience? - to ensure the safety of protesters but also of police officers, all you have done was to lay the blame on your political opponents, with a personal statement, not of the press office, by a personal statement. While you knew what would happen, just before the incidents you made a personal statement to show SYRIZA, your political opponent. And while at night a policeman was at risk from the cruelty not of peaceful protesters - and you knew it - and you didn't even know about the usual anti-determinationists - and you knew it - you chose to make a dividing order, leaving again implied on your political opponents. We, Mr Mitsotakis, unlike you who have not found a single word to say about police violence, since the first second clearly, unequivocally, condemned the horrific attack on the police officer, calling for the vicious cycle of violence and tension to be stopped. You have expressly condemned only one side and, of course, your political opponents, whom you wish to load all extremes, believing that you will get rid of your own responsibilities. This, however, is not the task of a Prime Minister who owes a democracy to be a guarantor of social unity and normality. This is a dangerous attitude, because you are thus proving that you are not interested - and you are not in a position ultimately - to guarantee the integrity and security of neither the citizens nor the police, but all you are interested in is slandering your political opponents. You also prove that increasing police violence is clearly your political choice, it is a choice of polarization and division. And there are dozens of incidents, it's not one. From the case of Mr. Indar to the abuse of the young man in New Smyrna. From your insistence in the midst of strict lockdown measures to legislate in Parliament continuously on restrictions on rights, your choice to put the police at universities, until daily attacks on young people. You are not after all seeking security. You are sowing fear and insecurity, and in almost every case you are the one who is causing reactions - that is what you want - with violent intervention, with unnecessarily interfering, where there is no reason. Yesterday, for example, at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, while an announcement had come out of the students that at noon it would be dissolved quietly and the occupation would be resolved, you rushed a few hours earlier to invade. Why? To cause reactions? Why are you doing this? To cause it, because you finally have the strategy of tension rather than normality as a strategy. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Did you say anything, Mr. Chrysochide?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u11	No, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u12	Because I remember that you had other opinions ten years ago when you said in an interview with Mr. Papachela that we don't arrest people for their ideas and that we can't ask the police to have that role. You've changed your mind in the process. I am therefore obliged to warn you that violence feeds violence, that indiscriminate and inviting repression is preparing tragedies. If you don't understand that, Mr. Mitsotakis, you're inadequate. But if you understand it, and you insist on it, you're dangerous. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I blame you, Mr. Mitsotakis, that you are consciously setting up a police scene and that revealed a step and a half now, when the police entered movies in October 2019 to get young people up, because they were watching the movie 'Joker'. How could we know you'd turn New Smyrna into Gotham City? When men of the Action Team entered the home of Dimitris Indarre, tied him backwards, hooded him and tortured him. When Flevaris men of MATs in Chios broke cars and beat the inhabitants, calling them "Turkish seeds" and beating them. When the police in October beat and proceeded to arrest students in Maroussi, who held four days in prison at the General Police Directorate as common criminals. When in June during a rally at Volos the twenty - seven - year - old Vassilis Magos was being beaten and one month later he left his last breath. When the police attacked young and young people who were simply sitting in the squares of Agia Paraskevi, Kypsel, Kallithea, Upper City of Thessaloniki in May. When men of MATs in November sprayed a five - year - old child with his mother at a cafeteria in Galachi. When the MATs attacked unnecessarily in October 2020 to the thousands of people celebrating a great democratic victory in our society outside the court of Appeal, they celebrated the condemnation of the neonazis of the Golden Dawn. There are dozens of other incidents and I'm filing them all in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] All of this is not very small and cannot be characterised as individual incidents. What does all this show? All this shows a depopulation, shows an uncontrolled situation, for which none of you has ever taken responsibility. The truth is that you, with the choice of the Minister, Mr. Chryssohoid, set up a committee to investigate police violence and head a university, Mr. Alivizato. This committee, as we have learned recently, both from the book itself published a few months ago and from the statement he made the other day, does not exist for over a year. Because after the Indian case, as he describes, Mr. Alivizatos realized his role would be absolutely decorative, saying that his committee would not allow it to be used as an alibi to cover unlawful actions by the police. Moto, I read it. When he saw that Mr Chrysochide's police, not only did he apologize to the family, but also accuse her of collusion with the occupants, to put the blame on her, then he decided to speed up the submission of the finding and cease the operation of the committee. Since then, almost a year has passed and no one has been interested. Apparently, it was a disposable communication firework. No one was found to ask anyone to answer the committee. But you rushed away the day before yesterday, Mr Mitsotakis, following my question to call Mr. Alivizatos in Maximos and as a miracle after a year he found an answer to his findings. Except that the answer has a previous date, March 9, a year later, just so you don't get humiliated. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. But I do not know if he is getting away with what Mr Chrysochide has done, because you are 'empty' him in this way. A year has not answered and you have come to answer a year later when I asked you a question. So I blame you, Mr Mitsotakis, for consciously covering impunity in the incidents of police arbitrariness. I also accuse you of treating the Greek Police as arm of your party mechanism when you hire special guards outside, without any objective criterion, where those who receive the interviews are not from the ADP two of the three. And then you throw these untrained people into the crowd, these young children, who "blood their blood" as it suits your political agenda. I want you to answer me honestly. Do you think that's how citizens can feel safe? Does he feel security in a neighborhood when he sees these pictures? Does it feel safe for a whole new generation that you've put on the mark and hitting it ruthlessly in the universities this morning, at the parks, in the neighborhoods? I wonder. Where are you taking the country like this? On the rocks, you're taking her. I'm telling you straight away. Your political failure on the pandemic front is debatable. Your anti-democratic manipulation emerges dark periods of suffocation, propaganda and police immunity, periods that have tortured this place, which have opened up greedy wounds. What you are after all seeking causes irreparable damage to democracy, the country and the citizens. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I also blame you, Mr Mitsotakis, when you speak of unity, you speak hypocritically. In a democracy, unity is not accepting one's desire. But, in fact, you are not asking for unity, you are asking for silence, for no one to talk, for no one to question, for everyone to sit in their homes quietly. You choose the acidification. Promote splitting. Why? Because what you're afraid of today is what joins Greeks and Greek women. You've been afraid of what you've caused for so many months. Because you know what the Greeks are united in today. They're united in not trusting a government that's screwed up in the pandemic. They are united in the fact that the image of a Prime Minister is insulting them to break the lockdown constantly, in that they believe that the support measures are completely ineffective and no-existent, in that they appreciate that their financial situation is bad and will worsen even further, in that they do not trust the majority of the media because they consider them to be plausible to a government propaganda and in that they do not want their neighborhoods to be transformed into a war zone by the uncontrolled action of fantasized police officers and fantasy hooligansed. What do you say to all this, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u13	He'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u14	I know her in advance, dear mayor and Admiral and MP. The answer is one and it is the wrong answer: 'It is all because of SYRIZA'. It's a tested answer. We are not listening to this answer for the first time. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are wrong if you think that having an entire society that is suffocating you will be able to work on the climate of discontent, slandering your political opponents. Because that's what you're doing. You're charging SYRIZA to anyone who criticizes you. Everywhere you see 'yours' and 'ours'. Everywhere. But society is not like that. The country is not divided into camps, thankfully. We are not in Greece for several decades. They don't divide families today because one is left and the other is right. Greek society is another society you're trying to make it look like. It's a society that overrun the divisions of decades to get one step ahead. And, of course, the whole democratic political world has made a great contribution to this, to being clear, from all the political groups and from yours. But that is also the need for people today. The need for people today is to go forward, one step further, to see what country we will live on the next day of the pandemic, to see how our young people and young people live, how we organise our economy to heal the wounds of the recession and to stand back on our feet, how we will have better schools and universities, how we will be safe again against a new health crisis, how we will protect the environment, our natural wealth, and how, in the end, we will link two concepts that are complementary, freedom and security. Because there is no security without freedom, as is freedom without security. Finally, we need to see how we can reorganise ourselves in solid, modern bases, European bases, the Greek Police, with the abolition of units that are aimed at not crime, but the citizen and social movements, with the proper training and retraining of police officers, with a great effort to bring the police officer closer to the citizen, not as a fear, but as a guarantee of his security, to be the police officer next door and not towards the citizen, to inspire him trust, security, not fear and terror. These, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, are those who are tormenting the Greek society today and I fear that you have nothing to say to them. Instead of giving solutions, you load society with new problems. Because while you have the responsibility for the damage that day after day grows, you come and yell at them in their homes with prime time proclamations that those who do not agree with you are opposite, are divisive and will punish them. Do you not understand how insulting this is is for people who have been in eight of the last 12 months in their homes? Do you not understand, while you play games with social peace, that at the same time you are playing with the patience of thousands of our fellow citizens? Don't you understand that the real enemy is in intensive care units, which dozens today, are fighting us hundreds of fellow citizens about whether they're going to live? The real enemy is in the sector of commerce, tourism, the focus, where thousands of workers are struggling for whether they will have jobs and income tomorrow. Do you not understand that while you imagine that SYRIZA is the one who raises the world, the ones who went down with their families and friends in Nea Smyrna are people who voted for you in the previous election and you have disproved them? Mr. Mitsotakis, I'll tell you right away. You can't anymore. You have failed in the pandemic, you have failed the economy, and now you want your own failure to pay for it by the citizens of this country, to turn half of society towards the other half. That won't pass. Why don't you talk to unwise people. Why are you addressing citizens who always judge of what they live and live in in a suffocating regime that must be brought to an end? You can no longer and you have no right to cause more suffocation than the one you have already caused. The unity of our people is the most valuable thing we have in these difficult times. It is the unity that has been building our society for a year, with the support of young people, while respecting the protection measures, with democratic vigilance towards arbitraryness, with the help of the fellowman, with the responsibility of keeping the country up for the next day. You can't anymore. But we have this unity to preserve it. And I assure you that we will safeguard it at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u15	The President and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u16	I really wonder, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the citizens who are following today's debate in this House still want to confront high tone or a substantial debate that will demonstrate in practice what we are saying, which will enable the citizens to see who really invests in the concept of unity and who is ultimately challenging division and tension. The parliamentary procedure gives the Chief of Police the opportunity to shape the framework and the tone of the debate. You have had the opportunity, Mr Tsipras, today to get rid of the circumstances and to do what you hypocritically claim to be interested in, the so-called low-tons section. You used, if I counted well, seventeen times the word 'category'. You wouldn't exactly call it a low-ton approach. Except when Emil Zola wrote "I blame", tell your writer that he expressed his disobedience to hypocrisy and fanaticism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would therefore like to give you the so-called 'category', because you are the one who incarnations hypocrisy and fanatical, and unfortunately you have proved it once again today! I am in the House because five days ago the Chief of Police Vice-Population tabled a timely question on the phenomena of police violence, on the occasion of the fierce beating of a citizen who had precedented in the square of Nea Smyrna. I accepted not only to condemn this fact from Parliament's Step, but also to present what the government has done, but also what it is going to do to limit such cases of police violence in the future. Since I accepted to answer the question - I did so immediately on Monday, since I was informed that it had been tabled - the sad events of the next day have taken place, which almost had a tragic outcome. I think we've all been shattered by the attempted murder of the twenty-seven-year-old cop who was found on the street. They followed statements - protests. I will say this again: the citizens today, Mr Tsipras, are not yet seeking a dead end. They seek truth, seek solutions. I have no doubt that they are watching us and will be strict in their judgment. So I would also like to talk about something broader, since you have spread the canvas of your criticism far beyond and far above this particular incident, to talk about the great risk of someone turning the pandemic against health into a danger to society and on the flammable matter of fatigue from the constraints, which we all agreed are necessary - we have all agreed on this - for the protection of citizens, to light up a fire that will eventually burn the unity and safety of citizens. The situation on the coronary front is not unknown. In particular, Europe has been tested since the outbreak of the third wave. In fact, a number of countries have been hit by the fourth wave, which forces large countries - you know that - like Germany and France, to prolong the bans on other countries, such as the Czech Republic, to transfer patients to other states as their hospitals break down. The problem also arises today in Greece. It is, however, dealt with because, today, intensive care units exceed a thousand four hundred of the five hundred fifty-seven that you delivered to us. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Every day there are thirty-five thousand vaccinations. I am tabling the relevant data, which rank Greece - because once again you have told us that we have already failed against the pandemic front - in the fifth place in the ranking of European countries in relation to the speed with which we are making the vaccines in question. No one calls it a huge failure to deal with pandemic. And that, Mr Tsipras, is not evidence of the government's conduct in the channels. It is the official information provided by the ECDC. So I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The possibilities of hospitalization are increasing. At the same time, however, Greeks are also being shielded. And today we can safely tell the Greeks that the end of this adventure is now visible. Until the mutations come, however, they help the virus multiply faster and make its last attack more dangerous. The road that science shows us, until a critical mass of our Greek fellow citizens has been vaccinated, is one: mask, distances, avoidance of unnecessary confusing, personal hygiene. You mentioned once again, Mr Tsipras, the flawless, in your view, failure of the government to deal with pandemic. What is the indicator, Mr Tsipras, that measures the success or failure of a government in this matter? Is pandemic a Greek phenomenon when you talk about thousands of people dead? Is the coronary a virus that bears the characteristics and distinctiveness of this government? A comparison measure can only, unfortunately, exist. And that is the number of our fellow citizens who have lost their lives from the pandemic in relation to what happened in other European countries. There Greece has the fourth best performance. I repeat, Greece has the fourth best performance! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is unacceptable today, at a time when the country is trying to open up its economy, at a time when, yes, it will use as an argument the successful management of the pandemic to attract visitors from abroad in the summer, to come and discredit something that is confirmed by all official evidence. If our country were on the European average, Mr Tsipras, we would have lamented seven thousand of our fellow citizens, a town. Think about it a little. On average. We're not talking about the worst countries. We've all done this together. And we did so, because we have taken more stringent measures, we have taken them earlier and our fellow citizens have respected these measures to a great extent, even though a tiredness has now occurred. So, how do you come and say, once again, that because we have steadfastly failed the pandemic, we are establishing a police state? Do you not understand that you are not attacking the government, but are you attacking the country with all the unscrupulous things you say? Do you not have any sense of fundamental responsibility to see the big picture, to see the real facts, so that you do not come in this way to distort and cancel an effort that is not just ours - I will tell you again - but is it an attempt by health doctors, is it an effort by all our fellow citizens, who are, with great effort, sitting in their homes today? Why are you doing this? What are you going to win? Do you think you're going to harm me or harm the government when you say such lies irresistibly? Because it's a lie you're saying and you know it's a lie. You know it's a lie, and yet you say it! You're still saying we failed to manage the pandemic. No, Mr. Tsipras, we haven't failed! We didn't fail! And it's an insult to all those who tried! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We also failed with the vaccinations. And it's not just us. Ask our fellow citizens their experience of this process. With the professionalisation of health, the technological progress we have achieved, our country has been able to set an example for imitation, bringing about an extremely complex task. This is the victory of Greece, it is the victory of the Greeks, it is not the victory of the government. And when you cancel it, you're in conflict with the harsh reality. And if you think that with what you're saying, you're expressing the whole of society, you're making a very big mistake, Mr. Tsipras. You are expressing a small minority, which is still investing in empathy and division. You said the same thing about the economy, that we failed the economy happily. How many times have you told us that Greece will have the worst recession in Europe? How many times did you tell us? At least ten times. I don't have to testify. The recession is 8.2%. We are a little above the European average. We are better than Spain, we are better than Italy, we are almost as good as Portugal. In other words, in the health crisis we have done better and in the economy we have done better. That's what the real facts say. You're your violin, "we've failed everything"! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unemployment has been retained. We did all this at a price. The price wasn't small. I just announced yesterday a new package for business support. Two and a half billion euros are added to the EUR 24 billion that we have disbursed in 2020 and that is EUR 11.5 billion, for the time being, in 2021. What did you say? "Handers" in middle class. Isn't that what you said? "Handers" in middle class. The repayable advance, which is disbursed within forty-eight hours of the submission of the application, is ‘hardr’ in the middle class! The possibility not to repay 50% of the advance payment of the first three repayable advances, and that is a 'handra', is it not? Or the possibility of getting a 15% discount. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I don't really know if you think anyone believes all that you're saying. And because you have a certain background in the expression of your speech, it's not my job to recommend you how you go. I will come back to this issue then, when I express my views on what is really behind this strategy of yours. Society's tired, I'll say it again. But we still have a few difficult weeks ahead of us, until we can build a wall of vaccination, which will allow us, together with the best time and the expected decline in this third wave we see, to be able to reopen economic activity and do so with confidence and security. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that successes at this juncture are easily reduced and difficulties are easily magnified. A year with successive restrictions, in fact, we're tired of it. I think we all understand - first of all - the anxiety of the professional who stays away from his job, the agony of the young man who can't get out, see his friends, drink a coffee, the agony of the student, the first-year student, who dreamed of his choice and now finds that he should do the lessons online for at least a year, the agony of the 17-year-old and seventy-year-old - I have a child at that age - who says to you 'What will happen? Last year, I didn't imagine her like that. I'd like to be at school." Especially the children who are preparing for the pan-Hellenics are now wanting to be able to be present and to be able to support them in this great effort. We understand the difficulty of grandma, who cannot embrace her grandchildren. And we all have a reason to complain. But indignation - I will say again - cannot be general, cannot be blind. Our enemy, Mr. Tsipras, is one and we agree on that. You're not my enemy. You may see me as an enemy, but you are not my enemy. Enemy is one. Enemy at this juncture is the coronary. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At such critical times, societies need unity and logic. Because a problem that concerns everyone only finds a solution, with solidarity, with discipline and maturity. And that's finally what's about the whole world. So, what's going on here? What's going on in Greece? Remember what happened last month. On 9-2 we had a thousand four hundred ninety-six cases, seventeen deaths and two hundred eighty-four tubes. On 9-3 we had three thousand and fifteen cases, forty-six deaths and four hundred eighty-four of our fellow humans persecuted. These two moments don't just unite them to double the risk. The behaviour of a particular political leader, a leader who reproachedly said that he accepts the risk of dangerous meetings in the protests, also unites them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At this juncture, at this difficult time you are insisting today on organising gatherings and organizing marches. When do you do that? You're doing it at the top of the pandemic. ‘Spreading the Disease: Protest in Times of Pandemics’. I do not think you need any scientific research, such as that of the University of Hubolt, to substantiate that at this juncture mass gatherings with great intensity, often without masks, are - fact - a supertransponder to the coronary. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you agree or disagree with this assumption? If you agree, then you should argue that the good of the protest, which we protected and did not ban mergers - concentrations are still subject to the restrictions of the General Protests Act - is superior to the good of human life and that you are consciously taking the risk. That's what you're telling us. When you come today as a political party and encourage and mobilize - because, I imagine, you do not question it that you are behind the concentrations that are being made - when you come and do so, you risk increasing cases exponentially and exerting additional pressure on the health system. Obviously, the protests are not the only reason why we have an increase in cases, but I wonder if this really is today by the Chief of Officerial Response can be considered a responsible attitude. I will not speak of charges or use a vocabulary that is outdated. I will, however, afflict you that you are trying consciously - you have done so today - to turn the legitimate tiredness of others into an anti-government argument. I notice that you want to fish in the blurred waters of the pandemic, to rebuild new squares and new indignant ones and to live up to the same slogans that at another time brought you to power: junkers, paid media, authoritarian state, return to Greece of the 1950s. I think the problem is not the way Mr. Tsipras is trying to put labels on me and on the line I have the honor of leading. Besides, to describe a reality, you must first be able to understand it. The problem right now is different. Since Axio Opposition failed to express a convincing alternative proposal that contradicts democratic dialogue in government policy, you are essentially choosing public health as an area of political action. That won't do you any good. But it certainly does not do good to democracy and social cohesion. And since this debate, Mr Tsipras, is interactive, I would like you to reply to your dentistry if you are aware of a party of Commissioners' opposition in Europe that today openly supports public meetings. One! One! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, as far as I know, all the reactions I see are from marginal parties, they are from mask-negatives, vaccine-negatives, negative protection measures. So please tell me, Mr Tsipras, in your dentistry, in which European country the Civic Opposition openly supports public demonstrations in the middle of a coronary protest by taking the risk, as you have said, of participating in the spread of the virus. You'll have a chance in your dentistry, I imagine, to answer. As I said in my introduction, today's sitting has a double occasion: on the one hand, it has the unacceptable behaviour of a police officer against a young man last Sunday, a behaviour which is already being investigated by the agency, by the Citizens' Counselor and by justice, with the police themselves being made available. On the other hand, we have the bloody episodes of New Izmir, which almost cost a twenty-seven-year-old police officer who caused the injury of nine police officers, the disruption of a neighbourhood and the concern of an entire country. My first position is unequivocal: I condemn it unequivocally, I do not think it has any place in our daily lives. I condemn it regardless of what caused it and without considering what was before it and what followed it. Only when the uniform respects the citizen can win his own respect. And only when his behavior is professional, it can be done efficiently. The policeman must have restraint, even when insulted, even when pre-convulsed. And I think there are a lot of incidents of this kind. He must follow the rules, even when a suspect refuses to follow them. Nothing less and nothing more. At the same time, of course, I can't forget that the police were in the square because there was a crowd. In other words, it has been found on a mission that we as a state have given it to defend public health. I would also like to point out that more than eleven million checks have been carried out since the beginning of the pandemic. It's been done without any problems. They have been made to their overwhelming majority with understanding, with a smile, with courtesy and dare I say very often with the tolerance to be shown by the institutions of order when they consider that the citizen is at the limit of legitimacy. That's a rule today. And we must not forget, when you're apprehending to the police, that police officers are children next door. Many of the new kids who have been in the police force are twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five years old. When they take off their uniforms, they'll go and have coffee to the same cafes that the rest of our youths hang out. So why is this systematic targeting of the police? And let's say something even if we look at the other side of the coin: How many times did police officers enter the battle against the coronary, without it being typically part of their duties, surpassed themselves and showed great devotion, great empathy, did something more to save a human life of a person who may have had a heart attack to care for a new child who might have suffered a seizure? We must not indict ourselves to arrest the police because yes, there are incidents of police violence. But when one invests in easy slogans and easy splits, one can just form such impressions. The figures in this case will certainly be investigated. You have no doubt that the responsibilities will be attributed, and where a judgment is required, we will allow justice to do its job. As far as I know, the Indian case has not been finalised yet. Invoke a case in which some bad impressions have actually been formed. But when he arrived in the court, it was found that things were different. Another attempt to stand in the picture of the moment without seeing the essence of the case. I would also like to say to you, because you did not say a word about the substance, about the tampering, about what we can do to deal with these incidents, that this government with Mr.4662, which he has voted on, has taken a very important step towards dealing with these incidents. I read from the report of the Citizens' Counselor dated 24 September 2020: Two positive steps are noted by the Citizens' Counselor, which was made by this government. The first is that the disciplinary law of police officers was amended in December 2019 and the second decisive step recommends amending the national mechanism legislation. On substance, the Citizens' Counselor acknowledges that he is now taking on inquiries so that he can investigate such cases. So, along with the conclusions of the Committee on Alibizatou, I present them in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mrs Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it is true, since your question was about the Commission's finding, remember: did the Alibizatou Committee investigate cases of police violence at what very period, Mr Tsipras? From 2017 to 2018. In your time of police violence, the Alibizatou Commission has investigated. So why didn't you move on to these moves that this government has made to reduce the incidents? I'll tell you why. As we speak of Mr Alvizato, whom you so easily invoke, I should like to say that he wrote an article entitled 'The agenda, the marginalities and responsibilities of SYRIZA', in which he raises the question: 'Where is it because of SYRIZA's apparent sympathy for political violence?' I will not answer that question. I will read two sentences by Mr Alvizatou and I would consider it a great success if, in today's debate, I could express your agreement from you on these two positions, since Mr Alvizatou was also the occasion of today's debate. So I read, Mr Tsipras and ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA: 'Only sick minds can consider that incidents such as the impoverishment of the dean of the Economic University, the conquests of public buildings for flea coils and the molotovs on 'peaceous' - in in introductory forms - to be normal, which one should tolerate, in the context of freedom of expression.' You agree or disagree with this position. A clear answer. A ‘yes’ or a ‘no’. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm reading a second. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You agree. You've progressed. You took a small step in the right direction. I am also reading a second abstention by Mr Alvizatou, because we must not forget that this case is unfolding on a canvass of incidents that have afflicted Greek society in the past month: "If the Koufundina case is dealt with in its real dimensions, if that is to say, if it is seen as a conflict of marginal current of ideas by some unrepentant supporters of armed violence with democracy and the rule of law, then I believe that tension will fall". Do you agree or disagree, Mr. Tsipras, with this approach of Mr. Alivizatos? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since you have asked us about the conclusion of the Alibizatou Commission, the committee has indeed made a number of proposals. Some of these have already been implemented: discreetly to police officers, legal framework for the operation of the first forty cameras on the accessories of police officers, a new programme of all police academies in which constitutional and criminal law is taught next to individual and political rights. I wonder, Mr Tsipras, what you have done for your day. You have come and told us today that the ADR must be dissolved because it is an aggressive suppression unit. I did not intend to raise a few things, but you gave me the floor on your provocative speech to remind them of them. On your own days: ‘Auctions. Wild wood from MATs’. "SYRIZA sprayed the protesters and filed a complaint about police arbitrary." "SYRIZA vs SYRIZA and police violence." Of course, the “Eventors’ Newspaper” “First time and left repression”. You used the MATs and the Police, first and foremost, to protect your own personal image. You guys made preventive inductions when you went to talk to your gatherings. You've booked Herod Attica. You forgot the pensioners. Then there wasn't police violence, Mr. Tsipras? Or was police violence a convenient tool to avoid social reactions? Or were we not sure which side the molotovs were falling from good or bad, Mr. Tsipras? It depends on who you're on. Isn't that right? Didn't you tell Mr. Javarra? We're forgetting about this. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I want to be clear. The problem of diversions in the use of force by state officials is not only a Greek problem. It's a global problem. I'd tell you that in our country we don't have too much such incidents. Mr Alivizatou rightly points out that where our country differs from other countries it is, not to the extent of the incidents of violence, but to the fact that, until the way in which the incidents are investigated - I would remind you of the legalisation of our own government - there was indeed a briefing within the police which did not allow the actual investigation of these incidents to be carried out, so that justice can finally be attributed. And Mr. Alivizatos is right about that diagnosis of him. That is why it is very important that the initiative taken by this government should further strengthen the Citizens' Consultant so that he can investigate such incidents. And I will say quite clearly that despite the steps taken by our police, yes, it still has a way to become the one that suits us in a modern democracy. There will therefore be behaviours which are inappropriate between the very good work done by the police. But we are now on the path of modernization and efficiency. I have a responsibility, however, as Prime Minister of the country - because the country has continued and the state has continued - to apologise to all those who were hurt by police violence in the past and on our days and days, Mr Tsipras. And by the retired people you sprayed, I will apologise for the incidents of police violence that preceded our own governance, I will apologise. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am closing my reference to this incident with four more communications, because so far we have had a debate on police violence and I have not heard your prototype - beyond seventeen I blame - not a single proposal on how to improve the problem that we are facing. My view is that all the forces, "DIA", Direct Action, "DELTA", MATs must carry an individual video recorder and sound, so that no one can build events in the beam. We'll have reactions from the Privacy Authority. I want your clear opinion, Mr Tsipras, whether you agree or not you disagree with this proposal. Cameras everywhere with all the cops. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, we should be able to work with other police officers, such as the French and British, so that we can strengthen the psychography tests that are necessary, so that we can diagnose in advance whether a new police officer, a candidate policeman, has some tendency to violence that makes him dangerous to take up this heavy business.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u17	With self-defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u18	Did you say anything, Mr. Voutsi? I didn't hear. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u19	With self-defense being the cameras. Not just to show.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u20	With a self-defense? Oh, the cameras are bothering you now. When the cameras show the assholes to throw away your molotovs, the cameras are bothering you now. So you don't want the cameras on the cops. All right, you'll tell me later. Thirdly, the Ministry of Civil Protection has undertaken a commitment to shortly bring to Parliament a bill on the overall upgrade of police studies. Fourthly, the Citizens' Ombudsman will obtain by law a special assistant with exclusive competence to assist in dealing with police violence, with an autonomous structure of ten specialised officials. These are the government's proposals on how we can further strengthen the framework to ensure that the phenomena of police violence are kept to a minimum. Ladies and gentlemen, the facts are unfortunately unnoticed. At the time the infectious ones warned of the danger of meetings, one accepted the risk of protests. Indeed, there have been many, too many demonstrations last month. The government - as I have said - has avoided exacerbating the problem. He took the view that the parliamentary forces would stand up to the circumstances, that they would act with the enthusiasm of responsibility and that the right to protest would not jeopardise the right to life. Today I have no difficulty admiting that we have unfortunately missed, unfortunately you have again begun to mobilize on the side of the margin with your youth, Mr Tsipras, to move to the rhythm of the slogan of renamed Syntagma square in Koufantina Square and in front of the banners "I was born November 17th". You two got together together. And with your MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u21	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u22	Shame, shame! Mr President, can we have a little class in the Chamber? That's what's bothering you. That's the picture...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u23	When your Chief speaks, don't complain if you hear such conduct. You're welcome, then. Silence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Tsipras, take a look. This is the image of the Rector at the Aristotle University, in the occupation you defended. "The victory of the revolutionary Koufundina's hunger strike." 'Solidarity to Kufontina'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Three of your fellow Members were found, names, to support a occupation that was made with a stake in Kufontina's demands. And then you come to accuse us that we are stumbling the tension, that we want to divide, when you're part of these opinions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, next time I will be forced to withdraw you to class if you cannot understand that the Prime Minister and the Chief of Anti-Population are top institutional factors. Whoever's at Stepma has to respect him, much more these two faces. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, it seems that some have allergy to democratic dialogue. Around this issue, Mr Tsipras, around the issue of Koufontina many wanted to rewrite the story, betting that today's twenty-nine did not know that it was also Thanos Axarlian who killed in cold blood at noon Koufontina. Perhaps some bet on the fact that they did not know Paul Bakoyannis, a politician who fought the dictatorship and wanted to unite the Greeks, a progressive voice, a naughty child of his prolongation who if he had lived, I am sure the young people would vote for it, following his studies, the path of personal provocation, the small village of Eurytania, the great capitals of the world. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Until you arrived, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you referred to the New Smyrna demonstration, to co-organise with calls from your own sites and with full knowledge that the gathering would also find turmoiling elements, a gathering along with the "Rubicon", anarchists and hooligans. You had announced that before the meeting took place. You knew very well what you did, then, and in the name of your party interest, you proceeded to a health and social sabotage throughout the country. It was a dangerous, totally irresponsible initiative, because I cannot accept that a party that is being taken on as a motion, ignores what can happen when it is consciously consistent with hoodiers. In such a case, the Chief and his staff would be naive. But if they knew what would follow and took the risk, then you weren't just naive, you were politically fatal. I imagine you or your partners will explain that to us. Of course, the savage lynching of your cop found you unprepared in front of your guilt. We warned you the same day. You went too far. He had prevented you, of course, the call your Member had sent, Ms. Sia Anagnostopoulou: "The Nea Smirni shows the way. Citizens defend their neighborhoods from government authoritarianism." The final conclusion, unfortunately, is one. The great liberal party is called upon to demarcate itself against an incident of individual behaviour - and to others that may exist, it is not just one, it is more - of a state institution and it does so honestly, it does so with courage and it does so with justice. You guys, call on you to do something harder. What SYRIZA must do is send from his own soul, which, with the voice of the former MP Kyritsis insists on threatening: "Each week we will have scenes of New Izmir," or as the youth secretary SYRIZA said, "Every day we will be on the road." You didn't do it today, today I think you're showing us your real self. But when you pretend to be a united and social democrat, there will always be one of your Members, such as Mr Bored, who will explain what you really think. He wrote Mr. Bored that all crimes - listen to this, it is interesting - people have handled them from the centre. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA in the previous elections, the people gave you 32%. He took you to the headquarters of Officer Response to serve a critical mission, the one of Officer Response. You, however, insult this 32%, returning quickly, completely to 3% of your dna. It is your right to do so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's your right. What is not your right to do is go back to society in split times, the ones who lived them, paid them, exceeded them. 'Or we end them or we end them.' I heard SYRIZA officials claim that you never said that. You've said it a dozen times. So if we still manage to get a profit from today's debate it would be an explicit and clear position of yours, Mr Tsipras, that your motto 'or we finish them or end us' in 2021, you leave it behind. That's all I have to do personally. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would like to end, Mr President, by looking for her identity, looking ahead and addressing our young people. For in the face of them as a representative of power and I apologize and explain myself. It is my personal commitment to making the person of the state more friendly and more effective our governance. But I also ask for their help. I don't move the finger. I open, we're all opening our ears to hear you. Especially young people today must not be submissive, they must be suspicious. It is important to know that a post on the Internet does not always constitute absolute truth. It is important to explain to our young people that the social media and algorithms of large platforms that they actually use reproduce and reward any views they may already have. They create watertight, intensified, not impermeable dialogue. In fact, where stereotypes on the one hand and that is bad for our democracy are fed up, it is bad for the level of our dialogue, because young people are thus trapped in their views without developing their critical thoughts, without questioning what they see, what anyone can - in quotes -'serving them'. And within time the new generation is besieged by myths and by echoing real events. It's natural, I always understand it happens, the state's present weaknesses of stirring it up. Almond! Alas, if we were to ask young people to resign from the question. Almond! Every society, which wants to go ahead, must seek this question. And I finally think that through this dispute we will meet with the new generation. It does not work with dogmas, nor with ready solutions, nor with immovable certainty. But violence, I firmly believe, does not fit this generation. I have one word to tell the young children today. Divide finally means urination. Don't fire the road. If you want to set fire on your mind and raise your fist, but also your minds to question with critical thought what you don't like. Ladies and gentlemen, at the most critical moment in the pandemic, we must not let its consequences contaminate the social fabric. We cannot, Mr. Tsipras, at this juncture, hear charges of return in the 1950s. At that time, our democracy was incomplete, the country was hurt by the civil war. Those who speak in terms of that time are referring to our fathers, grandparents and grandparents. I insist on talking about acts and responsibilities that have taken place over your own days. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] How it is possible today to come and talk about a time when much of the political, social fabric did not have political rights, for a time when women did not vote against and to compare this democratically elected government of 2021 with what happened in our country in '50s and then! Are you accusing us, Mr. Tsipras, of returning to civil war stereotypes? Are we returning to homosexual stereotypes? We have solved, Mr Tsipras, our differences with history for a long time. This party legalised the Communist Party in 1974. Paul Bakoyannis was the protagonist of the national symphony in 1989, when in this position Charilaos Florakis and Kyrkos applauded the position of Constantine Mitsotakis after the murder of Paul Bakoyannis. When the "AGE" of another era said that we cannot hide behind neo-uranism and denounced without astronauts and without spins of terrorism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why are you going back? Why are you going back over and over your historic payment? It is not possible, therefore, in the name of demagogicism to change the meaning of words, not only because this is how dialogue is abolished and cheap populism prevails, but because through the ease of impression the way for something much worse can really be opened. For a coronary dictatorship, moreover, the far-right AFD in Germany is calling for protests. And always the margin seeks oxygen at the core of political life. So we all have a debt of this oxygen not to give it to him. When he walks a party of the Greek Parliament next to the "Ruvicona", next to the balls, next to the hooligans, feed this tension. And when you keep talking about "democracy in quarantine", then you turn the road to self-indicated guardians of the anarchy to control traffic and the inhabitants of the Painter. Is it time, then, to agree on what democracy we really want? Because for us every arbitrary policeman is an opportunity for more democratisation. For some others, as I have seen today, this is an opportunity for more division. For us, it is an invitation to strengthen the institutions and I have presented to you today a number of institutional interventions on how we can deal with this problem. For others, it is the reason of weakening social ties. Such incidents cannot and must not be used as an alibi for extensive incidents, nor, of course, can they be equated with the unequivocal argument that violence gives rise to violence. No, Mr. Tsipras! Violence doesn't give rise to violence. Only the violent reason is finally giving birth to the violent act. Violence alone gives rise to nothing. It's just chaos! And after the tragic events of New Smyrna, I recalled that in the elections on 7 July 2019 I received an order. The mandate was to guarantee the unity, security and well-being of all Greeks. I am also faithful in this task, considering normality and security as a condition of democracy, but also of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u27	Please don't record anything on the holidays! Continue, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u28	I repeat, on this mission I will remain consistent. Solarity is a condition for democracy, it is a prerequisite for justice. The strongest can always be protected, the weakest are the ones in need of the state shield. I will not allow us to relive phenomena of the legal order, such as the ones we experienced in 2008 and 2011. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I will not allow it, not because it is my view, but because that is what the vast majority of Greek society wants! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, Mr Tsipras - and I am ending with this - the state is finally in charge of all organised societies. Otherwise there is the jungle, constant fear and danger of violent death, as Thomas Hobbs wrote in "Leviathan". Such a road cannot and cannot be opened in Greece of the 21st century. In hostilities, half and blood, the only answer can be unity. The one that is built on the borders of freedom and justice. And that's why in the motto "Birming violence" my answer is another. Our motto is another: 'Convergence gives rise to dialogue and dialogue gives rise to progress'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u29	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is called at the Stepma for his denology. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Mitsotakis, you spoke fifty-nine minutes but one minute and I have the feeling that all of you who attended you have perhaps attended the most awkward and incoherent speech you have made here in this Step. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have spent twenty-two minutes - probably and outside of the text, some of your text, nonetheless - just to say once again what wonderfully your Government is and what amazingly you have done with the pandemic. Really, these communists who are watching you, aren't they telling you that you can't get that far from the feeling of the average citizen? You spent twenty-two minutes telling us that it is a great success that we have the seven thousand dead, because in other countries they have more dead. Are you not aware that this argument today is an argument that cannot be evoked by this Step here, because such macabre comparisons are inconsistent? What you need to understand right now is that we are the only country in the European Union that we have been in lockdown for five months. And this bores the heart and soul of the average Greek citizen. And you need to understand that we are right now, again and again, with our hospitals in red, because you have not taken care of a year now to decisively strengthen the National Health System and you are still hiding behind numbers. You are constantly talking about a thousand double beds in intensive treatment units, when in fact at times of crisis and pandemic from 7 July to March last year you did not make a single bed. You've built two hundred fifty beds, but at the moment we're talking, there's a hundred civilians intubated with clips, not in intensive care units, but on the EAW lists. Last night was a hundred. So where is he? And if we're going to have deaths right now that could have been avoided, that's the crucial issue. This is our great anxiety. You also celebrated because we have 8.2% recession. That's a lot of bleed and that. You told us that we were on the European Union's average, while we are third from the bottom. You are not the worst, you are third from the bottom with an average of 6.6 in the European Union. Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u31	Bring it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u32	I'll get it for you. Are you questioning that we are third worst in the Eurozone in recession with 8.2%? I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Mitsotakis, leave the games with the numbers, because you were up on this Step to show us your ignorance even on historical issues once again. Who gave you this wire to tell me that Zola with the "Guide" hit hypocrisy? I don't know if where you were studying, you didn't know exactly what Zola was doing and what the "Crug" was, the state actors who directed an innocent man's conviction, Dreyfus, was Zola's "Go accuse"! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At Columbia, didn't you learn that? "I blame" was the supreme reason for justice, not for hypocrisy. And if Zola were to live today, he might have the same fate as the French State and French justice. You'd sue him and convict him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u33	This is philosophical, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u34	It's a little philosophical when the Prime Minister shows such ignorance over historically recorded works. It's philosophical. You're a great one, too. You came up to this, the Stepma, and your speech was a speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u35	Excellent!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u36	Excellent, yeah. It was an excellent sample of a Prime Minister who wants to split. You've been up here for another time to split. And you've come up with this step with arguments of a flat group of truth. I'll answer one by one. But I will start by saying that the only worthwhile moment of the sixty-minute presence here at the Stepma was the time when you wrote an apology in your text. But at the moment you degenerate her. And yet, at this moment with the attitude of the body, the smile and the demeaning reference to the events of the previous government, you deceived it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why, Mr. Mitsotakis? Why can't you ask for an apology, an apology as a human, not for what happened in 2012, in 2014, in 2016, in 2017, for which I will apologize, but ask for an apology for what happened in Nea Smyrna on Sunday and for what is happening all these months, the phenomena of police arbitrary phenomena, from the case of India until today, where the Citizens' Counselor has recorded an increase in complaints on your days by 75%, Mr Mitsotakis. That is why you have come here today to make an intervention in the work of the Independent Authority and without consulting him. Did you have any understanding with him? Did you talk to the Citizen's Counselor? It's a one-faced principle. You're here to announce that you're going to put his assistant in? Isn't the Citizen's Counsel doing you a favor? What other government did that? Why is it bothering you that the complaints on your day have increased by 75%? So you have asked for a half apologies today, which, if you had asked for it all on Sunday afternoon - Mr Chrysochidis at least not you - I told you before, we would have avoided this tension on Tuesday. So I come to the essence of your arguments. You came by showing photos, even of incidents of tension during our governance period, and you told us about left repression. That is what you said about it. Mr. Mitsotakis, finally decide why you're going to blame us. You requested this Chamber while I was a Prime Minister twice a day's debate and once a question to the Prime Minister on security matters. You know what you were saying? I read you to remember what you said: "When will you finally solve the hands of the police so that she can do her job?" [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] "Finally tell us, Mr. Tsipras, are you Prime Minister or a provocator and when will you look?" "Shoot the hands of the police," you told us. So what is your argument that we had the hands of the police tied up, or that we were applying a police state and a left suppression? When did you tell the truth and when did you lie? I'm tabling this in the Minutes, too. It's your speech. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned speech, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] But on a lasting basis, Mr Mitsotakis, you want to work and you want to exploit the feeling of the average citizen, which is an insecurity feeling for too many reasons, whether these reasons are about increasing crime or these reasons are about social tension, about the economic crisis. And you are constantly trying to confuse your political opponents to make the feeling that your political opponents do not want the security of citizens. But answer us when were you telling the truth and when were you lying? You asked us what we were doing in the years we were ruling at the Greek Police. First you want me to remind you what we received? Do you want me to remind you that for a very long period of time, you couldn't guarantee, at the time, the proper functioning of the daily life of the citizens in the center of Athens, nor the parades of the military and we came and went out the bars and were normally parades with the citizens? And the storekeepers in the center of Athens made four years to see episodes and saw them when you petted the Chryssayites and the far right to want to enter the House for the Prespecies Agreement? Isn't that the reality? You know, even in the most democratic government and in the most effective government no police will be perfect and there will always be prosperous police officers who will violate their vows. The question is, however, what institutional initiatives the government is taking and what is the way in which it responds to these incidents. Is it encouraging or condemning them or is it cutting them off, or is it going to investigate them? We have made important institutional contributions. We introduced the Citizens' Counselor as a national mechanism for investigating arbitrary situations in the Security Body. We proceeded by law to unify the Internal Affairs Service in all the Security Colleges. We abolished the obligation of internal school at the Schools of Officials of the ELAS and introduced the introduction to all bodies and the Fire Academy through the incompetent institution of the pan-Hellenic examinations. And as soon as you came, you returned to the same logic and logic of the client state, i.e. the recruitment of special guards outside the AACC, but also to something that eventually proves dangerous, because we were the ones that really broke up the DELTA group, you re-established it as a "DRAG". And I wonder if what you have finally done with awareness of the dangers and consequences, young children who come without education and enter without a pan-Hellenic examination and do not know the basics about how they will behave against the crowd and do not know the basics of the rule of law and the laws of a rule of law, young children who are fantasizing. How are these kids gonna behave? So you ask us what we have done for these days and I will tell you that we also had an incident of police arbitrariness, which angered us all, the death of a fellow citizen of ours from beatings. I'm talking about Zach Kostopoulos. But what did we do then? An adjudicated administrative examination has been ordered immediately by Olga Gerovasili to serve as an adjunct to the Ministry of Finance of Olga Gerovasili, which is immediately completed. They were made available to those who were involved and the originally ordered preliminary examination was immediately upgraded to a juror of command after the forensic finding that dispelled any doubt about the causes of death. The SAD was completed within a month and despite the service changes that forced the conductor of the SAD to change three times, this finding was already delivered in December 2018. By the end of the disciplinary procedure, the police involved had not only been made available from the beginning, but had been withdrawn from the active agency. According to the conclusion of the ETUC, disciplinary proceedings were proposed and, in particular, heavier penalties. The Citizens’ Ombudsman, as part of his duties as an independent national arbitrariness investigation mechanism, had sealed that the relevant SAD was conducted both within the intended time and within the relevant procedures. What's happened today, two years later, three years later? No disciplinary sentence seems to exist, no disciplinary sentence has been imposed by the Greek Police. The reason? Amongst other things, due to the obstruction of the advocate for the defence of the persecuted, Mr. Ploris. That's the truth! It's a cryptic incident. Why don't you move on? It's ours, I'm telling you, and we've had issues nowadays. What about the sworn administrative examination that you were going to carry out and committed, Mr Chrysochide, that within a few months there will be results in relation to Chios, with the beating of civilians, with the violence on cars of residents? What did you do about it? You made the Alibizatou Commission to investigate our cases only. No case has been given to the committee for as long as the committee had its term of office. As long as there was no case in life, you did not give your own governance. And so we said that you did well and formed this committee. Let's see what this committee said to you. You have tabled the conclusion in the Minutes, Mr Mitsotakis, of the Alivizatos Commission - if I am not mistaken - 4 May 2020. Rapidly he filed a finding because he could not - and announced it - take responsibility after the Indane case for an unacceptable, arrogant attitude of the Greek Police that loaded responsibility to an innocent, to dismiss its own responsibilities, to a man who is neither "bahalo" nor lawless. A family leader, a housekeeper, is one of those who are voting for you, Mr Mitsotakis, because you have addressed them to win the election and we are addressing them. So what did you do? He gave the suggestions and I tell you the first two of the basics. After the finding discerns impunity, since the finding distinguishes a number of problems that need to be solved, it proposes, firstly, that the responsibility of the parties involved in cases of atomic violence should be individualised, so that the immediate reintroduction of individual distinctive elements into the police uniforms and, secondly, - the first two will tell you - cameras - says - of cameras - where? - within police vehicles, the detention centres and the offices of the safety annexes, where interrogative actions are carried out. What do you answer today and what did you say to Mr. Alivizatos of the committee the other day with a post-date date, of course, one year later, after Mr. Chrysochoidis wrote him in his old shoes? You replied that on the issue of discretion in uniforms there is the 22-12-2019-22 December 2019-Adjudgment of the Chief Staff. What do you think, really? And why don't they keep on the uniforms, since there's the order since 22 December 2019 and you're writing it already? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How do you allow them to attempt while there is the order? So they're ignoring the order? Will you take a sworn administrative examination to see how many, who are and why? And they're hundreds, they're thousands of people ignoring this order. You have them dressed as 'Roboko', in order to fear citizens. But it's not about people being scared. The policeman must not make fear for the citizen, he must make security for the citizen. And obviously, these uniforms have no top secrets. As far as the second one is concerned, you have responded instead. You told us you were putting cameras on the road. And you replied to that in the reply to the Alivizato conclusion. You told us that you had gone ahead in receiving and recording sound or image in public spaces. But he didn't ask you for this finding. He spoke specifically about internal police vehicles, where there are abuse complaints - where no one sees who scoops who on the wood - and, of course, about interrogation offices and detention centres, where there are a number of cases all of a sudden! - it was recorded in the reports by the Greek Police that the defendant had spontaneously confessed. How spontaneously? That is what the Alivizatou Commission has said to you, and I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And instead, you have the courage to come here today and instead of answering me on the substance, you make me a spirit for the views of Alibizatou, what he wrote in his article. But I do not invoke Mr Alivizatos, because I agree with him - one reason above, it is well known that it is not SYRIZA - but you are working for all, even honourable academics who are close to your own views and in this way you underestimate them and in this way, of course, you are degenerating any democratic dialogue. You have reached the point where you can tell us that you do not agree with the evidence that violence is provoking violence and what you told us? That dialogue provokes dialogue, that is, dialogue between MS and the DAS Group will be held in dialogue tomorrow? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All you didn't tell us in this incoherent speech you had at primary level was that the wood came out of heaven. That's not all you told us! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We've been told by Mr. Vorides, though. And of course, you have a special allergy to social reaction and social protest, but you must know that it is the core of our democratic function. It says in our Constitution, citizens in a democracy do not only vote every four years. They're not only invited by polls to tell their opinion. Citizens have the right and obligation under the law to manifest their discontent in a peaceful manner, an article of the Constitution. You have reached the ultimate propaganda for too long to want to lay the blame for the pandemic's course in the protests and the SYRIZA who does not condemn them. The ultimate ferociousness, of course, was the poaching you made in my own interview, which you repeated here today, when I was asked by a journalist if I accept that there is a risk and I said that I accept that there is a risk. I didn't say I was taking any chances. But, Mr Mitsotakis, this shows the poverty of your arguments, but today I will tell you that you have criminal responsibilities for the course of the pandemic and it is funny for the citizens who are watching us want to convince the Greek society. Even your most fanatical voters are not convinced that we are to blame for the course of the pandemic, for the fact that we have been in the hardest lockdown for five months, for the fact that four months are closed the focus and the shops have delivered the keys to Mr Georgiadis, who, of course, said nothing different than what you said today, that you have done extremely and that they are excessive, as you said, and that you have given so many millions of support and that these 'ungrateful' people do not see these millions, which are not 'hardres', are essential support, while you have them for four months now closed. We are the only country in Europe that has been closed up for so many months because you do not go to substantial measures to avoid collapsing where there is over-transmission. So we never said we were taking the risk. We said we accept that there is a risk. But you personally take the risk for so many months on public transport, which, until yesterday, you said it would not fit. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But yesterday, you suddenly proceeded to an invitation to bring machinery - commissions are doing everywhere, what kind of a contest? - to clean up the atmosphere in the buses. For canceling our own competition, which was ready to buy new buses before the pandemic and for two years you haven't made any tender documents you have no responsibility. No responsibility exists for Mr. Karamanlis at the Transport Ministry, and you, Mr. Mitsotakis, do that. You take the risk. Because you have been taking the risk for over a year in the workplace of no control. There are the outbreaks of transmissibility. You take the risk for a year not to prescribe the tests and when someone who does not have the financial capacity and has an unwelling does not go to see if he has the virus. You have taken the risk for so many months not to overthrow the private hospitals and keep them COVID - free private hospitals, not to mention their clientele! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You reached the point yesterday, too, on the conditions for the transport of patients. You opened two small clinics for COVID after a whole year, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u37	He needed this, man.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u38	Mr Gerapititi, my "people" elsewhere, not me. This is where you speak with respect to me. You are not even elected by the vote of the Greek people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are elected first by the vote of the Greek people, and then you speak to me like this, not to me personally, to the Chief of Police, which is an institution, as far as I know. What are you asking here for patients with COVID who will go to private hospitals, the minimums, the two young ones you opened up? Good level of consciousness, otherwise they don't. To be inappropriate, otherwise they won't be taken. Be armodynamicly stable, without the use of vasodilators or inotropics, or they don't take them. To have satisfactory oxygenation, or not to be taken. They have chest X-rays, or they don't get them. Only the drugs from the house to take together don't ask them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All of this, so as not to burden the clinicians and you have the courage to say that the citizens' protests are responsible for the course of the pandemic! I'm making a document on this. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] However, I will justify one thing: the course of this pandemic was for all of us something that was unprecedented and unexplored. Therefore, there may have been cases where we did not have the empirical approach, we did not have the experience to know what is happening and what is not happening. So when the great gathering took place at the Court of Appeal for the Golden Dawn - a historic moment for the Republic - and it had twenty thousand people - and indeed, because I was there, the world was suffocating - then everyone was worried and came out and said that "there will be new cases" on October 9, 2020. Mr Kikilias also came out and said that "there will be new cases" on October 9, 2020. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Where did the new cases come from on 29 October? Attica? In Athens, where did these protesters come from, or in Thessaloniki, who had not made any protest then and let the world smuggle on the beach and conspire to cafeterias and churches? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now you'll tell me I'm overreacting. Maybe, but it's not me. It is said by Mrs. Gaga, an excellent scientist, who was President of the Central Board of Health, Director of the 7th Pulmonary Clinical Clinic of the "Salvation" Hospital and candidate for your state vote in the last elections. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Speaking on 11 January in SKAI's TV, he said: "When during the trial of the Golden Dawn many thousands of people had gathered, scientists had been terrified. However, the cases did not increase because of the concentration of thousands of people, as they were outdoors and wore masks." [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mrs Linou also said, of course, there is a question. Specifically he said that "the one I want to point out is that the risk depends on both the space and the conditions and the duration. Therefore, a demonstration in an open space that lasts an hour is not as dangerous as an hour on the bus, where there are no effective protection measures, at least at the level of ventilation and distances.’ [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We don't talk about that, the scientists say it. You come with this propaganda infertility. Why? Because it will ruin your account that you've done everything perfectly. Mr. Georgiadis arrived at the point where he told the owners of the focus stores that have given him the keys - they are the boxes of the keys, you will not know where to put these keys in Maximos, you have to fill a basement full - that "quest Tsipras when we will open, it is not our fault, but Tsipras who organizes demonstrations". These arguments, Mr Mitsotakis, are very cheap. First of all, no one exploited them. Even Trump, I think, did not take advantage of such cheap arguments in the United States against this big movement, embraced by John Biden and the Democrats, in the “I can't breakfast”. Now it's 'color' here, it's not 'I can't breathe', but here it's a similar movement. The Democrats embraced it. He didn't tell them they were terrorists, he didn't tell them they were to blame for the coronary. You say it, though. You're talking about You started as an aspiring Greek "Macron" and you've become Greek "Sarcozy" and put it. I'm not talking about corruption. This is another 'cape'. I am referring to authoritarianism, repression, the logic of working on the security of citizens, and of course also to the way in which you are slandering your political opponents on every occasion. Mr. Mitsotakis, this is not the first time you've done this. You went up to this step once again in order to split up, with the aim of classifying a party that not only ruled the country for four and a half years, not only took 32% of the Greek people in the last elections, who lost, but a party that has a very long story. And you should at least respect that story. Not me, I represent her. Someone else will represent her at some point. That's how it's done. But you have come here with a battling speech against the democratic and progressive party of the country, which has deep roots and history. I want to tell you that this has to stop sometime. Because this party has struggles for freedom, for democracy, with the face open, Mr Mitsotakis, not with hoods. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It was this party that gave birth to fighters who in the block of Red and Cesarean had an open face. They didn't wear hoods when they gave their blood for freedom. This party is the party of the ENPON militants, is the party of Manolis Glezou and Lakis Santa, who lowered the flag of Nazis from the Acropolis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is the Labraki, Petroula, Komi, Kanellopoulou, Nikos Temponera. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We know very well what violence means and who the victims of violence were. I want, right from the outset, to say that I respect the Bakoyannis family, Ms. Bakoyannis, even when we are wrongly criticised. But this must be stopped, Mr Mitsotakis, by you, who are responsible, you are Prime Minister. Unjust criticism must be stopped by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u39	What exactly will it stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u40	I will tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, what exactly to stop. Stop identifying all those who have an agony for the rule of law and democratic rights, all those who do not want to become a hero of a terrorist killer, dying of a hunger strike in a prison, with all the dangers that this may have for the miserable, vile radicalisation of the part of Greek youth. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And to understand that we have said nothing more than what your Members have said. Mr. Javarras said: "It is unthinkable that we have a dead hunger strike in our country. The Government must take all the necessary steps to ensure that it does not end up.' What more did we say? Why do you keep working on it? And in any case, this is not the first time you have done it. You have a long story, as a party, on it. I remind you what the papers you wrote in 1988-1989. "The PASOK hit the murder of Bakoyannis", "In PASOK the shooter", "Everyone shows PASOK", "Friends of Laliotis the terrorists". [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That's your tradition. You want to sow, slander your political opponents, work on a case of terrorism that has condemned the entire Greek people and democratic forces in the country. Then it was PASOK. Now it's SYRIZA. "The wolf hair is changing, but hoe does not change!" [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I do not allow you, Mr. Mitsotakis, to continue this! I won't allow you. Respect the struggles of this party! Respect our views. Respect the fact that the country can no longer return to a time of hatred and division. I now come to questions relating to our proposals. I shall try, Mr President, to be brief. Mr. Mitsotakis, I have great respect for the people of Greek Police, who a state has thrown them a responsibility disproportionate to their duties and duties. A state that has failed to manage the pandemic and the economy now throws the ball in the police to cut off fines on citizens. It is the same state that had chosen to establish this House of untrained and completely inappropriate police officers. The first thing, therefore, Mr Mitsotakis, you must do is decide that the group 'DRAG' is dangerous and cannot go on like this. This group that takes charge of neighborhoods, terrorizes and beats people, attacks journalists, doesn't protect public order. It is a public risk, and that is why we are asking you to abolish it. We pledge that it will be abolished, as we abolished it, before reconstituting it under another name. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are also asking you to go ahead with a proposal which I know you will reject, but it is worth tabling, because that is where the substance, if you like, seems to be, of whether we want to go over yesterday and take a step further. My proposal is about the choice of the leadership of the Greek Police. Mr. Mitsotakis, I was four and a half years Prime Minister and the first four of them I had Chief of Police from the hierarchy, regardless of his political or party preference. And not only have I kept Mr. Tsubala... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Well, I'll tell you when you get up. You're a little upset, I see. I tell you that four out of four and a half years I have held Chief of Police - and indeed Mr Tsubala has given us the opportunity, at the highest price, for an officer to do over a year of his anticipated work - who later proved himself to be working for you. But that's another case. And when he screwed up in Matty, we cut him off, and then you made him Secretary General of the Public Order. But I do not want to talk about this. I would like to tell you that, in my view, if we want a Greek police that operates outside and beyond the party enclosures, we have to agree here as well on how to choose. Not in the faces, but in the way of choice. I therefore suggest that we agree to the setting-up of a intergroup parliamentary committee which will choose the leadership of the Greek Police every time with merital and non-party criteria at a time. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Are you willing to consent to this or will you continue with the logic 'ours' and 'yours'? We also believe that we have to agree that the way in which the recruitment to the Greek Police should be one and only, through pan-Hellenic examinations, as well as the trade union movement of the Greek Police requires, not with the recruitment of doubtful dignity to the pile. And, of course, we have to agree that the university education of police officers should be upgraded and that we move on to the operation and creation of another picture for the police officer, who is a citizen in uniform and inspires security for the citizen, not against the citizen, to inspire him horror. Special guards should be retrained because they have incomplete knowledge and education and be classified into active services of the Greek Police, where they are next to the citizen and they provide support. And there are many of these cases. I do not want to mention just negative incidents today. We've all seen for the past few days how a policeman saved a man's life with artificial respiration. Yes, the policeman, when he's next to the citizen, is useful, but not when he's across from the citizen, he's raped against him, he's successful in this way. Did you see the videos of the clashes in New Smyrna? Are you proud of these tents, of these altars? I am not proud and no Greek citizen can be proud of all this. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with something that I consider to be an obligation. I received a personal letter yesterday from the father of the child who lost his life. I can't tell if he lost his life because of the bloodshed he suffered. He lost his life a month later. But I have to say that it is the state's duty to investigate this. I received a letter, then, from the Magog's father, who lost his life a month later, after being brutally abused to Volos. He writes to me: "I want in tomorrow's debate in the House on police violence, to beg you warmly in the effort and in the struggle before us to justify the memory of our child, to mention his case. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] On 13 June 2020, the happy father writes to me - "target and consciously, he was ruthlessly beaten, without being a threat. He was injured, tortured, and in the end, again consciously, he was thrown away by policemen on the street, outside the Police Directorate of Magnesia, half-deceased and helpless, without finding anything against him and without being charged with him." This fact is explorable, but I carry what the father says - 'it was the indirect cause that led our child to death. This is a huge criminal act by the state and especially the Ministry, which is committed to protecting the citizen. And for whatever action, despite Mr Chrysochide's commitment, so far, I and my family have not had any information about the finding of the Continental Administrative Review." Mr. Mitsotakis, there are dozens of cases of police arbitrariness. We have 75% increase in cases, complaints to the Citizens' Counselor on your days. Illegality when a regime becomes a status, then arbitraryness becomes a rule. You must therefore give all of this an answer, not to SYRIZA, not to me, not to the parties in opposition. To the citizens who are watching us today, you must give an answer. I know that when a government resorts to authoritarianism, it is either panic or is in the last stage. You know what, Mr. Mitsotakis? In recent times and by lack of empathy, both from arrogance and from authoritarianism and from your ultimate attempt to control information, you are giving such examples of systemic logic. You said to us: 'You will tell us again that the media is paid.' I don't know if they're paid or not paid. But I know, Mr Mitsotakis, that you have given 20 million without merit, public advertising, in the first wave of the coronary, 18 million without criteria in the second wave of the coronary, that you have given 18 million more in the channels not to pay the annual instalment, as foreseen by the competition. And now you are giving another 3 million - once again by entrustment - to advertise the vote of the fellow citizens - where - to a company which had part of your election campaign, when it was a commitment of the previous Minister, Mr Theodorikos - and to me personally - that he will not raise the sensitive issue of the "lista Petsa". You ripped off Theodorikos and put Pecha in. On what criteria of 3 million? Who controls these things? Is that a democratic concept? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's a state-of-the-art concept. You want to check the information, you want to slander your political opponents and you want to set up a climate and state of fear and terrorism. We ask you to stop this state-of-the-art concept. The regimes, you know, usually fall. Don't be afraid, we won't fire you no matter how much you overestimate us. Democracy will shoot you, the democratic struggles of our people. Democracy has deep roots in this place! And yes! And the dreams of the new generation will shoot you, no matter how much you're trying to suit them, you've lost this train. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The dreams of the new generation have long been - and will become even more - your nightmare, Mr Mitsotakis, if you continue to rule by authoritarianism, oppression, in an anti-democratic way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u41	The debate on the topical and urgent subjects of major importance will be concluded by the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u42	I saw you unusually destabilized, Mr. Tsipras, in your dentistry. Even the American president, you called him John when he's called Joe. But I can understand why you are still going on while you were given the opportunity to lower the tone, invest in tension, polarization and false division. I end up thinking it's the only thing you know and you can do well. It is a strategy that you have consistently served in the past. It's the same strategy that brought you to power. Your political curriculum began writing and strengthening in the squares of the indignant, whom you used to feed blind anger, the most negative feelings in Greek society, to come and ride a stream of indignation, anger - to some extent justified - by offering false solutions, which have been misguided in the process. But I will tell you again, once again, that the Greek society has matured, the Greek society has realised both its own responsibilities and the responsibilities of the political groups. And in 2021 if you think you can re-establish such a tent of social tension, you are deeply mistaken, not because you anticipate the government's reaction, but because there is quite simply no social majority to follow you on this road. And the youth you constantly invoke is not a youth that today listens to that reason that you are articulating. She's a youth deeply concerned, but also mature, she's a youth angry, because her pandemic's been wasted a year of freedom, she's a youth who, when she's giving a full-time exam, the child and she's going to go to college, she doesn't want to go to a university that's occupied by bullshit. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He wants to find a university with high-quality teachers, with good infrastructure, which offers children the education they have worked for so long. However, the fact that you are out of season and out of climate is something that only concerns you concerns your party. I'm coming back to the matter of pandemic. The more you still claim that Greece has failed to manage the pandemic, the more I will respond to the real elements that Greek citizens know today. You insist on talking about pandemic as if it were a Greek peculiarity. You are talking about thousands of deaths, disregarding the fact that the planet has been facing the biggest health crisis in the past 100 years. And you are overlooking once again the fact that this country, which has had a weak health system, has succeeded and achieved, to a greater extent than many other countries have achieved it, a minimum degree of social consensus, difficult and tough measures, so that we can limit human losses as far as possible. As long as you claim that Greece has failed to manage the pandemic crisis so much I will come here and tell you: You are a liar. Once again you're a liar. And you know you're lying already. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because the only reason you do this is to invest in indignation, anger, anger, and feelings that this crisis inevitably causes. That's what you're doing. And you do, I'd say, unrefractoryly, you do it without even hiding your real intentions. You are talking about the issues of the steps and demonstrations. I have submitted scientifically substantiated studies demonstrating the obvious. They show, in other words, that, when there is repeated co-concentration, especially in places where personal hygiene measures are not complied with, this leads to increased transmissibility. And when that happens in circumstances where the pandemic is inexhaustible, as it is now, in the last month, this is double, threefold, fivefold dangerous. You may not know, you cannot see this thing, you cannot recognize it! So I ask you to tell me - you will not do so now, because you do not have the opportunity to respond - to the dilemma 'protection of human life or an active urge to participate in demonstrations' how, at last, you place them. Do you not understand that what you are doing is dangerous, does it go back to our ability to open up the Greek economy and the Greek society? And in any case, when every time you attack the government for any initiative and cancel with such ease, I repeat: Are you bad in the government doing so? Solve for the vaccination certificate. You solved from the first moment you proposed as an idea. And what you haven't said as a party. And I ask you: if we achieve the vaccination certificate, the government will benefit or the hotelier from Rhodes - who I see here - or from Crete, why will more visitors come to Greece? Is it good for the country, or is it bad for the country? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] How many bumps do you finally have in your attempt to politically deceive the government? The government will be judged at the end of the four-year period. It will be judged by the Greek people. Whatever you say, whatever you say, no matter what you do, no matter how much you want to present it as catastrophic, authoritarian, citizens know and will be placed, they will decide at the end of the four-year period whether we have done our job well or if we have not done our job well. But the poison that you are now aware of in Greek society is politically and morally - I dare say - unauthorised, when you know the great effort we have to make and when you know how difficult things will be and the next day, so that we can recover from this economic crisis which hit all the countries of the world and all the countries of Europe. I now come to the issues concerning the Albizatou Commission and the proposals put forward on the issue of police violence. I'll repeat to you once again, because we haven't informed you of your partners. The Citizens' Counsel in 2017-18 had produced the exhibition “National Mechanism for Succession Investigation”. Have you read it? Do you know her? You know her. It has a series of suggestions on page 18. I won't read them in detail. I talked about these in my prototype. These proposals were implemented by the New Democracy Government, not your own government. That's for granted. He's not in doubt. Citizens' attorney says so himself. You told us before why we're setting up a Citizen's Counselor, as if you didn't know. Don't you know there's already a lawyer assistant? Didn't any of your partners tell you? You don't know that? You don't even know that? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, he says, we're taking it to an assistant and not to the Counselor. But you don't know that there are assistants? So you come and tell me that with the citizen's assistant attorney, who deals with the rights of the child, we underestimate the rights of the child, because we have assigned them to the counselor's assistant. But are these serious things? Can they be heard by a former Prime Minister, Chief of Police?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u43	What are you going to do, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u44	We're strengthening the Counsel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u45	There's rights assistant, Prime Minister, according to law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Voutsi, let them go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u47	Is the lawyer in line with what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u48	The lawyer is absolutely in agreement with what we are doing. The defense attorney agrees to any reinforcement of his ability to allow him... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ask him. Get the Counselor to see if the Counselor refuses the fact that we're coming to give him ten more staff to investigate incidents of police violence. If you think the Counsel has another view, we can get him to say his opinion. What the Counsel will tell you - because it has written it - is that it will recognise that New Democracy's legislative intervention has enabled the Counsel to have inquiries and staff so that it can investigate cases such as the real tragic case you have referred to. And I can tell you, I appreciate the information that I had from the Minister that very soon there will be final decisions on this case, as the incident has been investigated by an Authority, which is independent and which would not in fact have been given the opportunity to launch any cover. You mentioned - and I can't leave it to the Chief of Police and that the Chief should not be chosen by party criteria. The Chief of Police on your own day, the successor of Mr. Tsouvala, was present at your party gatherings along with the Chief of the Port. And are you talking about independence? But you don't even respect the pretexts. You didn't even observe the pretexts. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And memorable was your reference to the need to investigate incidents. And indeed, the incident of Zak Kostopoulos was an incident that shaken everyone. Did you show the sensitivity to the retireds you beat up and sprayed them with MATs outside the Maximos Mansion? Did you look into this incident, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u49	That's never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u50	The reference to the issues of law and order, when we were opposition, was very clear. The implementation of the law and order and the security of citizens was a central pre-election commitment of the New Democracy. It is not something that we have hidden, nor have we reason to be apologetic about. And if one looks at the statistics on the reduction of crime in Greece and how many of our fellow citizens in many neighbourhoods today feel safer about how - yes, Mr Tsipras - we solved the question of Exarchates, which you never dared to touch, you will find that in this commitment we are consistent. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is completely different from what I'm accusing you of, using... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Did you say anything, Mr. Spirtzi? Did you, Mr. Ragossi, say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u51	You made New Smyrna Exarchia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u52	Oh, indeed, they made New Smyrna Exarchia. Yes, sir. It's backwards. The Bollocks of the Excellencies went to New Smyrna, with which you're partying protests. That's what happened! And you don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u53	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u54	Now, will you calm down? He spoke forty minutes your Chief and didn't hear kich from there. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u55	What I accused you of, Mr. Tsipras, is that you used the police and the MATs to consciously protect your image. And I don't think that's something that's questioned. Because I remember very well how you were then moving in Greece, with how great you were making sure that no protests reach within visual contact from any of your events. From that point on, I come to the issue of the difficulties of terrorism. I'll just say a word. Because some of us have experienced very intensely this hard times, all the hard times and especially the events of 1989, and since much had actually been said about the intensity of the moment, I can only remind you, Mr Tsipras, that the one who wrote books and said who is the ideological guide of 17 November was Panos Kammenos, with whom you have risen together for four and a half years!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u56	And...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u57	That's what your moral ball is all about. This shows the bar of the expectations and the conditions you yourself set for the way you saw your political partners at the time. And let me say one more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u58	And your father used to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u59	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u60	Never. Never a New Democracy executive, never the ones we've experienced...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u61	What was the camouflage?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u62	It never sounded from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u63	And you know that, as it has never been heard and will never be heard of any implied, Mr. Tsipras - now you expect to hear it - that SYRIZA has anything to do with terrorism. But what I can tell you is that you've never answered the real facts. And the real facts were that one of the first piece of legislation you brought, when you became government, was facilitating requests from terrorists in March 2015!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u64	When did Christoulos Xeros go out empty and never come back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u65	You guys gave up the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u66	You're wrong with what you're saying. Your days have done this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u67	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u68	Don't get upset...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Barkas, you've been here very vibrant today. The President of your party is present. He can defend your party himself. You don't need any supporters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u70	And on these issues, the government has made it quite clear. The law is observed and will be observed, it will apply to everyone. No convicted terrorist has the ability to choose the prison of his preference, and the state will do everything in its power, as is the case with the relevant prosecutor orders, to keep Koufontina alive. That is the pure position of the government and me personally. And when you posted it - did you do it once - what exactly did you ask us to do? Ignore? What are we doing? What we're doing. So you agree with what we do. So go out and say it. If you agree with what we are doing, to uphold the rule of law and the decisions of justice and, at the same time, to exhaust all our possibilities to keep this man alive, please go out and make a statement and say: yes, I agree with the government and the policy that has been pursued. If you do, it will perhaps be the most practical proof to those who doubt that you want to take advantage of this to gain political benefits. You still have the option to place yourself. Except you told us backwards in your post. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a reintroduction of a phrase which I said in my prototype. I asked you, Mr Tsipras, to renounce - and you had the opportunity to do it and did not do it once again - the slogan that you first used in Kalamata in September 2015 'or end them or end us'. I asked you to renounce it. You said so. You chose once more not to answer. You have chosen once again to make a historic recurring to the Left of World War II and to emblematic personalities that our space honors as persons who may have been political opponents, but their offer is recognized in this particular political area. My assessment, Mr Tsipras, is that this constant revocation of historical forms of the Left, which were seated on the same benches as what you are now sitting on, does not show respect for the Left. It shows personal insecurity as to the measure of comparison of yours with those of the Left. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What I am accusing you of is that exactly this left-wing tradition, this clear line that has been followed by the Left for many decades, with which we are and remain ideological opponents, you do not serve it. It is enough to find out how to read the 2021 "SYNE" and compare it to what "AGEIA" wrote in 1989. There you will find that in a time when the country needs unity, it needs low tones, you started and we went up to the Step of the House, while you had the opportunity to drop the tones, and eighteen times you used the verb 'category'. So I'm telling you, Mr. Tsipras, I'm not blaming you. I'm just telling you, once again, that you were under the circumstances as Prime Minister and you are under the circumstances as Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Before entering the continuation of today's sitting with our current questions to the ministers, there will be a short break of five, six minutes to aerate the Chamber and prepare the new Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I shall begin by reading the document of the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs of Mr Koutnajis on which timely questions will be discussed. These are the numbers. Questions Nos 516/4-3-2021, 518/4-3-2021, 520/5-3-2021, 534/8-32021 and 540/8-32021 They will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon Panagiotis Lebanese. The numbers. Questions Nos 512/1-32021 and 519/5-3-2021 topical and urgent questions. Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The numbers. Mr Stylianos Petsa, Vice-President of the Commission. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. No. No. 522/6-3-2021 topical question will be answered by the State Secretary to Prime Minister Theodoros Livanios. No. No. Question No 513/2-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr George Zavos. The numbers. 523/7-2021 and 536/8-32021 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. The numbers. Questions Nos 524/8-32021 and 533/8-32021 3441/21-1-2021 and 3697/29-1-2021 questions pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The numbers. Questions Nos 514/3-2021 and 517/3-3021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. No. No. Question No 527/8-32021 and Question No 527/8-32021 Question No 3564/26-1-2021 pursuant to Rule 30(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis. O Secretary-General of Parliament's Legal and Social Affairs Mr Koutnatzis. It is not because of lack of responsibility or because of lack of responsibility. 528/8-32021 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Exclusion of adults from special treatments'. Nor is it debated because of the Member's imprisonment or number. 535/8-32021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The necessary water management projects in the Prefecture of Chania". They are not discussed in consultation with a Member and a Minister or a number of Members. 532/8-32021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Lariza Progressive Alliance Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Fighting the phenomenon of desertification and its consequences" and secondly, by No. 530/8-32021, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The professional schools of the Labour Force Agency - OAED -. Before we go to the first time-consuming question, I would like to say to everyone - and everyone listens to me - that there has been very long time during the time-consuming question before the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to the Prime Minister. We've been out a lot of time. I would also like to ask colleagues, but also the ministers, to be consistent in time. The Bureau always has sensitivity and always has flexibility to make it easier. I and all of us believe that the topical questions, apart from the interest they have in local matters - there are others in general - also the role of the teacher who many fellow citizens are following and informing us and knowing what the problem is and how the government is answering it. I would remind you that many times - you will allow me, with my long experience of saying - to turn many topical questions into questions. They have such broad content. I have to say that in previous Rules of Procedure, the question had ten rows, two, three questions. In fact, there was no prology and there was the read by the President-in-Office of the timely question, the answer was given by the Minister, and then the Member focused on what he received in the reply. It is a warm request, because now others who are not in the Chamber and who have time to ask them, are listening to us, and I would remind you that the time of the vulnerability for the Member is two minutes and that the time of the second reading is three minutes. The time of the Minister's theology is three minutes and the denology again three minutes. Of course, it's not clichés two or three minutes, but there can be no excesses. Today we are late, there are too many questions and it is a three-day Friday. Let's all understand that. We begin with the fifth under the number 515/4-3-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State Solution Mr. Vassiliourdou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Exclusion from the regulation of a hundred twenty-dollars for debts to local government agencies (OTAs)". Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u73	With your tolerance, obviously. Good morning, Minister. Thank you very much for your presence. First of all, my question was addressed to the financial staff, because it relates more generally to the promises and laws that the government is voting on, then inventing ways of fulfilling as little as possible. I have just spoken yesterday with a regional official who is aware that he will be addressing the next elections, who said that he accepts dozens of citizens who want to be subject to the law's doses and who has no information, so that he can take pressure, but also bad behaviors from the outraged citizens. Today, I have not seen that you have issued the joint ministerial decision - which you had to make yesterday, obviously because of our timely question that you delayed its debate by a week. The CSR, of course, significantly restricts the beneficiaries, which we ask you to explain in detail. I shall, however, analyse our full question beforehand. I'll also testify yesterday's CIA in the Minutes. In particular, as a result of the economic crisis, due to the operating restrictions and the fall in revenues from the pandemic, the Government launched with Law No4764/2020 and Article 165 the adjustment of debts to the ATT in 120 instalments, which was then made at 100, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. The regulation concerns natural persons, as well as legal persons who have suffered financial damage from the pandemic. In particular: first, due to any cause to the municipalities and their legal persons established or certified from 15 February 2020 until 28 February 2021, i.e. for about one year. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Including debts that may have been subject to another arrangement, which was interrupted for any reason. According to the article, the Ministries of Finance and Interior were to be issued until 31 January 2021, when the codes, activity numbers, etc. were to be established. The arrangement is accompanied by the deletion of increments and fines from 100% to 50% depending on the number of doses. Our questions here now are as follows: When will the regulation begin? Why are you stalling? Did he have to ask a question first, Congressman? And secondly, how many doses will the troika allow you? There's nothing on the CIA. We are, however, pleased that you have issued CSRs, while substantiating how important opposition is when it is naturally working responsibly and respecting citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question which gives me the opportunity to say a few words about the possibility of adjusting debts to the OTAs first degree, an extraordinary opportunity of great importance for social cohesion, which has come to help the natural and legal persons who have been financially affected by the coronary pandemic. We know that the citizens' potential is not the same, especially in times such as the one we are going through now. In addition to the need to take measures to save human life, which is becoming a clear priority for the government, we must take measures and continuously take measures to provide financial facilities and to further support natural persons and businesses active throughout the economy and which are affected by the effects of the pandemic. That is precisely why we voted against Article 165 of Law 4764/2020. Three are the main points of this provision. First, the arrangement includes the partial payment of all assets established from 15 February 2020 to 28 February 2021 of citizens’ debts to the municipalities of the country and to their legal persons. Secondly, the debts are regulated by one-off payment or up to a hundred instalments, in accordance with the scales of the regulated amounts laid down in the relevant provisions of previous Law 4611/2019. And thirdly, the beneficiaries of the debt arrangement are determined by a joint ministerial decision. Indeed, this ministerial decision was adopted yesterday and I shall be tabling it in the Minutes, so that all Members and the House can be informed. I should like to say that there are some specific references to the Codes of Activity for firms affected and therefore all included, in addition to those companies affected by the pandemic, and for natural persons, the identification of the natural persons who have suffered financial consequences from the coronary pandemic and the conditions to be met are laid down. In particular, the beneficiaries of the arrangement are natural persons meeting at least one of the following conditions: whether they are workers whose contracts of employment have been suspended or who are unemployed, whether they have been supported by measures by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to support them, or, finally, they are owners of leased immovable property whose leases have been reduced by a public authority. All this in the context of dealing with the consequences of the pandemic. Now, as far as your suggestion is concerned, whether we have been late or should have asked first to proceed with the joint ministerial decision, you know that when there are such issues, we need a careful imprint of those affected by the pandemic. And that required a period of consultation with the Treasury before we proceed to the joint ministerial decision. Another question of a technical nature which has delayed the implementation of this provision for a short time is the implementation of the relevant platform to which citizens can appeal to regulate their debt. I am able to tell you that, in cooperation with the CEDEFOP and the Ministry of Digital Governance, we are ready in the next time to set up this platform and for the time that we have had the obligation, that is, from 1 March onwards, to receive any care it takes to avoid concentrating the time available to the debtors in order to regulate this debt. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Villards has the floor for his own dentology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u77	Minister, within the law, he wrote that by 31 January 2021 you would have issued the joint ministerial decision. So you don't justify what you said. In addition, the platform has not yet started to function. You said it would work sometime in the future. We would like to know when it will work because the citizens of course and the answers you give are not to us but to the citizens who ask us. Now, as far as the rest is concerned, because as I said at first, we are addressing the Ministry of Finance, what we have seen so far with government measures is that a lot is announced for communication and that much less is done. In other words, a picture of television cameras is created and then, when the subject has been forgotten, as with this law, it is partly undone in practice. For example: Firstly, aid for TPIX and the Development Bank Guarantee Fund has been submitted for a hundred and seventy-five thousand loans, amounting to 28 billion, and eventually 5.4 billion, possibly less than four and a half thousand beneficiaries. That is to say, only one application was accepted at thirty-eight, as we tabled in the Minutes. Secondly, only one in two farmers got the fifth returnee. Only one in two! Thirdly, for the first home protection programme, which, incidentally, concerns cases of Katseli law that are not strategically malpractices, there were hundreds of sixty thousand applications submitted, and we do not know how many were finally accepted, since the conditions were too strict. So you're institutionalizing something and then you're blocking it so you don't fulfill it. At the beginning of September 2020, around 51 thousand were approved and an extension was made to the ‘GEFISRA’ programme, as indicated in the eighth evaluation, always on page 53, after discussion with European institutions. We have asked the question of the compensation of Hurricane Janus, noting that only a very small part of them has been covered, while the IX car was strangely excluded from the fixed cars, despite the fact that the regulation was referring to all the fixed assets of a company. Some funds were given to meet the first needs of the affected, but of course much more is needed, mainly because of the damage caused by bad flooding planning. Even in order to suspend the protest of March's cheques which is not a financial measure, the fall in turnover in the quarter of October - December was taken as a criterion, despite the fact that in October there was no lockdown, so they were found unfairly outside of many companies. They're the obstacles I'm referring to. On the other hand, large companies such as AEGEAN are supported in inadmissible ways, while the motorways, the German ‘FRAPORT’, the Italian ‘TRAINOSE’, the ‘TERNA’, etc. are compensated for the lockdown. As regards the loans due to the pandemic, most of them were absorbed by large companies, where the first six got half, according to the Bank of Greece's report, which we submitted to the Minutes. All of this seems to us to be extremely unfair. Our questions are as follows: First, is it fair or reasonable to limit the CARs, when a county has been affected in total, especially as regards the debts that exist in the past for those who are in a state of economic closeness? And, secondly, is it fair to limit support by income criteria, where this does not apply to the reductions in rents that are given horizontally to all coronary strains? In our view, and in common sense, the 120 doses announced from the outset should be given to all citizens, not the 100 which you said before and which were subsequently adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that many of the issues Mr. Villards raised are not the object of my portfolio but of other Ministers. Therefore, I will only be in the second part, which deals with the issue of the operation of the platform. The operation of the platform was foreseen to be open until 30 June in order to enable the citizens who have a debt to join the arrangement. I also said in my prototype that because this platform has been delayed, we will be giving as much extension as necessary to ensure that the time, which was about four months for citizens to be able to be regulated, is not limited. We will give the extension that it needs. After all, this is why the legislator has made sure that the relevant Minister for the Interior is empowered to give this extension. Now, as far as the hundred or a hundred twenty doses are concerned, this issue has been settled directly since the relevant law was passed in December that passed us and the doses are a hundred, is not a hundred and twenty. With regard to the other issues that have to do with this government on issues relating to natural disasters, I think that all citizens first and foremost recognise that this government has taken care of through the procedures that the 'January' gave rise to very quickly, to compensation, very quickly to damages and shows also the natural disasters that followed, whether they were the earthquake in Samos, or the earthquake in Elassona and Tirnavo, or the floods in Evros, that we are next to them. And that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. The first topical question went very well because we were in good time. We are now continuing with the fourth Question No 531/8-32021 on the second question, by Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The problems of earthquake fighters in Regional Unity (P.U.) Larissa and Regional Unity (P.E.) Trials. Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President, and I would ask in advance - not that I disagree with what you have said since the beginning of the sitting - and I will probably need your tolerance, because these are issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u82	I understand that your question is of particular importance. These days it is of particular importance, because some of our fellow humans, represented by you as a Larisian MP, are of interest and want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u83	I will see to it that I am in time, Mr President, but if I exceed it what you show a tolerance. Indeed, as you said, Mr President, the question concerns the issues, the acute problems that have arisen from the recent strong earthquakes in both the Tyrnavos and Elassonas municipalities in the Larissa Regional Unit, but also in the neighbouring municipalities of other Thessaly counties, such as the Farcadonas Municipality in the Regional Unit of Trikalons, the Municipality of Palama and the villages respectively - not to mention them for an economy of time. So the tragic situation in which the inhabitants of these regions are now living and, in particular, the villages that were at the heart of the earthquake are showing, Mr President, a number of existing, immediate and pressing problems that will continue to exist in the next period, despite the announcements by the government, the region and the municipalities. This is because the measures to support the earthquaked families announced cannot meet the real needs, which are primarily to do with full compensation for damages, the creation of appropriate conditions for them to be able to stand on their feet in this difficult period, but also to return to a normal life as long as possible. So, on the basis of this situation that has arisen, our questions are what action will be taken by the Minister, the government, in order to compensate 100% for damages, costs for example for the reconstruction of homes and professional premises which have been affected, without conditions and conditions, without being excluded from those affected by any bureaucratic or legal interpretations, not to be charged with additional loans for these costs, 100% compensation for the equipment, supplies or for the damage caused by professionals and farmers. Accordingly, there should be constant care for feeding, treating all earthquakes, directing the recordings and strengthening of all necessary services to staff, so that in a short time not the first phase, but above all the second phase of the inspections of buildings, will be completed. At the same time, when the checks are completed, the demolitions of the prepared buildings must immediately be carried out. In addition, health units in particular at the Elassona Health Centre and the Tyrnavo Health Centre should be strengthened. Otherwise, there are problems in primary health care over time, but especially at this time, with these problems arising due to the earthquake in the inhabitants of the villages, in the wider area, there is an urgent need to strengthen staff in health establishments. We also believe that a number of economic measures should be launched to suspend payments to PPC, water, telephony, municipal charges and bank and tax debts should, in our opinion, be frozen, the HPAI and the trade fee should be abolished, and the exemption from the payment of individual insurance contributions should apply for at least six months and their grant by the State and, respectively, the provision of an income to cover immediate needs such as EUR 1 000 an unemployment allowance for all, increased correspondingly to all those who have suffered damage by earthquakes and, of course, to the professionals who have shut down their businesses. And finally, Minister, it takes brave funding from the state budget of course, so that they can cope with the increased needs of this period with the disasters that have occurred. Why, of course, dominance, if you wish, are building infrastructures, namely the disasters in the homes, but there are also a number of small or larger disasters that have been suffered and public buildings, schools in this regard, and other public buildings. The records are on the move and the number is on the increase. There are correspondingly a number of problems, disasters in infrastructure, road networks, bridges and they go by saying. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the earthquake is testing everyone's tolerances, but fortunately we did not mourn victims in this earthquake, and therefore everyone feels a fist to deal with the devastating consequences, at least the materials he left behind. And here I mean government, self-government, all citizens and, of course, the volunteers, whom I thank all. The government has been next to the earthquakes since the first moment. The first government step went the same day in the area. I went, the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, went to the competent State Secretary for Health on issues related to mental health. So all days from the earthquake until today we were next to the wounded. I want here to say two basic things, which are lessons from such cases. It is very important to record the damage immediately so that we have a quick compensation for the affected. We have made sure that the mayors of the region quickly go to an initial assessment without waiting for the technical cards planned and that we give 900,000 to the three municipalities affected by the first social protection needs, so that the first aid money can be provided from the Ministry of the Interior to the affected. It is of great importance here to note that, with communication with the Governor of the Agorastos and the mayors and two other municipalities, Palamas and Larissa, we will proceed with a corresponding move for the areas you mentioned, Mr Lambroulis, in order to support these affected ones as well. It is also important that, in addition to social protection, which is immediate relief, the second check will be completed by the stepping stones of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the volunteers of the TEI in order, as you know, to have the final record of which houses are residential and which are not, so that repairs can proceed immediately, which ends very quickly. The other element which also has a very large alliance is that mayors should always be in cooperation with the region so that they can make the infrastructure projects required so that those who cannot stay in their homes can stay in human conditions. Here, too, we have moved very quickly in relation to any other situation, to make the place of space, to go to power, to get water, to plan the drainage in order to transfer the houses and from Tuesday, which has passed us constantly, there are houses and caravans in the area to keep all the people who - I repeat - cannot stay in their homes because of the earthquake, in human conditions. Now, as far as schools are concerned, an issue that seemed very difficult to resolve has been solved immediately. And I want your tolerance here a little, Mr President. The school in Damasy has already been demolished since yesterday. If one were to say that within a week a school that has suffered so much damage would be demolished to build a new one, we would probably laugh. But that's what happened. A temporary solution has been found for students, they will be housed in the Naval camp that is close and has the international school. A solution was found to build from the beginning with private contribution from the school to Damasi and corresponding actions were taken in the other schools either by squeeze or by confronting another school, which was empty. For example, in Zarko in Trikalon Prefecture, in the municipality of Farcadona, there was the problem with school there and the solution was found in high school, which was empty and works as a museum, with some work fast and with Mr. Skreka's contribution, my and of course the OSCE could move quickly. So there will be no problem there for the housing of our students. As far as the issues you are concerned in your prototype and in your question about housing and the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, and I are constantly trying to tell the citizens that they have the possibility to rent a rent in order to be temporarily resident until their homes are restored, but they also have the possibility of restoring the losses with 80% financing from the state side and 20% interest-free loan. I understand that you are asking 100%, what you said before, but the current institutional framework provides for 80% of the state's participation and 20%, which is, of course, the interest-free loan for citizens. With regard to wider infrastructure issues, the first bridges which had some damages were restored. The bridge in Vlachoyannis in consultation with the region will proceed and join the work of the Ministry of Interior in order to do anything else about the road network with the intervention of the Minister of Infrastructure will be restored. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully, Minister. I know you've been in the areas, like us, the past few days. Since the first day and stepping up of the party, as well as dozens of actors traveled the villages, the region, expressing their solidarity, but also their support for the wounded. Already since the first day unions, trade unions from all over the country, not only from the wider region of Thessaly, in practice testified their solidarity with the affected on a number of issues at least immediately that they considered they could assist them. Look. So far, a thousand six hundred fifty houses have been judged by the primary control of non-residentials. I would like to point out: from the primary check, so that there are no misunderstandings. Of course, there are several houses that have already been demolished by the earthquake. Professional spaces: forty-eight unsuitable from the hundred thirty. As far as public buildings - I mean schools natural resources, but also other public buildings - have so far been classified as 'yellow', which means that there should be a comprehensive planning for interventions. Secondly, I heard you say that you also said about rent subsidies. Regardless of whether it started or not, which it didn't start, there's a particular thing about where these people would go to find a house in Tirnavo, in Elassona? There's an issue of finding. These people, the inhabitants of the villages, especially Damasios, Mesohori and other of course, want to be close to their village, to be close to the fields and livestock farms. Their main concern is agro-food, there is nothing else, unless they occasionally do some of the industry in the wider region. So the immediate solution at least or in the way it can be found and found is the habitats. We hear the district manager say for a hundred and twenty homes. One hundred and twenty houses, I'm sorry, but they're not enough for hundreds of people - I mean, for all the villages, it's not just Damasy, Mesochori - if that's the number. This is where more is needed. And of course they need a series of measures, and I do not need to repeat them, which have to do with economic relief measures for the affected, which is important, because they will find all this in front of them. Of course we say, Mr President, that today, both science and technology offer precisely the possibility of taking preventive measures, because we also need to draw conclusions from this earthquake. After all, our country is an earthquake region, there is huge experience over time, not only this earthquake. The whole country has been devastated by earthquakes and not only. Thus, there is the scientific, technological data which can offer towards prevention, namely to increase the resilience of constructions and, on the other hand, to help find, implement organisational measures to minimise the consequences of an earthquake before, during and after the earthquake. And these measures, Mr President, if they were to be taken, but if they are taken, they satisfy the need to minimise the earthquake risk. Therefore, this issue not only on the occasion of this earthquake, but on the occasion of time - I repeat - is a political one. So are all those measures, for example, necessary to minimise the earthquake risk in Greece, if you want to see the earthquake in Thessaly? I ask a rhetorical question: what would the situation in these affected areas be if there were care to date, prevention by the state by means of organised services in order to prevent them from interfering? Because most buildings, houses if you want to be demolished are decades, bricks. So would we have such extensive disasters in housing and the unsettling of hundreds of thousands of people in the wider region? Accordingly, damage to public buildings, infrastructure, roads, bridges, etc., in professional areas, would have been minimised? We say yes. Because in Damasy, what you said is a reality, but the school is built in '38. We must take these into account. What audits were carried out, how they were done, whether they were done and whether it was necessary at some point to become a new school. That is what we mean by prevention and care on the part of the state. And here, Mr President, we believe that the need for central planning and the creation of a single state agency equipped with all means to control and intervene where necessary in practice by improving, shielding buildings, homes, schools, public buildings, etc., respectively, public works, and all this without any burden on the people, but the coverage of the project should be implemented through state funding. We do not basically deceive that in the present system these can be planned, implemented, because they are costs to the state and therefore to the capital that the state serves. We say that the workers, the farmers, the self-employed, the populace of the regions, particularly those affected by recent earthquakes, must organise their struggle, their struggle, their struggle, demand, claim a life of certainty, since development, progress today in science and technology enables them to minimise, as I have said before, the consequences on the lives and property of the people caused by either earthquakes or other natural disasters. Because, Mr President - and I close with this - what those affected in this region are living and those who have been affected by earthquakes or other natural disasters in the previous years are what we say the enormous contradiction between the possibilities that exist today for our people and the harsh reality that accompanys the next day of natural disasters. This also underlines and highlights the enormous responsibilities of all governments, regional authorities, regional authorities and municipal authorities with the logic of cost-benefit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to highlight two - three points. The first thing has to do with the housekeepers. Are there enough hundred and twenty houses mentioned by Mr. Agathos, as you said? Apparently not enough. But I would like to put two points here. First of all, that we're going to continue...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u90	How many will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u91	Anybody they need will be there. And that's not all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u92	They know the record. Counted beans are the world there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u93	The recording is related to what I'm about to tell you now. Any housekeepers need to be there. At the same time we have gone from Saturday to caravans in the area thirty-seven the number on the first day and will be added another twenty days in the next few days. For homes, we must also take into account secondary control, which is moving quickly, in the sense that many of the houses which are considered unfit in the first registration are considered inappropriate for reasons of their having to do with the fact that the seismic sequence is still under way. They therefore ask people not to be in their homes so that after a post-seism we do not have any victims. So in the second check you all know from the experience of the past - because we are a seismic country - that the percentage of those that are inappropriate is well reduced. So these two have to be taken into account, and I believe that in the next few days we will have a definitive record and what is really necessary for homes we will provide it, despite the fact that it is not something that is very easy to obtain and quickly, in fact, no one will. Now, as far as prevention is concerned, I will fully agree with you on the importance of prevention. And you know that at school in Damasi many human souls were saved on the initiative of the school director - who deserve congratulations - with the temptation of pupils and teachers, but also for another reason, that a few days ago an evacuation had taken place in the event of an OSCE earthquake and therefore they all knew what to do and that proved to be a salvage. Because I myself who entered school was really surprised by the fact that all these people managed to get out of school without having serious injuries or life losses. Prevention has therefore played an important role here in terms of evacuation. Second element on prevention: Within the "Antonis Tritsis" programme, which is a flagship programme that changes the appearance of local government for the benefit of local communities, there is the call for "AT11". This is entitled ‘Actions for infrastructures in need of earthquake protection’. I personally call on all mayors to submit their first proposals for the Antonis Tritsis programme to be proposals within this axis. And I tell everyone personally, and I have said it at my private meetings, and I say it at the first opportunity, because they are actions that are crucial, so that we quickly know which public buildings, schools, or something else is inappropriate, to make the necessary interventions. With regard to the other issues you said, Mr Lambroulis, on the issue that is generally related to the presence of the state, his fingerprint in cooperation that may exist between government and self-government 1 or 2 degrees, we should always have a goal, improve these relationships, not look at what has happened in the past. From what has happened in the past to keep the positive elements, to reject negatives and to constantly strengthen positive and co-operation. And I think that from the "January" and then we have seen a very good co-operation that will be institutionalised through a bill brought by the Ministry of Finance, which has been presented to the basic principles in the previous Ministerial Council, so that we can have a quicker process and a more immediate payment of compensation and compensation for damages. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u94	Thank you too, Minister. We continue with the seventh under No 521/5-3-2021 topical question by the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Miltiades Hatzigiannakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Critical problems ahead of the start of applications for debt adjustment to the local government (OTA) 1st Grade". Here, Mr Hatzigiannakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Because you said before that the process of the current questions is also of a pedagogical nature, it is also of a pedagogical nature for us who are new parliamentarians. You as an oldest can...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u96	No, I said it about the world myself, who wants to see us, you and the ministers and everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u97	But I say that not only for the world - I agree that it also has for the world - it also has for us. In this sense, I because the subject of my own timely question is similar - almost the same - with Mr Villardos - the truth is - I shall try not to repeat what was said by both Mr Villard and the Minister. I would, however, like to clarify a few issues with regard to the CSR and the procedure for the repayment of the debts voted on by No 4764/2020. You know, Minister, that it was a promise made by the previous Minister, Mr Theodorikos, both to the mayors and to all our affected citizens, who have been in a very difficult situation, especially the town's debtors. And in order not to blame Mr. Theodorikos or you, my personal assessment is that you should not be here today, although we were addressing it because of timely competence, it should be Mr. Skeylakakis, because I recognise your intention and the predecessor - although he had the position of Minister - Mr Theodorikos, Mr. Theodorikos - to incorporate almost all the city's debts according to the models of the old hundred-dollar regulation, so he came to the House to vote on the committees. Unfortunately, Mr. Squirrel's iron hand intervened from committees to plenary and we have this final bill, which not only significantly restricts the people who will join, the CARs that will join, but above all the debts that will be incorporated, which are only the debts of the pandemic. It's reduced the hundred and twenty doses in a hundred, but that's less important. And unfortunately, he has also made very strict conditions, which has been reflected in us, and we appreciate that that is why you have been too late, because you have in Genoa the observations of the Directorate-General for Ottoman finances asking for you and from what we know, you have tried to bring the Ottawa as well and to bring an amendment that goes back to the regulation. I remind you that on March 1st, the platform is supposed to start. Several municipalities, because they did not know exactly what to do, since there was neither a CYA nor a platform - the necessary elements of the law to start the submission process - started and built their own platforms, such as the Municipality of Athens and we had information from other municipalities. Unfortunately, what we know from the Central Association of Municipalities and from the Ministry of Digital Policy is that the platform itself - it takes a time to complete. It's nothing simple. It takes a month or two to complete it. Let us confirm whether this is the case, because we consider it self-evident for you to be a ministerial decision, since you have the right under the authorizing provision to extend, even in this six-month period. But tell us how you plan, if you actually get to the worst two months scenario, to cover the people who are interacting with the municipalities. And, above all, I am talking about businesses, which are either personal, individual, and so, they will be in the second of natural persons and, if they are legal persons, they will be in the first category of the CYR - they will have to lease common spaces, tables, and, once they have removed the pouch of Lockdown, they will be able to open the catering and, of course, the hotels that should rent beaches, they will have to lease spaces to develop the umbrellas and sunbeds. And it goes without saying the income that they expect and how these people, those who manage and do not close their operations. For them, if they are delayed and cannot get local information, because it is precisely because the platform and the whole process will be delayed, it is obvious that the focus will be opened, tourism will be opened and they will not be able to use the tools that are waiting for how and how. I'm closing this up because the rest of Mr. Villards said it too, and you've responded to enough and I'll come back if anything needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u98	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that we will not have to say the things we have said before, and I have had the opportunity to reply to Mr Villard and to go to two issues which are worthwhile to discuss a little more. Firstly, regarding the periphery of regulation, yes, the periphery of regulation has been reduced, when we talk about debts created during the coronary, during the pandemic period and not of an open duration, as was the original prediction. Does this mean that we stop caring for those who have debts that they cannot serve? No, if you don't set debts, you can't collect from these people. Therefore, we are open to see what we can do, always in cooperation with the financial staff, to have people who cannot serve their debts to serve them and to be informed. So I'd like you to keep that. Secondly, can the platform which has been delayed to open up problems, in particular with regard to businesses, but also with regard to natural persons in their other activities? It will not be that long in time, it will not be two months, which will be necessary for the platform to function with the agreement we had with the CEDE - yesterday I had such a specific meeting with the President of the CEDE - and with the communication I had with the other competent bodies of the Ministry of Digital Governance and the Municipality of Athens you mentioned. I understand that it is a function which can be short, that is to say, about two or three weeks, in order to extend, respectively, the time within which the citizens who have to come to regulate their debt can come. With regard to the wider issues of support for the municipalities that you have suggested because of the continuation of the pandemic and the loss of income from the municipalities, I have to tell you that, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, we have arranged to strengthen the municipalities with a sum of about EUR 50 million, which will be available from this month, after the distribution made by the competent services of the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the evidence of the observatory and other criteria, which we take into account, in order to strengthen the municipalities, because the loss of revenue they have suffered is really great, and the increased costs of course relating to COVID. And it's something that's going to go on within the month. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Hatzigiannakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what we see as problems with the platform is, on the one hand, time because we have had this briefing. We knew it would pass through the Department of Digital Policy. Although we do not think it is so important where either the financing or the creation of the platform itself would be. Although we consider that the Ministry of Interior could also cover the same platform. As far as we understand it, the cost will not exceed 100,000 euros. It is a cost that the Government's ministries can cover and on the basis of the legal framework in force, by direct awards, so and swift procedures will also be legal, and in other cases you have unfortunately chosen direct awards that are not lawful. But that is why we will come back to another debate. Not you, of course, but the Minister, Mr Vorides, who is already defending these choices, who, although a law-abiding legal person, should know what is lawful and what is not in accordance with European law, and not just with Greek law and what we are voting on here, but who in no way can in any case violate European directives. What concerns us with the platform, and it is true our anxiety, because it is the agony of the municipalities and, obviously, of the citizens, if that platform - which we would like to know about, since you had the meeting with the CEDEFOP and the Ministry of Digital Policy, because I imagine it is more his responsibility - is to be able to put all of these elements which you have as the conditions for accession. I know how a municipal service works, a municipal financial service. Those responsible for checking whether or not citizens will be integrated into the favourable regulations of this law will be the economic services of operators. That's why we're not sure if he can put through any platform all the prerequisites you put in. For example, how will the municipality's financial service identify whether the debtor making its application fulfil the conditions that you have set in the joint ministerial decision? If this issue has been resolved, let us know, so that we too can reassure the mayors and the citizens who are in contact with us. It is important that you really see the debts of the municipalities. We have reached a point where there has been no real recording. It is a huge sum due to the municipalities and a very large sum cannot be collected. Couldn't be collected before the pandemic came. Now I count it around 50% of the written debts in every municipality. It is impossible to collect, especially if there are no financial tools for the pandemic, which, unfortunately, the financial staff and Mr. Skokakis chose to exclude from the rule of the law. So we would like you to tell us why you have referred a little bit to this, if you intend to see such an arrangement and what time. In closing, Minister, we are pleased that, even late, you have brought the NSA that had to come out. We are pleased that we, and obviously the other opposition party, also contribute to speeding up the procedures already delayed. Because it was January 31st. But I believe that it is not because of you, as I said before, but because of the Ministry of Finance. We in all cases of self-government, even in what we politically disagree, are here to discuss them, to give solutions to the municipalities. I've told you personally. That is why I have asked you for an institutional meeting, because we are very concerned about the very important programme of "Philodomou - Antonis Tritsis". And it's not just our intention to make an opposition. Our aim is to help to enable municipalities to become real development tools. As we see delays that are concerned about both self-government and us, we would like an update. We would like you to move on quickly. And we, as the government that brought "PHILDIMO" as a pioneering financial instrument, if you are judging, can contribute towards the common, I believe, towards the development perspective of the local government bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u102	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. As far as the platform is concerned, I cannot say anything more at the moment, except that the agreement we have made with the CEDEFOP and the Ministry of Digital Governance makes us optimistic that we will proceed quickly to their creation and will not be so much delayed, such as the one you are implying. On the subject of support, as long as the pandemic continues, we are here to support the economy in all aspects. A demonstration of this is the Prime Minister's yesterday's announcement of the support measures. We will do the same in terms of municipalities and of course in terms of debts, as we have said before. It is a matter of broader planning and consultation with the Ministry of Finance. When we are ready for this, then we will say much more than we are going to have expectations today. As far as the "Antonis Tritsis" programme is concerned, you know that most of the projects of "Philodimos" have been integrated directly into the "Thirteen" programme. Those who had joined and had secured funding are progressing properly. It is a great programme, which can change the look of local society in the interests of all citizens, and I am really glad that we will be able to have this institutional, as you said, cooperation, in order to ensure the continuation of projects that will leave a print very large, transforming the Greek countryside in particular, but also, of course, rejuvenating our cities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth question under the number 522-3-2021 topical question of second-cycle Athens, Mera25, Angeliki Adamopoulou, to the Deputy Prime Minister, Theodoros Livanios, on "Serious issues about radio stations and the exercise of the responsibilities of the National Radiovision Council (EPC)". Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you already know, various issues relating to the chronic problems of the National Broadcasting Council have recently been raised. There are many who are publicly placed and point out that the PSE unfortunately does not fulfil its constitutional tasks, fails to carry out accreditation acts, as well as to intervene in its own motions, legally and effectively, in order to deal with the following pathogens observed in the broadcasting landscape. First of all, it is noted that there is a monolingualism, a monopoly of a party or political character, which clearly violates Article 15(2) of the Constitution in relation to pluralism, the pluralism that must exist in the presentation of the facts. Even any criticism can be applied to the government line is under attack on the part of journalists. It is also noted that there is a disproportionate - not to say it completely - under-representation, marginalisation and exclusion of the members of the opposition parties, in particular the Eleanor of Anti-Population. Mera25 has been completely marginalized by most of the media and this, of course, is even more invading pluralism. The multi-ownership status of the media and radio and television scenery is also observed. This is what you know is in breach of Article 14(9) of the Constitution. It is characteristic that there are groups of companies holding five licenses for radio frequencies, but all these phenomena have not been dealt with by the PSE, they have been inactivated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need your tolerance because it is very important. She's got an increased social interest. There are radio stations operating without staff, reproducing playlists all day. Instead of employing technicians, sounders, they have the breeding list, so that employment rights are violated in this particular subject, but also the quality level of these emissions is downgraded, the cultural range is limited. There are radio stations operating under the temporary lending scheme and what are they doing? They are essentially groups of companies which have these frequencies in their possession and which fictitiously declare that they are employing employees and that this is not the case. They declare that they have employees in their groups, there are no staff, or sometimes they operate with credit workers, with contractors and that, you know very well that they are prohibited by collective agreements. And here the PSE is not interfering with this circumvention of labour rights. Of course, there is also a great discrepancy between the designation of a radio station, namely the licence it has received, and the actual content of the emissions. There is a large audience station that has been licensed to be an informant and operates as a musician and entertainer. It has still not removed its illegal and arbitrary character, although the PSE has adopted an act of credentials for this station. I conclude by saying that all these phenomena show in the most emphatic way that the institutional credibility of the PSE is currently being fatal and that the situation in the broadcasting landscape is also problematic and completely unethical. So, as a central administration, there is also radio and television, what measures will you take to protect employment rights in the media and finally implement collective labour agreements and what will you do in order to strengthen the PSE so that it is dismantled and finally fulfils its constitutional tasks. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u106	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, you know better than I do that the National Broadcasting Council is the nominated by the Constitutional Authority which has control over the broadcasting landscape. We had a detailed debate in the vote on the bill, the ratification of the directive about two to three weeks ago, when the PSE issue was raised several times. And what I said two to three times in committee and at least once in plenary is that the government has committed itself that any request for staff or logistics exists by the National Broadcasting Council will be fully met. Evidently, in order to cope with the increased workload, the National Broadcasting Council probably needs more staff and more skilled because now the broadcasting landscape and news has evolved a lot. So there may also be new specialities that have been planned and possibly need logistics. In this part we are committed that as soon as a proposal comes from a National Broadcasting Council, it will be evaluated as a priority, either in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior on the matter of staff, or in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance on the issue of technological upgrading. So we are waiting for the PSE proposal and we will be able to cope immediately. Let me say two things about the issues you have raised. On the issue of pluralism in charge of control and sanctions, the National Council for Television is exclusive. The Government does not exercise control or supervision in the media. Especially for radio stations, with the recent L.4779, we have for the first time given a final date for the completion of the permits on 30 June 2023. We have a debt that radio stations cannot operate continuously with extensions, with legislative arrangements, where there are also strong doubts about the legality of an ongoing extension. That is why, for the first time, an extension of a specific time horizon has been introduced. Therefore, we will immediately enter into a first-stage dialogue with the National Telecommunications and Post Committee in order to establish the technical specifications for radio frequencies. It will open up a debate with the institutional partners, in particular with the Radio Station Owners' Union and for the digital radio for which I am very much expecting to hear their views, because it is something that is very much discussed in particular in the European Union and whether or not we want to move in this direction. We will, of course, proceed to the licensing, where it will obviously have some minimum standards for the operation of radio stations. Obviously there will be a number of employees, there will be a programme discrimination, there will be several such parameters, which will be legislated, and we will go to a licence for radio stations, so that there will not be any phenomena like what you have described. In any case, the government's intention on the two major open issues, the authorisation of regional stations - which we all recognise is how important it is for the Greek region to close down, as well as that which is almost three decades - but also the licensing of radio stations throughout the country - because at the moment all radio stations are currently operating on temporary leave - are the government's central priorities and timelines have been set for the first time. I would remind you that for the regional stations it is 31 December 2022 for the radio stations and 30 June 2023 for the radio stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am very pleased that you have referred to the issue of logistics, because it is a fact that, since 2009, the staff of the PSE have been reduced by 30%, there is tragic subsidization, a tragic lack of infrastructure. It is also true - and this has also been set out in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency - that the National Broadcasting Council, unfortunately, does not fulfil its duties and does not intervene when necessary, but intervenes to restrict freedom of expression. It has not intervened - and I would like to point out, in light of the news - when tragic things have happened that violate the objectivity and impartiality of the information recently. I will refer to a single shot of a channel specific showing a police officer who we know very well that he threatened to kill the present citizens and the channel modeled over and said that they would kill him. What did the PSE do? No intervention. Not even a press release. For the broken cars in Panormos by the police showed the whole opposite. On the fact that your Member came out by committing a criminal act, violation of service secrets, Article 252(2) of the Criminal Code and disclosed information from the citizen who was attacked by the police again, the PSE did not make the slightest recommendation. All this inactivation of the National Broadcasting Council obviously serves some particular purpose. It is advisable that this supposed independent authority - because we are talking about false independence, and I say this because you know that both the state and the members are appointed by the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament - a tool, a mouthpiece, has become a body of social corrosion, since it does not intervene when matters of democracy arise. This body is based on the principle of popular sovereignty and should have intervened in very key points that violate individual freedoms and above all violated impartial information. For the composition of members and the appointment of members, I will table for the minutes the proposal of the Association of Technical Broadcasting of Greek Radio which highlighted all these problems. I will also present the memorandum sent to all the groups in Parliament, but I will return it again, with specific stations that violate matters with the multi-ownership and labour rights and the irregular leases they make and transfers of radio frequency management. I will put forward their proposal as to how the members of this body should be. And it's also Mera25's proposal. There should be a broad democratic representation in this body. The structure of this body cannot be so closed and strict. They'll have to enter trade unions, unions. Councils should be held by deputies and elected citizens. There must be a broad socialisation of this body so that, at last, pluralism in the media can finally begin to carry out its constitutionally planned task and, finally, pluralism in the media. This monologue and this monologue are not only debauching and undervaluing the Greek people. It is a violation above all of dignity and democracy. You must strengthen its role by amending the legislative framework. Don't just watch permissions. Where is the legislative framework in order to ensure that the PSE is more effective? Why didn't you talk about revocations? The end you mentioned, that is June, is a very long deadline. You should, therefore, strengthen its role, have regulatory powers other than legislative and accreditation, and we should certainly ensure that it is financially self-evident with extra funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, I will tell you the following: Firstly, the deadline is the deadline for the effective completion of the licensing procedure for radio and regional stations. We could have put a much shorter deadline and extended it several times and at the end nothing happened. We believe that this deadline is sufficient to complete the institutional framework, which also requires the necessary modifications and adaptation to the technological environment that exists and to the broadcasting sector. However, there is also the need for a dialogue with all stakeholders to close this issue. As regards the composition of the National Broadcasting Council, its members are elected by a large majority by the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament, who are the representatives and representatives of the parties involved. Good, in my opinion, the country's city is a Presiding Parliamentary Republic. Parliament shall have a central role in the functioning of the Republic and Parliament shall appoint the members of the Independent Authorities. They are not defined by a government decision. We also need a cross-party consensus, which should be as broad as possible. I do not understand what the trade union representatives are doing in an audit body. Will they be audited and audited? I would say that last week it was closed with the completion of the composition of the National Broadcasting Council, where the Conference of Presidents approved the appointment of Vice-President of the National Broadcasting Council and the member whose position was vacant. The two seats were paid. The National Broadcasting Council, as regards its composition as management, now operates in full composition. And again, I repeat, that once the President of the National Broadcasting Council has come up with the proposal for the necessary logistical upgrading - and we agree that there is a need for logistical upgrading, because we need technologies to be used to make more effective quality control, if you like, programmes, etc., even the time between emissions, and even the definition of the appearance of parties per news report, etc. - we'll have the staff needed to make his work more effective. This is the government's job to give the tools to the National Broadcasting Council to do its job properly. From there on, it is a matter of his own to perform his constitutional role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will have a short break before we enter the debate on the next topical question, since the Minister has been delayed because of increased traffic in the streets.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u113	The sitting shall be resumed. We continue with the tenth under number 527/8-32021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Describe or rent the old train station of the Greek Railway Agency (OSE) in the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I can only comment that you, as Secretary of State for Transport, are stuck in traffic. This shows how citizens do not trust public transport, how afraid of the spread of the coronary and how incomplete the government's action on this issue is. And to say even that, while there are people exposed, you are persecuting the gatherings elsewhere and so you really want to turn public opinion into other directions than reality. But let's get to the point. Mr. Mitsotakis went out a few days ago and made a celebration, the concession of the OSE train station, which we had discussed with you and the Minister on several occasions and was a request from the local society. In fact, he announced and reiterated his words: "I am very pleased that today we are implementing a commitment, which we have undertaken in this area in consultation with GAIAOSE, to grant this space to the Municipality of St. Anargyra - Kamaterou". Only we learned after that this concession is rented, as it has a price, which is being discussed that it can be around EUR 150,000 a year. So it's any other way than a concession. First of all, we want you to make the contract public, which must be available to the citizens to see and judge. Let me remind you that this is the only thing that the Prime Minister has done for his constituency. I want us to understand what it is that he did, whether it's rent or concession. We want you to explain to us - if it is rental - why the Prime Minister misled the word 'concession'. And also, because a project masquerading was presented, the municipality says it was not made by him. Who built this carpet? Why do buildings appear in this carpet in the off-site area? Just stuff. Also, to explain whether the plan by Mr. Mitsotakis and your Government is to be granted through PPP to private individuals this site. It's a matter. And in his statements the Prime Minister said that it would like to be done. We want you to make it clear, because by concession we go to privatisation and rent in the municipality. It's a very different picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, having referred to the media at the beginning of your speech, I would like to say that, in fact, a very important effort has been made in recent months to strengthen public transport both in fleet and in inspiring capacity, which, unfortunately, had to be done for several years. It has certainly not been done by the previous government, including the head of your party, nor has it unfortunately also been by other governments. So, right now, we're doing a titanic project. In addition to public transport, however, my colleague, because we discussed last few days in the House, in this Chamber the draft law on Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans and on micro-mobility, I was very surprised that your party was not, unfortunately, a positive one with regard to the SBAKs. And at least I wonder, because I know your own feelings about environmental protection, and I expect you to have a positive attitude at least. I'm coming to the question. Mr Colleague, a few months ago and, in particular, in November of last year, we were discussing again in this Chamber with regard to the Sanctuary of the Holy Anargyns. And if I remember correctly, you have invoked the government politically for what commitments and how many has he announced. Also, a few months ago you had shown a real anxiety about increasing the green rate of each resident in the area of western Athens. And today, despite the difficulties we have encountered in recent months in the functioning of the economy and society, but also in the public administration because of the coronary, all the necessary procedures have been completed. The Municipality of Agios Anargyro - Kamaterou now has the opportunity to renovate and form the place that he rented for the operation of a sports, cultural and commercial park with the corresponding embedded and the structure of the spaces. Therefore, the present government actually made the commitment it had made to the people of the region to enjoy a better environment and a better quality of life and, of course, all this, not with words but with works of substance and very specific substance. What I do not understand is why you have the confusion about the issue of this action. So I want to make things clear. There is no difference, Mr Colleague, between rental and concession. There is a difference between concession and free concession. In fact, I explained it to you in the previous debate, when you specifically requested a free delivery of the space to the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou. I would also remind you that every body in the narrow or wider public sector is not the owner of public land to make donations, but manages them on specific terms and conditions, and of course gives an account of its actions in relation to the utilization of land and the safeguarding of the public interest. Thus, in this context GAIOSE examined the request of the Municipality of Saints Anargyra - Kamaterou, it consulted, as the law defines, with the manager of the national railway infrastructure and reached a mutually acceptable concession agreement by leasing. Very soon, I will tell you what this agreement includes, Mr President. The use of a total area of sixty-two thousand square meters in the old railway station of Agios Anargyra. This site will be delivered in 2021, after the infrastructure manager has first removed all the infrastructure material needed to remove all the mobile property. The municipality will not even be charged with this exit. The lease duration is 12 years with renewal for another twelve plus six, too, if the municipality wants it. The municipality is required to submit a study to GEOSE no later than one year after the signature of the lease agreement for the formation, I repeat, and operation of a sports, cultural and commercial park with the appropriate outsourcing and the configuration of the environment. In this way, my colleague, in an organised, legitimate and realistic way, we are exploiting the property of the public, ensuring the ownership of the property, making substantial contributions and not keeping to how many announcements a government can make, but measuring the actions it is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I'd really like to make a bus report. It was in the micro-mobility bill that you also went through the amendment to buy the filters in buses and air conditioners, so I think that was the assumption that so far it has been stuck in buses. As far as sustainable mobility projects are concerned, and Merra25 would obviously not be in favour of them when you legislate that it can be done by way of derogation from spatial and urban legislation and, in fact, to facilitate the privatisation of such projects through PPPs, as we see to be the trend at the moment by the government. Of course, you also said in the timely questions that concessions cannot be free of charge. I don't disagree with that. But the Prime Minister was clear. First of all, when we talk about concession, it's a concession. There is no useless and useless concession. The concession is defined by the Greek language. I am very pleased that today we are implementing the commitment to grant this site to the Municipality of Agia Anargyra. It has never been mentioned that there is a price and I think that all of us, regardless of the discussions that we have heard, when we heard the Prime Minister's statement, imagined that this is a waste. I, too, had come out and welcomed it publicly. The question you have asked so long is: "But GAIOSE can no longer make concessions. There are commitments, as they are part of the surplus fund and so on. And yet, after GAIOSE was granted to the ultraperipheral region, we see that it is unjustified to the extent of BSE 301 and other areas of the Municipality of St. Anargyra, which were done with the previous government. I mean, this concession can be made unpurpose. That's what we're asking. We're asking you to make money, we're asking you to become final so that the municipality can actually invest in this area. It's a municipality, it's not a company, to invest for twelve years, and then it might be renewed for twelve years, and maybe for another six. Local government cannot function in this way. You also did not reply to us about the study and details of how this carpet came to show building in the off-site area. In other words, we want it to be a little clear on your part, the terms of any rental or contract to become explicit. Why don't you make this contract public? Why isn't it a public document? Why not give it the democratic transparency of access to all citizens. What for? If I were you, to be honest, I would have brought it to the House, put it in the Minutes to share with the citizens and put an end to a debate on what the terms really are in this concession. I would also like your commitment to this retreat and unpurpose indeed, as we have seen that it has been done in the past. It is the only thing the Prime Minister does for his constituency. Let's get it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I have told you in your previous question, and I repeat it today. We are not prepared to launch a start-up, as you have perhaps suggested, which is actually being carried out before the necessary work is done. However, there is a real opportunity to develop the region in a clear and organised way. That is the will of the government and I do not want there to be any misinterpretation of this. Instead of recognising the value of the actions taken by the government, today you are asking us to discuss not in real terms, but in relation to imaginary enemies. In particular, you ask in your protology whether the space will be awarded to contractors. The answer, Mr Colleague, is no. It is awarded to the Municipality of Saints Anargyra - Kamaterou through rental. Clear. That's the term. You are even inventing an area - 'chilet' to be granted to individuals. The answer is, no. They will be granted by leasing sixty-two thousand square meters to the citizens through the actions of their municipality. You are demonising, by your question, a financial instrument, which is the public-private partnership, which, of course, has no application in this case. Repeatedly use the request for the free concession, when the municipal authority responsible and with a specific study plan expressed its interest in renting the space. And if I remember correctly, Mr Colleague, you also mentioned this in your question, rent refers to about EUR 150 000, i.e. about EUR 220 per thousand square metres per month. Therefore, it cannot be considered that the public will be imposed on the development of a green lung which you, too, have recognised was missing from the region concerned only to the minimum. You create impressions about the terminology used by the Prime Minister. I have told you in the theory that both terminology is correct and that the present government goes beyond words and, if you like, promises and, of course, we would not in any case have made any sense any meaningless inauguration with painted cardboard and real estate wagons, but we are doing very specific work. In fact, you ask about the cartoon of the work that appeared on the day of the event with the parallel appearance of an unknown identity of buildings outside the town plan. As far as I know, Mr Colleague, there was no makeet, but a development plan for the Municipality of Saints Anargyro - Kamaterou. I think you should ask the municipal authority about the further things. So let us be productive, let us leave the impressions. I really call on you sincerely and in good faith to monitor the regeneration of the area - anyway it is now the responsibility of the municipal authority - and if you find problems, we are really here to discuss it and, of course, until then, it is good not to invent fantasy enemies or, of course, to make problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you too, Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 3564-26-1-2021 question of the cycle of petitions by the MP of Heraklion Crete of the Movement of Change Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The resolution of problems caused by the Archangel community of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas from the construction of the new motorway for the airport". Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you can see, I can only ask you - since, of course, you are in a position - to make statements on the publications we have seen in the previous newspapers on the non-acceptance of our country's proposal - the Ministry of Infrastructure, in this case - to introduce the Northern Road Axis of Crete into the Recovery Fund. If you have any news, it's interesting. It is important that what is still expressed today by all the actors in Crete, with reactions to this issue and I would ask you to inform us. I now come to the question. It is essentially a set of settlements around the new Kastelio airport, which is disturbed by the construction of the project, namely the motorway connecting the airport to the North Road, the communication between the settlements of the same community. It's Scholarochori, Galenian, Archangel, Cardoullano. It's a community that's literally cut into two. I would mention attributes from the letter from the President of the Community, Mr Syrgonakis, that problems arise even in relation to the cemetery, but also problems relating to the flooding, which need to be addressed. The recent flood in November has shown that additional measures are needed, so firstly a study to make the necessary projects. The specific question is whether there can be a post-study - because the study has been completed - an intervention so that without changing the path or any other features of the project, there can be a direct connection of the settlements, not by a long route, but directly with a lower passage of pedestrians and vehicles, keeping the activity alive, the communication of this small local society cut to two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u123	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u124	Mr Colleague, first of all, I should like to answer your initial question. There has so far been no official information about the 800 million estimated by the Greek Government to be included in the Recovery Fund to be rejected with regard to the BOAK. I read the local press too. At the moment I say to you in a clear and unequivocal way that we do not have such information and, if you wish, neither will we have and I mean the part of the rejection. As far as the question of your question is concerned, as you know, the road design of the airport connection to Kastelli with the BOAK has already been planned by the stage of the proletarians of the airport project and the related approved environmental impact study, on the basis of which the concession tender has been conducted and, of course, is included in the subject of the contract of concession of the project. According to the above road design, i.e. the pre-study of the road network, in the wider area of the settlements to which you refer, firstly, the construction of two downwards on the motorway, i.e. road crossings, on which the motorway will be connected with the side road. In particular, the lower crossing is located at a distance of seven hundred meters to the north, i.e. in relation to the Archangelou cemetery at the kilometre of 12+700 and the second at a distance of eight hundred meters to the south compared to the Archangelou cemetery, i.e. at the kilometric position of 13+900. There is also provision for the construction of a side road network on the motorway, which is connected to the existing local network in general, and in particular to the Archangelou cemetery. So, to answer your question, there is a provision for linking the settlements of the Archangelou Community. In fact, I will also table a map in the Minutes to understand where the two readings refer. The connection is therefore made both with the lower crossroads and with the crossroads. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I would therefore like to ask you to transfer to the inhabitants of the Community that the connection between the settlements of Sklaxrochori and Galenian to the settlement of Archangelou and thus not just to the archangel cemetery, but rather to a total course of about a thousand five hundred metres by means of the lower crossings provided for, so on the side of the motorway. Finally, the compared points of choice for the location and the linking nodes were made on the basis of technical criteria and on the basis of the optimal service of the coastal regions, but also, of course, for road safety safeguards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u125	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wish there were no negative answers. Moreover, it is a matter for everyone with an agony to wait for the procedures on the North Road to finally begin. As far as our question now is concerned, Minister, I, either from the papers, from the information services, or from the Community's dear President-in-Office, I have the impression. I have a picture because I'm from there. So we have four villages that have a distance of one hundred and fifty to two hundred to five hundred to the largest. What does the engineering plan say? It says that in order to communicate a village that today has a hundred meters away from the other, it should travel a thousand five hundred meters, go seven hundred meters, find the underground passage, return another seven hundred meters back to meet the other village, which today has fifty meters. Is it or is it not a division of the local community, of the local society, of this living cell? I'm asking for the simple thing. I am not asking for a overthrow of planning, obviously, or anything, because some people did not do their job properly. When you posted the environmental conditions, there was obviously no information from the local community. Some, I don't know who. If it's the municipality, if it's the district, if it's the decentralised or the ministry, I don't know, but some people didn't do their job properly because they didn't make that point. What am I asking? Because the contract that was signed says in - and rightly says - that projects that were not foreseen - because they have been afflicted if all projects and, in particular, micro-projects could be anticipated - can be awarded to the contractor and the additional cost, of course, be borne by the public, I ask that the service study at your own encouragement - because I see that you are in the mood not to cause a problem in this local society - the creation of a lower passover to the existing road study, which will have gone through small vehicles, obviously, but also pedestrians, in order not to disturb local social life, activity and communication. They don't have to make a thousand and a half meters walk by those who today do a hundred meters. You have also visited it when the opening took place, but you obviously did not have the opportunity to go to the settlements. To show a good mood, I ask you to trust what I tell you. I don't want you to answer today. But I would like you to give an order to make this improvement, since it is technically possible. They may tell us that technically it's not possible. But the engineers will tell us if we give them the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u128	Isn't that my request, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u129	Mr Colleague, if someone sees the geography of the region, they really want a broader debate. What mistakes have been made and how environmental conditions have been adopted, too, is another kind of discussion. Here, in order to understand the people who are listening to us, but also our fellow citizens in Crete, we are talking about a project that has already been approved, which has already gone ahead, and I will say what action has been taken on the precursors of the airport. Under no circumstances, even for the studies, does the scholar take them down from his head. There are specific requirements, especially on a motorway - because it is a motorway - and distances between passages are very specific technical. From there on, because you have also referred to issues of flooding and flooding phenomena, I do not think you will disagree that the government has shown very quickly to the recent events that hit Crete. In particular, as far as the area is concerned, work on drilling and research wells in the airport have already been carried out, also drilling and research wells in road connections. Let me make a reference and say to you, Mr Colleague, that with regard specifically to the Municipality of Minoa Pedias after the flooding of November, 1 million euros were allocated and also, in the next few days, 2 million euros will be signed in order to restore various flooding phenomena. The actions taken, the precursor work, I think are well-known and concern, among other things, the development of access for the construction site at the airport and the connection to the rest of the road network, construction work on the construction site, construction of road links, topographic work. I will not go into detail. However, the work of cutting trees also continues in the airport, removing the archaeological sections and opening the road connections to the project site. With regard to road links, topographical work, construction of construction sites and removal of plant and, of course, archaeological research will also be carried out, and that is important. In relation to previous major obligations and the concessionaire’s required project, the process of drawing up airport and road connections has already begun. In particular, geological studies, geotechnical studies, hydrological studies, road precursors, plumbing precursors and functional design of the installation and treatment of liquid waste have been submitted. As regards the contractual obligations for plumbing highway protection studies, you can be sure that any flooding phenomena that occur in the wider region will be taken into account, and of course, if necessary, they will also be included in the planning. I'm coming back to your original question. I told you all the factors would be taken into account. But I want to be clear. The conditions are very specific even for this, otherwise, simple passage. In any case, if there is no problem, it will be taken into account and we see it. So far, I repeat that these two connections exist. Indeed, in relation to the existing local road, it is farther, but from there on, I repeat that it is not that the scholar simply does something that came to him at that time. Surely a major technical work, such as a motorway, can in practice cause some problems as regards everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u130	Thank you too, Minister. The following two topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Eleftherios Economou. We move on to the debate of the eighth under number 523-7-2021 in the second cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Determination of the penitentiary staff and the External Guard of the Booking Stores - Risk for the smooth functioning of the services and the need for immediate assistance'. Mr. Kamin, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in February and March, the penitentiary officials and the external prison guard carried out twenty-four-four-four-four-four repetitive strikes. During this period, only the necessary transfers were made to hospitals and courts, while there were no visits by relatives of prisoners and lawyers to prisons. The staff of both services are faced with very serious and, unfortunately, chronic problems relating to subsistence of services, unpaid work problems, problems with lack of logistics. Even transport cars and in general, the cars of these services are completely outdated. These people have now met with a feeling of fatigue and cancellation, which has serious implications for the functioning of prisons. All this is paradoxical, because the transfer of prison jurisdiction from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection was made to increase security measures. We see that exactly those services responsible for prison security are downgraded and know-how is lost for decades that the staff of these services have accumulated. So I ask you for a multiplier: when should the procedure of notice 6K/2018 be completed and final tables issued? When will organic posts be covered per service and per booking store? How do you finally plan to solve this completely irrational problem of off-takes and permits? In any case, because this problem remains unreserved for years, do you intend to carry out a restorative mechanism by increasing the funds for nighttime and exceptional work compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with new responsibilities for counter-criminal and penitentiary policy, the Ministry of Civil Protection has been called upon to give solutions to a number of issues. These have been stacked for years, causing profound dysfunctional phenomena in the country's penitentiary system. The causes of these chronic pathogens have been identified in time and are now in the phase of their gradual treatment. Top of these issues is the restoration of the effective functioning of the External Guard Agency and of the other penitentiary personnel. As I have already pointed out during the debate and vote in the House of Parliament on 9 December 2020, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection, on the penitentiary system, the Ministry's leadership has made every effort to complete the 6K/2018 proclamation as quickly as possible. As I said at the time, we were already working on a legislative initiative that will allow us to receive some new staff from this competition. Admittedly, he has been delayed unacceptably, but not for reasons of governmental manipulation. I therefore believe that the next short time will again be before this House, this time giving a solution to another obstacle that we have inherited, thus contributing to the proper functioning of the penitentiary centres and, at the same time, putting an end to the agony of hundreds of candidates who are currently watching us, hoping that you too will support this initiative. With regard to the further reinforcement of staff in the detention stores of the country, I have to say that we have already submitted a request for two hundred and eight seats of various categories and branches, which will maneuver the new detention store in Nikiforos Dramas. We expect the Higher Staff Selection Council to issue this notice. In addition, we have already launched similar procedures for issuing a three hundred eighty-eight-hundred-seat notice of permanent staff, various categories and branches for the detention stores in the country. Consequently, our claim to allegedly indifferent to the need for immediate assistance to prisoners and officials for the External Guard Agency is unfounded. You are well aware of the cause of the delay, which is, in fact, a matter of the SAAP. With regard to overtime compensation beyond the five-day, night-time and exceptional days to employees in detention stores, you also know that all the appropriations registered, that is 100% of them, are already available for this purpose. At the same time, a constant effort is being made to strengthen the corresponding budget codes, of course, in the context of existing budgetary possibilities. Finally, particularly on the issue of replacing old service vehicles, I would like to inform you that constant efforts are being made to ensure the necessary funding from national and European resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u134	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Looks like we're living the day of the marmot over here. If I understand correctly, about the delay at 6K/2018 it's the AAP. That's what you're telling us. It's not the government's fault. It's because of S.H.I.E.L.D. You answered me the same thing you had answered me in my recent question about 6K a year later, in 2019, where I had asked the original question. With regard to the dates and dates due, you have told us that the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy has a full picture. With this picture, what's he doing? He's looking at her? The alternative we've told you about the night and the exceptional night compensation you've been considering applying it? Reservation shops need twenty-four hours a day. That is why night work and excellent work are anticipated, and that is why the workers have also accepted this strange scheme of leave and day off. Forty thousand days due to normal leave and about eighty thousand days off. At the same time, we are listening to the closeness of the budget frameworks, but we see the General Secretariat of Crime Policy being gigantic, new addresses and new positions being created, the Ministry of Civil Protection has a large number of staff in order to safeguard universities or public transport, or I do not know what else to hear in prisons constantly that there are no money that there are attempts are being made to find money in the budget. Especially for the external guards, there is now a regime not only fatigue but also cancellation. These people can't actually develop and while there is the n.l.215/2006, which provides for corresponding provisions, and there is a precondition for examination and schooling. I would also like to say to you that both external guards and penitentiary staff feel really humiliated about the lack of equipment and especially about vehicles. The external guards have talked to us about the possibility of replacement of vehicles through an ESRB. Is that true? Minister, in the midst of a pandemic we have also talked about the issue of the decongestion of prisons. We are not saying to get out of barbecue, but you could rethink the possibility of going into decongestion with those who are approaching the end of the sentence, for example, or those who have vulnerable health. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the issue of the depopulation of rural prisons and the question of tightening up the licensing regime you have introduced, penitentiary officials have completely disagreed. We would like to hear at some point a comprehensive plan for prisons and not new prisons that are being created and it is not at all certain that they can work. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issues raised by this topical question are part of the framework within which the government-elected penitentiary policy is to implement. You know, however, that you know very well, Mr Kamine, because you repeatedly come back to 6K, that we are the only ones who are not to blame for this, and we are making superhuman efforts to speed up the process. You are still very well aware that, for the current situation of prisoners and foreign guardians, we also have no responsibility, that is to say, for the high relic that exists, since a few days before the elections, provisions were passed which effectively stripped the prisons, giving the right to municipal police officers who had been transferred back as agency officials, without the necessary provision for their replacement. I would like to stress that our approach is trying to give a comprehensive solution to the direction of upgrading these services and their work. To this end, we are not ignoring or undermining any labelling or proposal that will lead to the resolution of the problems, with which, unfortunately, we are faced with executives working in the area of penitentiary stores. We are acting with clear targeting, with firm steps, seeking the best solutions, always given the existing budgetary possibilities. We are touching issues that have been the constant and constant demands of this workplace, such as their health care, but also their education and training, through appropriate structures and programmes. Let me be a little more specific here. With regard to the constant demand for workers in the prisons and the personnel of the External Guard Service for health care by military hospitals, we have already taken the necessary steps to highlight the issue to the Ministry of National Defence. We expect its final location after our initial positive response. Special attention will also be paid to the training of penitentiaries and external guard staff. The necessary technical preparations in an appropriate building infrastructure have already been completed, as have the supply of the necessary engineering and office equipment. The Academy that will operate for this purpose at the Women's Olive Oil Association will have as its task the provision of basic and lifelong education, training and retraining in collaboration with relevant bodies. A specific working group on the preparation, study and development of a curriculum has already been set up, taking into account European standards and international practices. It is therefore clear from these considerations that neither depreciation nor abandonment of any kind exists for the workers in the penitentiary. Let some people not take a zero approach to the facts of the government, because the facts and facts themselves disprove them. However, this should in no way be interpreted as satisfying us with the needs that still exist in the services of detention stores. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way with realism. Despite the important steps we have taken, there is still enough left to ensure the high level of operation and effectiveness that we aim to achieve for these services, which I have to say were totally abandoned in the past. Perhaps, at another time it would be worth having an in-depth debate about the situation that has existed so many years in the country's penitentiary system. But we have faith in our powers, we have a plan, responsibility and proper human resources in the penitentiary shops, which, with self-determination and a high sense of duty, contributes every day to achieve a great deal and I assure you that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the debate of the 15th under No 536/8-3-2021 on the second time question by the Member of Parliament of the Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. George Mulkiotis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Adequate protection for prisoners and prisoners of the country'. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'd like half a second before I'm placed. The 6K is the achilles heel of your ministry. You're running now. Indeed, it was a loose end, but you are now ruling. This 6K cannot with any consequences it has to continue and create so many problems and given that they are successful and remain in an endless state. We need to find a solution. What you said is not a government responsibility, and it is another kind of responsibility, does not say anything, because the tungsten continues and the problem exists. I am sorry for the speech, but it is an issue that I am speaking on and I am carrying what I see, and I have a duty to say it in order to take it into account. Minister, we are talking about an urgent need for adequate protection of prisoners and prisoners in our country. Since March 2020 you are aware that the Group of the Change Movement has repeatedly stressed the need for measures to protect detainees and officials from the coronary. Among these, Minister, the need for direct decongestion with specific criteria has been stressed, as prisoners in Greek prisons are now far beyond the maximum tonnage. In some prisons today, Mr President, there are three-storey beds and three prisoners live in cells under eight square meters and I refer to Alikarnassos. It has also been pointed out, Minister, that the aid with medical staff from detention shops for reasons of urgency and of coverage of the major deficiencies, which are observed. Also, throughout the pandemic, it has been stressed that timely and adequate measures are needed to protect health and the smooth functioning of prisons with an urgent need to ensure early vaccination for both officials and prisoners in order not to have a explosion of cases with which there will certainly be a negative impact on public health, but also on the burden of the National Health System. We have the opinion - and I think you cannot say anything else, and you are adopting it - that the protection of officials and prisoners and health protection and safety in prisons are certainly a prerequisite for decent and appropriate conditions for the overcrowding, prevention and rational distribution of detainees, administrative reorganisation and the adequacy and upgrading of human resources. As also Minister, the government has so far been in a situation which is not satisfactory in the sense that there are major uncertainties which are negative in the whole process. And you are asking - and I conclude, Mr President - what is your immediate plan to put an end to the negligence that exists to curb the pandemic in prisons, but also to protect, as you are due, prisoners and officials? Is the proposal of the Movement of Change, is the adoption in your planning of this proposal even part of it? And last question: What is your immediate planning for prisons with regard to the necessary coordination for the gradual vaccination of healthcare staff, prisoners and other staff? Is there still some kind of drawing and timetable? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u140	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a very brief reference to 6K. We have made superhuman efforts to overcome the problems and weaknesses of the ASAP in carrying out psychological and psychological tests and athletics. Fortunately, with initiatives taken in November last year, these have been overtaken, and so I announced before that we are in a position very soon to resolve this issue in consultation with the AACC at least as far as we are concerned to start recruiting staff from those tables that have been judged at least temporarily before they are finalised. Otherwise, if we did not take initiatives too, the delay I can say would still be too great. There is no doubt, however, that in recent months, particularly weeks, we have been going through a particularly painful period of pandemic testing. The increased readiness of the entire state mechanism to deal with the high daily number of cases observed should be a reassurance factor, but not a reassurance factor. In particular, for the detainees, as well as for workers in detention stores in the country, the Ministry of Civil Protection in constant collaboration with the co-authorities and bodies responsible has been implementing a comprehensive health protection plan, which is in full development and I would like to give you today's picture. We have forty-three employees who are confirmed COVID cases from the point of view of employees in the prisons as a whole in the country and about ten and a half thousand prisoners today have forty-three prisoners who are positive, confirmed cases in the coronary. We had the opportunity a few months ago to discuss extensive issues of coronary protection in the prison shops in the country where, on the basis of the timely question by your colleague, Mr Kamin, I have provided numerous data and documents in this House from which one can easily find that claims about allegedly criminal negligence and inability to intercept the pandemic in detention stores by the government do not correspond to reality. So before I refer to a number of points in this topical question, I would like to ask you to study the documents, which I made available to this House on 13-11-2020, containing a number of elements which I believe will be a source of substantial information to you on the initiatives and actions taken by the Ministry of Civil Protection with a view to ensuring as fully as possible health protection in the area of penitentiary stores. With regard to a number of individual issues raised through this debate, I should like to point out the following. Under these extremely difficult circumstances, the proper operation of detention stores is ensured through the continuous and unrestricted compliance with the specific protocol on measures to prevent and manage possible cases of CIVID -19 in detention stores, as well as the uninterrupted vigilance and information of the General Secretariat for Crime Policy. The completeness of the initiatives can be seen if you consider the individual sanitary measures applied from the first moment which extend to a wide range and are enriched when and where required always in accordance with the EGE's instructions. For example, I mention some: Intensification of cleanliness and disinfection work in all detention areas, public and staff workplaces. To carry out decontamination, detoxification and mysterious work by specialized workshops. Procurement and distribution of sanitary material. It conducts coronary detection diagnostic checks. I would like to dwell on this, as a lasting effort is actually being made to all detention shops where through the continuous COVID detection diagnostic checks -19 to prisoners and workers, we have been able in time to detect any incidents and to carry out what is needed to protect both the same and the general population. By Tuesday 9-3, twenty - one thousand and ten thousand of these four hundred checks had been carried out for prisoners and employees respectively. On the question of overcompensation in the penitentiaries, I would like to assure you that all the measures available are being examined and used for the rational distribution of prisoners to protect their lives, their health and their smooth reintegration. However, as I have already pointed out in this Chamber, the decongestion that is presented as the most appropriate solution for the effective prevention of pandemic in detention stores can only be described as one of the parameters of the issue, which, of course, will not suddenly solve the problems of pandemic in these structures by magic. I would like to conclude my first place with the most important vaccination issue. Let's see some numbers. By the end of February, thirty - eighty - eight prisoners were vaccinated and thirty - four employees were vaccinated. It is worth noting that there are thirty two health officials working in the detention stores in the country whose figures are shown in the table I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, submits for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would also like to stress that, in the context of our initiatives on early inclusion in the programme of vaccination of detainees and prisoners in prisons, a document on the subject has already been sent to the competent bodies, which I shall put at your disposal. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Finally, given that they are in very high-risk pandemic distribution structures, we have asked the National Committee for Vaccines to join the mechanism of supplementing vaccination from unseen doses of vaccines, which is examining it on the basis of scientific and epidemiological criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u142	Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all I keep for '6K' and I and my colleague, to whom you replied earlier, my friend George Kamines, your answer and we hope to see some results in this regard. You have not responded, of course - and you have avoided answering - if even partially you may adopt the reasoned and costly and complete proposal from the Change Movement in relation to the question that has been asked and which I shall table in the Minutes. For the first question, Minister, it is well known that prison capacity is ten thousand, seventy-five people. On March 1, 2021, the population of the detainees was eleven thousand, three hundred and fifty. This doesn't seem a big difference to some. In practice, it means that according to your data, twenty-three out of thirty-four prisons are overcrowded, with thirteen of them approaching 150% of tonnage, some of them going far beyond 200% and two prisons surpassing 200%. And I'm talking about Tripoli, Volos in the youth prison. I don't know, if I'm wrong, you can fix me or we can fix the data together. The prison penitentiary staff now has repeatedly been - and you know that, Minister - in favour of decongestion and especially now in the midst of the pandemic. You said there's overpaid stores. How does the government move, the Ministry on this subject of overcompensation? The fact that there are findings at this juncture seems to me to be a great luxury. In what sense do I say it? What we need is measures and instruments that should be taken immediately, perhaps yesterday. The question of any consequences of overcompensation is of major importance. You are adopting this, I believe, without appropri­ations. But it is a matter and it is a major issue. For reasons of proper functioning of the prisons, and particularly in the middle of the pandemic, the penitentiary officials, Minister, were opposed to recent legislation that you adopted with Law 4760/2020, which clears the rural prisons and the prisoners return to the closed prisons, which these closed overpopulations already have. So, is there such a contradiction? What logic can there be in this? For reasons of proper functioning of prisons, the officials themselves - you know - opposed the strictness of the regime of regular leave to prisoners, which was also laid down and legislated by the same law, and you know that very well. In relation to our second question, you mentioned some information on vaccinations. In fact, there are some new data from the point of view of what was up to now, which we are taking into account. But, Minister, as far as the number of vaccinations and cases is concerned, when you gave a reply a while ago, on 2 March 2021, you referred to four hundred coronary detainees and a hundred forty employees. These vaccinations do not, of course, concern us with vaccinations involving people from other ministries, such as doctors from the Ministry of Health. We are specifically interested in you the staff and the prisoners who are in your jurisdiction. You have said in my reply of 2 March 2021 that the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy is in constant contact with managers of all detention centres and the administrations of the health regions in which they are located. That, Minister, what does it mean? Is it the managers' responsibility to find a way to vacate prisoners and staff? A clarification on this matter would be very important for this particular case. I also call again on the same answer - you say that the Secretary-General had asked the Secretary-General for Health and the National Committee for Vaccines to include workers from detention centres in the mechanism for supplementing vaccination for unavailable doses of vaccines against COVID, in fact noting that the detention shops in the country are particularly high-risk structures. Yes, it is! What answer is there and have you taken on this subject in relation to the question of the Secretary-General? What answer in particular have we got? We do not know it, and given the answer you have received, what steps are you going to take on these matters? Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief in this position. As far as the issue of vaccinations is concerned, of course, I told you that we were in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the relevant Scientific Committee and the National Committee for Vaccines. Based on the protocols and priorities it sets out, the issue of penitentiary stores has also been included. You see, however, that - and I understand your agony, as it is a concern for all of us for a sensitive group that lives in difficult conditions - we have kept - I would say - at least so far the coronary outside prisons through a cooperation and through the measures that we have taken in time. And that is not the issue of decongestion, which you have repeatedly and promptly raised, what will actually ensure prisons from the coronary, because prisons are open, they receive visitors, they are prisoners and the external guardians who go and in any case, there are issues that enable the Coronary to enter prisons. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But you really must recognise that all this time we have kept prisons at a very satisfactory level, with superhuman efforts made by prisoners and officials, with all the conditions in which Mr Kamines referred, with the lack of staff and a number of difficulties actually. We must also thank them publicly for this offer, since we have kept prisons on a satisfactory level in terms of dealing with the pandemic. And that is what we all have to recognise. The protection of the health of detainees and workers in prisons is undoubtedly at the top of the priorities for the government and, in particular, for the Ministry of Civil Protection. Every day months now, for more than a year now, we have focused all our efforts to keep the penitentiary system up against this unprecedented pandemic. Much has been achieved in a short time. There is no doubt that important steps are still left to the forefront of vaccination. In cooperation with the National Committee for Vaccines we await its relevant decisions and directives, as is the case for every special group in our country. Our policy on this burning issue is far from consistent, consistent and leaves no question unanswered, thus dismantling the slightest suspicion of some. The evidence I mentioned to you today confirms what we are talking about. I would therefore ask you to follow closely the question of the protection of prisoners and workers in detention centres, each of us contributing creatively to the necessary realism to the specificity of this whole effort to protect the life and health of those who live or work in prison. We owe this to the prisoners, we owe it to the staff who work there, but also to their relatives outside who fight for the insiders. Finally, I mention what I said at the outset, however, that the issue of their security against the coronary pandemic is a high priority for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now entering the next topical question, the second with number 519/5-3-2021, a topical question from the First Cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restart the procedure and new nomination for the position of President of the Supervisory Board of the National Medical Helped Reproduction Authority". Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. I came back here to take off the mask, because I can't talk to her. Mr Minister, this is the second time I have asked a question on this matter. The previous one was the Minister of Education, who answered and didn't answer me. A very serious problem has arisen and you know that, Minister. I do not see, however, a month ago that has passed since my previous question to do something to solve it. I'll talk to you soon. On 22 October, using a well-known tactic of the state of staff, you changed the Board of Directors of the National Helped Reproduction Authority and renamed it to “Survey Council”. You've changed the number of members. This was the way to dismiss the administration that we had designated, led by the excellent professor of Mavary - Gynecology of Attica Hospital, Mrs Karadaridis, from the President of the Authority, in order to bring your chosen one, as shown in the course. You voted for a law that had no transitional provision and from 22-10 we do not have a National Helped Reproduction Authority in order to answer or cover or validate any citizen's request...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Polakis, excuse me for interrupting you. If you're well enough, put the mask on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u149	I said at first, Mr President, that I came back here so that I could take the mask off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u150	In your dentistry, come to Step and speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u151	I'm at a distance. I know them well, Mr President. Don't worry. I'm more than two metres from my closest colleague. Don't worry. We know medical and much better than many of you in the Committee on Limitology. We've played with heavy suffering, we haven't seen them in our dreams. You have therefore left more than two thousand demands since, which have not been answered. Welcome to 22 January, with the meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, Mr. Successful Deputy Professor of the University of Athens as a new Chairman of the Board of Supervisors. As it proved, however, during the meeting, and with the information we later presented as members of the SYRIZA Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency, Mr. Brachnis has lost his post as deputy professor at the university, with the final decision of the Administrative Court of Athens on 2258/2020 - there were two other decisions before - and with the corresponding decisions of the Council of State, which are directly applicable. You saw this, and Mr. Gerapetritis, who was also his lawyer in this court dispute, and you did not go to the FEC to designate him as the president of the Authority. I asked the Minister of Education whether they would implement the decision, which is immediately enforced, to leave the university. However, one month later, you have not reopened the procedure to appoint a new president of the Authority, regardless of where it will leave. Because the decision by the university is applicable, it is clear that it cannot be defined. As far as I'm concerned, there's more than two thousand requests that can't be answered. Couples, i.e. they cannot get funding from the EEAS in order to proceed with the in vitro fertilisation needed to have a child. Also, another ridiculous event occurred. By the Authority's headlines from October 22nd, the Commission's website and email fell the day before yesterday, with the risk of a lot of files being lost, because the domain name was not paid. This is not an effective state, that is the uselessness of the state in the final state. I want you to tell us what you're going to do if you start a procedure to set a replacement. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u152	The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Kontozamanis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr Proud. Mr Polakis, with regard to the first part of your question about changing the institutional framework for the committee of the Medical Aided Reproduction Authority, you were here too, I think it was exhausted at the January meeting where we heard the new Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the new authority. I am not a legal person, but I understand the content of your question that it is based on a wrong basis. I say this because Mr Branchni's election has been cancelled, and he is at the stage of the Deputy Professor, which is the prerequisite for his election as president at the National Reproduction Assistance Authority. The act of appointment as an alternate professor has not been revoked or annulled and bears the presumption of innocence. The most impressive thing to come out of your question is that you raise the question of his election, although you know that his final election had been claimed by the Gabroglou Act. And you come and renounce us for the impact of a decision that judges the outcome of the interpretation of that law. Therefore, let me say that Mr Rocket fulfils all the formal qualifications in order to be President of this principle. There is a positive opinion from the competent committee of Parliament and we are waiting for the EVC to be issued so that this authority can take up its duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Polakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Contozamani, please listen carefully. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm about to get my postdoctoral degree. Do you understand what you told me before? If a man is in high school and doesn't have a primary school, I'm looking at if he's in high school and not if he went through primary school. That's what you're telling me about Mr. Rock. As far as Mr Brachni is concerned, his election has been cancelled in the post of the assistant professor. Don't tell me about Gabroglou's law. It was an amendment concerning the composition of the selective bodies of 2012-2013, which gave a solution to a number of people who had been afflicted on this issue and was caught by Mr. Rock, who had lost his place at that time and thus returned. An appeal has been made by one of his co-signatories and finals, which must be final and enforceable by the university. Because Mr. Rock was not elected deputy professor, he evolved as well as I know it. What you're saying answers the Council of State and the Athens Administrative Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u156	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Contozamani, I've seen them very thoroughly. That's right. I'm telling you this. If, because Mr. Geraparitis is his lawyer, after a lot of thought you decided to make him the president of the Authority, why haven't you made him a month ago? If you finally made the political decision to make it, you should know that any decision taken will not apply, on the basis of final and applicable judicial decisions. It will be a challenge to respect for justice. You were accusing us of things like this, but I see that, in order to define a chosen one for certain reasons, you do not see anything before. There are final decisions that kick him out of the university. Here's another representative, because every decision he makes won't apply and there'll be a new blockage of the National Reproduction Authority. One final word, because the situation is getting too deep and I will tell you once again. I have told you many times and it has to do with the scientific issue that we have already raised. Minister, Coreper approved the antibody treatment. Coreper approved it, too, beyond the FDA. Why don't you bring her here? The Scientific Committee for Infectiouss has yet to make a decision on this? Doesn't he talk about it? She doesn't know? Isn't she on her horizon? You also gave Mr. Mitsotakis a few things to say before. I know very well because I ate my life and I'm glad we made the system with this traffic. Since you have a thousand four hundred beds, Mr. Kontozamani, can you explain to me why at the moment we're talking about, now, the EAW list is a hundred and four people here in Athens? Would you explain to me why no COVID incident that they accepted in the private sector yesterday morning, until an hour ago, was not transferred? It's blocked by the C.E.D. He can't carry them. We are leading to dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u158	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u159	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u160	We are leading to dramatic situations. Turn around. Here, too, shows the thing Petsas said that "we'd run out of money if we were to build units". One of the first things I said last March was about the ITHs. And at the moment it seems the insufficiency and poorness, which is not being saved. It is not saved, Mr. Kontozamani, by going out and saying that I have a thousand 200, a thousand, a thousand five hundred, because you sum up private ICU beds, burn unit beds, but they cannot nurse these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u161	Finish it, Mr. Polakis. You've left the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u162	Don't get upset, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u163	I'm not agitated at all. There is barely anyone else getting upset here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u164	I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u165	The Bureau must always be calm and always calm. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer the question. Mr Polakis, you have raised other issues outside the question. I have answers, but I would like to remain on the specific question you have raised and we are also at your disposal to answer the following questions. You told us we were spending someone in high school without having been in high school before. I would remind you that for your days you have appointed commander to a hospital without a degree. And the commander was appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u167	Who, Mr. Contozamanis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u168	Nice, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u169	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u170	Don't interrupt, please. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u171	You're lying! He had a degree and he was appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u172	They're not writing what you're saying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u173	His file didn't find any other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u174	Postgraduate said he had it, and it seemed after...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Polakis, don't interrupt. You're not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u176	All right, I'll fix it, Mr. Polakis. It was the study title.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u177	This is parliamentary control, Mr Polakis. The Member is asking and the Minister is answering. Please! Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u178	The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u179	Well, who's going to high school without going to high school?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u180	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u181	Be more careful when you talk. Although you're predictable, it doesn't matter. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say that you are faithfully following the word'repetition is a mother of learning'. But to help this repetition, someone must want to hear. Otherwise, repetition doesn't help anything. I'm sorry to say, you don't want to hear. Why did you ask Mr. Syrigos, the Deputy Minister of Education, and Mr. Syrigos replied that the decision of the Administrative Court is solely about the election of Mr. Rock as an assistant professor and not about his election - it was not a development - as an alternate professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u183	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Polakis, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u185	Minister, don't answer. Keep asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u186	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u187	You say it, you hear it. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Polakis, you want to say yours all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u189	Minister, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u190	You did the same thing in my case when you went out with titles on the internet and said about new poster workers in my office, who were the same associates I had as State Secretary for Health. And you should know because you've served as Deputy Minister. You're just interested in creating impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u191	Come on, Minister, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u192	Therefore, I repeat, Mr Rocky was legally appointed President of the Authority. You also have a reply from the Ministry of Education. I think this is an end, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u193	We continue with the sixth question under number 512/1-32021. First question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Athens Hospital of Heidari. The saturation of the ITH now excludes patients from rescue.’ And it will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Deputy Minister, the situation in Attica has been discussed several times. It's now reached the unprepared. You have managed to convert the largest hospital in the Balkans to a hospital exclusively COVID. Until a few days ago over a third of the beds the hospital could have been given for COVID, there are sixty-seven patients in ranch and trucks, an entire hospital ward is in isolation due to extensive contamination of patients and its staff with COVID. Thirty-three patients are treated in the thirty-three MET COVID beds, while of the remaining ten you leave only three beds of the overall ITH at the Infusion Unit. At the same time, you make a general on-site hospital every four days. And with all this, you call for great success. As you say 'we have done very well, better than other countries'. What we are saying is always propaganda and opposition. Let me remind you that in Greece we have, beyond COVID deaths, an increase of six thousand deaths from your management in 2020. Remind me of the Medical Center that entered, supposedly, the administration of the public, through your agreements with the private sector, that literally to get someone in there must have been discharged. It needs to have a good level of consciousness of GCS, to be available, to be armodynamically stable, to have satisfactory oxygenation. Desirable α/α chest without radiological deterioration of the disease during monitoring, etc. It really has to be in a state of discharge. With your great success, Mr. Kontozamani, the gaps in skilled, doctors are five thousand and twenty-five thousand to the rest of the staff. Also, even today, the PCR COVID test is not prescribed. We really want you to tell us when you are going to start dealing with the epidemic, because so far it seems that your fear is not to strengthen the public system and you cannot privatise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, it's finally the first time you've admitted publicly that the government and the Ministry of Health have a plan to deal with the pandemic, because so far you accused us of not having a blind approach. Of course, this is because you are trying to justify your opposition presence in Parliament, competing with SYRIZA on an equal footing. You characterize this design as dangerous and to justify this designation you resort to inaccurateness. Irregularity First: Closure of the General Method. It's not true, because if it were, it wouldn't be forty-three patients today. We converted spaces to the Attican Hospital Intensive Treatment Units in the exclusive hospital of coronary patients. Patients are also in need of intensive care in a specially designed environment. For patients who do not suffer from coronary, we committed intensive beds to private clinics in the context of the wider cooperation and involvement of the private sector in support of the National Health System. Irregularity Two: Cancel serious surgery. It's not true, of course. We have said this from the outset, from the start, from the first phase of the pandemic, and we have made it clear, through specific directives, to all the structures of the National Health System. On the basis of these instructions, all emergency and serious, scheduled or emergency surgery shall be implemented, as before, without delays and delays. In "Attica" no radiotherapy appointment has been cancelled and no cardiac surgery or other incident has been left without treatment. All incoming patients in the Emergency Department are handled. Pressure over recent years - we all know - is great and it is true that there is fatigue throughout the hospital staff. This is not just the 'Attica'. Throughout the National Health System they have exaggerated themselves and it makes sense to have fatigue. You mentioned, Mr Arsenis, the Workers' Association, which has indeed made announcements and complaints, in which the administration of the hospital has responded sufficiently. And I don't just mean through written announcements. What I mean to say is that the answers are given by actions, by the daily management of the constant pressure that the hospital receives from the pandemic, by acts implemented by doctors, nurses and all staff in the hospital. And "Attica" is, once again, the first-line hospital in the battle to curb the pandemic. That is why great weight and pressure have been burdened. Of the total of sixty - seventy hospital beds have been placed for the exclusive hospitalization of patients with a coronary hundred - five, or less, than 1/3 that you report. Intensive beds are a total of forty-eight, of which forty-three are available for the exclusive treatment of coronary patients. This management of ever-increasing cases requires particular emphasis on addressing them. The development of pandemic - and keep this - has certainly differentiated the patient mixture and the immunological spectrum, resulting today in 40% to 45% of the patients on the hospital's on-call days in the Emergency Department being patients with coronary. And the hospital's operational plan is customized in this direction. In conclusion, I will once again mention that cooperation with the private sector exists and has been delimited within a specific framework, which ensures the targeted and effective support of the National Health System. In any case, we must all recognise that the National Health System is one. The state and the private sector meet in order for all together to fight the pandemic. The assistance of hospitals with staff is continuous. Especially for the "Attica" hospital we proceeded to the recruitment of assistant staff, thirty-six doctors, eighty nurses, forty-two other staff. In 2020 there were twenty-three permanent staff posts for various specialities and fourteen new posts in the 2021 notice. Strengthening the health system with new, modern intensive treatment units is important. More than two hundred and fifty new beds in the public hospitals have been built and operated hundred and fifty beds that we received without any possibility of operating in July 2009 - whether there was no staff or equipment - so today we have reached the numbers that we all know and, indeed, have successfully met the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Minister, you will continue in your second. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, you once told us about the more doubling of the IF beds, and now you're admitting it's around the seven hundred twenty IF beds. Five hundred sixty was before the pandemic. If we put the 50 of this House and two - three sponsorships, that's what happened, that's what you've been doing for so long. 8 million worth of this House, 8 million. Didn't you have 8 million? During the summer, with the grace period you had, didn't you have 8 million to give to make a IF? Didn't you have 160 million to make a thousand ICUs? Do you know how much it costs every day, quarantine, lockdown, with the economy closed? That's about it. You have been fascinated - with strategy, of course, it has not been accidental - the cost of a quarantine-day economy, and all this in order not to strengthen the public health system. And now you're moving on to tell us what? That you're working together and taking over the burdens of the private sector? How? With the Perimeter Medical Center really want to be discharged by the patient, can the patient prove that he has nothing to do with getting him to hospital? I'll repeat it. Calls for a good level of consciousness, to be available, to be blood-strengthed, without the use of vasoconstrictants or inotropics, to have satisfactory oxygenation, desirable the CT chest, a/a chest without radiological deterioration of the disease during monitoring, ABGs before transfer, as well as a copy of the complete medical record from the clinic where it is intersected, as well as a communication phone for clarifications. These are the elements requested. Of course you hired all over this crisis three hundred doctors - these are the real numbers - when the gaps are five thousand. As for how you deal with doctors who denounce this image, this unthinkable, Mr. Catastass loses his job - although you have no radiologists - and yet you fired those who disturb you, ESA for the rest of you and, of course, unpaid overtime, work overcoming, etc. But what you really have to explain at some point is what happened with these six thousand deaths. In order to break down the National Health System, to satisfy your obsession with the privatisation plans for public health, we have now arrived to have, apart from the deaths of COVID, six thousand more people who died than they had died in 2019. Just justify these six thousand people at some point because we lost them. For your policies, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I think you're confused and ignored. First, do the sum properly and see how many new intensive care units have been made in the health system and how many have been added to the national health system in order to deal with the incidents of the coronary. Secondly, you are talking about privatization of the National Health System and indeed, in the midst of a pandemic. Tell me which fellow citizen paid us or paid to be treated during the pandemic period. Please take care of what you say. You referred to a specific clinic in Peristeri, which will work under the scientific supervision of Attica. We all know that there is pressure, what should we do? We'll work together, of course. You referred to the gaps that exist. We've been through this before. More than eight thousand ancillary staff hired, two and a half thousand permanent staff in notices. Most of the thousands of four hundred and twenty-three places that we opened in 2020 have entered service and continue, notices of the ADP in order to fill gaps in other staff and in nursing, and of course significant reinforcement in the part of covering the major gaps in the nursing sector. Attican Hospital, like all the structures of the National Health System, provide high-level services throughout the pandemic, from the beginning of the pandemic to the present day, and we will continue to do so and we will succeed. You referred to deaths. I do not want to open a debate which, I think, has been exhausted within the framework of the National Representation. Unfortunately, deaths have occurred in our country from a coronary, as in other countries, and certainly when one sees the markers of death in our country and compares them to the rest of the countries we are at a much better fate. But let's not play with death. The point is to see how many lives we have saved and how many of our fellow humans have succeeded in overcoming this battle they fought with the pandemic. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the second question by number 3669-29-1-2021 from the references - questions by Mr. Heraklion of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Scheduling of vaccinations against COVID -19 in the four prefectures of Crete". The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have debated again and I think it is acceptable, to a lesser or greater extent, that if the national vaccination plan had suffered the suffering of discussion, dialogue and better processing, it would have fewer mistakes. It is indicative that, while we asked a question about mid-January about the vaccination programme, it is now mid-March to discuss it. It is a matter of how you understand the proposals, questions and parliamentary control of opposition. I wonder. I say this in advance because some of the questions may have been answered by the act, positive or negative. So we asked: What is the planning of the general population's vaccination campaign by age group and category, with the corresponding timing for each of the four prefectures of Crete, for Crete? How many of the anticipated vaccination centres in Crete have been activated? When will the vaccinations begin in the health centres of the island? Is there any provision for mobile workshops, for units of older or remote mountainous areas? What do scientists estimate of increased mutation cases in Crete and their consequences? It was those days that started the problem in Crete. Finally, what action are you going to take - a general question - at European level to see how Russian and other vaccines will be incorporated into the European market and, if it is true that some European Union countries, for some vaccines that came after, make bilateral agreements, not necessarily within the framework of the European Union? If that's true, what have we done as a country on this level? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu, for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, you referred to the mistakes of the national vaccination plan. Let me say that this plan was drawn up under the guidance of the National Committee for Vaccines, which consists of scientists who know how to form, how to plan vaccination campaigns. If we look at the vaccination programmes in the other countries of Europe, you will see that there are no great differentiations. Our national vaccination plan for the population is complete, perfect and has so far evolved smoothly. In this context - we have said so many times - through the European agreement - I will also refer to the Chinese and Russian vaccines - we have managed to ensure doses for the whole population. Because you have referred to vulnerable groups of the population that are unable to move to a vaccination centre, we have said that there is a solution in which we will move, so that we can reach the last point in the country to vaccinate our last fellow citizen. Now let me say this. By 10 March, within the framework of our vaccination programme, 1,221 million fellow citizens have been vaccinated, and priority vaccination teams are clearly described in the draft published. I have referred to the common European supply of vaccines that has enabled us to ensure doses for the whole population. Greece is expected to receive at least 7 million doses for the second quarter of 2021 and more than 10 million doses in the second half of 2021. Therefore, there is adequacy in vaccines and we do not need to resort to Russian and Chinese. We do not use this for one more reason, because they are not approved by the competent European regulatory authority, which is the European Medicines Agency. As far as Crete is concerned, there are already forty - twenty - two vaccination centres, including several health centres, and seventy - sixty - two forty - two vaccinations have been carried out. As of 16 March, seven other vaccination lines will be operated, i.e. a total of forty-seven vaccination lines in twenty-nine vaccination centres with a daily capacity of two and a half thousand vaccinations a day. The confirmed vaccination date in Crete today stands at a hundred twenty-seven thousand seven hundred fifty-two. You know very well that we have three vaccines available today, and since April 2021 we will also have the fourth approved vaccine, that of Johnson&Johnson. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Health, in full coordination with the Ministry of Digital Governance and Citizen Protection, implements the national operational plan transparently and fully, taking the measures necessary for transparency and for the priority of vaccinations and our priority is to defend the health of all Greeks and, of course, to vaccinate the entire population. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, it is a different thing for the vaccination centres and for different routes. I think it is understandable, but it is deliberately confusing. But the essence is what? The breakdown of the gradual incorporation of vaccination centres into the system with the initial forecast of the number shall not be made with a geographical balance. That is our criticism. So you didn't put mountainous and remote areas in the system at the outset, but you're coming back to do it. In yesterday's seven communications - under pressure and the question I believe, please do not say to me, and that is something positive, because it shows that even in this way a parliamentary intervention is being taken into account - you have put Viano, the mountain area with the law, you have put the Anogias, you have put the Sfakia. Well, shouldn't that have been in the first place? But you left off the Lassithi Plateau, Germaidou Health Center again. You left Cantano out. Look at the design. There's a geographical imbalance from the beginning. It is covered by the seven centres that you have now announced yesterday to a large extent by this imbalance. But it's still, I'm telling you, two. See the Lassithi Plateau that is isolated and distant and also Cantano. Cantanos has a problem. There are other needs, but I am thinking above all of those that are ringing a red bell. It can't be done. I now come to the subject of the programme. First of all, I didn't say it was wrong, I said that mistakes would be less. I'm keeping an eye on what I'm saying, and I know what I'm saying. That'd be less. And don't tell me that there are no mistakes, because everything would be perfect, but it's not result. There are problems and they cannot be solved. It'd be less, I said. But you thought you were responding to others. You have the same tricks and you answer in the same way to others. I asked you another question and I criticized you. The other day, I told you about the exceptional vaccinations, about the ruffles. You told me they were single and few. Even though you had to tell me you were going to send them to the D.A., so we wouldn't have any more. You saw a post again today, the Mayor of the Old Faliro. Here's the post. I'm going to stand on something more massive, and I want an explanation convincing, Minister. On 21 February you gave the House information on a question from Mrs Giannakopoulou concerning vaccinations until then. This includes, among other things, a number of some fifty thousand vaccinated sixteen to sixty-four, meaning with priority 'Astra Zeneca', of which nine thousand three hundred seventeen have done the second dose, which means what? At the ages of sixty to sixty-four have made the second dose nine thousand three hundred seventeen people, so they have done 'Pfizer', they have not done 'Astra Zeneca' on February 15, second dose. But they don't include health personnel, military personnel, police officers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u207	He's in health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u208	Uh, how's it in the sanitary, since the sanitary's underneath? First of all, health didn't go on age. So that's not the case. If that's the way it is and you give me the evidence, yeah. But you gave that up and there are nine thousand people who seem to have entered another charge. If they have to come in, of course they have to. But if you'll excuse me, he expects people in his turn patiently, I told you again. I want a commitment that any cases you're arresting - and you have proved that you have the system to locate them - will be sent to the prosecutor. Who? Not those who are necessarily vaccinated, but those officials who do so. He said earlier, Mr. Economou, that he has sent you lists from the external prisons, the penitentiary officers and the others to be vaccinated. And I'm telling you, when we have vaccines that are supposed to be lost, why don't you call from these lists, only the superintendents enter the lists? Why? What for? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, I answer one of your questions. You referred to the gradual opening up of the vaccination centres. But that's how it has to be. We don't have all the vaccines at our disposal from day one. And we have said it before: Vaccine centres open as many vaccines as we receive and open age groups and close appointments. What do you want? For communication reasons, should we open up all the vaccination centres and not have vaccines? Of course it's going on gradually. Specific vaccination centres, as you know, will also be opened in Crete in the next few days and there is also planning for Candano. It is not possible to have a vaccination centre in every corner of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u211	In mountainous areas lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u212	You know very well that this is a huge business. It's a complicated plan. We have different vaccines to manage under different storage and handling conditions. I'm sure there are difficulties. However, we said that we would reach the maximum production capacity of the system and could increase it and open up other vaccination centres if necessary, since the vaccines we have increased over the next period, so that we can serve more people. As far as the sixty-four age period is concerned, I tell you that it is not nine thousand out of order. Obviously it is - and we can give it to you - the health staff, which has been vaccinated. You're asking me for evidence when you don't tell them in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u213	You submitted them to the House on 21 February.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u214	You said there were mistakes. They may have been recorded there and the painting has a mistake. But I'm telling you, it's not nine thousand out-of-series vaccinations. It's the health personnel who's been vaccinated and entered this charge. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u215	In ‘REALNEWS’ it was published.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u216	It is the evidence we have tabled in the committee's minutes. It's Mrs. Giannakopoulou's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u217	Yeah, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u218	Maybe a painting has a mistake, I'm telling you, or it didn't have a clarification. But I tell you there are no nine thousand. It's the sanitary staff that was vaccinated. You mentioned four, five cases in your previous question for those who were vaccinated off-line. I tell you it's 20 to twenty-five. It's not nine thousand. Even fifty or a hundred to be, this percentage is minimal in all vaccinations. And I told you that there are the control mechanisms in order to see what has been done and of course the sanctions in question are being imposed. We have said that we are clear on this issue, as we have made clear that such sanctions will be imposed. Both the National Transparency Authority and the systems that carry out daily checks and the computer systems that we have developed enable us to identify such cases and we can identify them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u219	Next is the fifth question under number 3604-27-1-2021 question of the circle of petitions by the Member of the Evia Parliament - Evangelos Apostolos, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Chalkida Hospital faces a huge problem of staffing in medical and nursing staff". And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, before I mention the enormous problem of staffing to medical and nursing staff at the Chalkida Hospital, I would like you to answer the fate of the bomb you launched with your well-known decision to suddenly increase, without any design, without any protection of the CVID -19 beds of the Chalkida Hospital from sixty-four to sixty-four, and even when large hospitals in Athens do not exceed fifty. In fact, for the immediate implementation of the decision, they were asked to empty beds and even surgical patients with the responsibility of conducting the EKAV in other hospitals, public and private, Athens. The huge turmoil caused by the initiative, by your unprecedented turbulence, made you freeze the decision. I ask you: will you finally implement it by turning the General Hospital of Chalkida into a hospital in COVID -19, leaving all residents without treatment, but also in neighbouring areas of the country? Answer and clarify your position. At the same time, of course, you are putting at risk not only the incidents in need of emergency aid, but also the care of the CIVID -19 incidents in the hospital, as there is no provision for any assistance with appropriate staff in the already few hospital forces. Minister, the workers are making great efforts to operate with the current formation. But you have literally exalted them. They can't stand it anymore. Finally support them with the necessary recruitments to medical and nursing staff. The needs at the moment are many. Only the CIVID -19 simple hospitalization and intensive care unit to respond need thirty more people for medical and nursing personnel. We are clear, Minister: of course, we are not against the treatment of coronary cases at the Chalkida Hospital, but we cannot discuss a decision - I repeat - which threatens to turn the Chalkida Hospital into an exclusive hospital in COVID -19.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u221	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Apostolos, a few months ago we had the outbreak of the pandemic in northern Greece, the Halkidiki Hospital's intensive hospital has hospitalized our fellow citizens from Thessaloniki. In this critical battle of pandemic, the National Health System is uniform. And now you're telling us not to transfer coronary incidents within half an hour from Athens? Do you know that this morning there were eighteen empty beds in the CIVID-19 clinic? If we need to, of course, transfer people to Chalkida and anywhere else it takes, so as not to leave any of our fellow citizens helpless. As far as Chalkida Hospital is concerned, I would remind you that today's government has put it into operation. And within a few months unsolved loose ends and actions were taken which, in the four and a half years of the country's governance by SYRIZA, remained stagnant, resulting in the hospital operating in its old facilities and the newly built-up buildings remain untapped. The development potential of the hospital is clearly greater. However, with the hospital's operation we have given value and new breath to providing health services in the Evia region. We have new sections and units and the goal is to open even more sections and units, such as Psychiatric and Pulmonary Clinical. Problems, shortcomings and gaps existed over the years. They have not appeared in the National Health System or the Chalkida Hospital in the past twenty months that the present government has taken over the country. And I would remind you of how many problems you inherited us and which, to a large extent, we have dealt with in a short time, with the recruitment of subsidiary staff, a hundred and fifty-seven in total, with permanent posts of medical staff, which we will further strengthen in future notices. We had twenty-three doctor posts in 2020, of which sixteen have already been served. And even four will take over this month's service, because there is still the publication of the FEK. We all know that the hospital's operation is in new, larger and modern facilities. New requirements are being created and we will meet these requirements. We're working so that the hospital's operation reaches the maximum level. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Allow me, Mr President, by taking a minute from my dentistry, to address the current situation in the hospital which is far too far from the point of view of what you refer to in your question. The new hospital has six fully equipped with the necessary equipment surgical banks. There are normally four, three for regular and one for emergencies. We know, of course, that there is a limitation of surgery now because of the pandemic. The MRI has started operation since the beginning of October and serves both internal and external patients. The clinics and hospital departments, since the first day of relocation and operation in the new buildings, are fully developed and operate, such as Pathological, Cardiology, Surgery, Orthopaedic, Urology, Daily Hospital, Mavrotic, Paediatric, Intensive Therapy, Increased Care, Artificial Necrosis, Mediterranean Anemia Unit and Oncology Department. I told you that our intention is - and we are working in this direction - to develop more services and parts, such as the Psychiatric Clinic and the Pulmonary Clinic. We've made it clear that these clinics will develop. Especially for pneumonology, we have in the dynamics three pneumonologists who provide their services to the COVID Unit right now and we will be able, when we overcome the pandemic, to proceed with the functioning of the Pulmonary Clinic. From what I said, Mr Apostle, it appears that neither minimal recruitment nor huge staff shortages exist, as does the problem of the Chalkida Hospital. In addition, the operation of both centre vaccination and the provision of beds for the hospitalisation of CIVID patients accompanied by the necessary support to personnel, personal protective equipment and everything else requested demonstrates the potential of the hospital to respond to increased pressure conditions. I would like to say one last word. I will return to what I mentioned at the outset, for the development of COVID beds. As part of our planning to deal with the pandemic, the hospital was indeed asked to increase the coronary hospitals for patients, so that if this hospital is needed close to Athens to help Attica with high pressure. I repeat that in exceptional circumstances, the National Health System operates uniformly, with all hospitals as a hospital. Each political leadership must ensure that all supplies are provided to enable these hospitals to meet the increased requirements. We know very well that there is increased staff pressure. There's fatigue. But we are sure that we will all succeed together. We're at the end of the way. A small effort still needs to be made so that we can overcome this difficult situation. We do not make an exception and we do not operate at two or more speeds. What was requested to strengthen the Chalkida Hospital was given to both personnel and health care materials, personal protective equipment, without second thoughts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u224	Minister, what you have done, to falsify the questions and not actually answer what I described to you, I cannot describe it. Already the COVID Clinical in Chalkida, hospitalization and intensive treatment with sixty-four beds and twelve intensive care units is working. Of course, what we are saying about this operation does not mean that we do not want this clinic to work. It works and we make a great deal of effort. What's the problem? The problem is that you suddenly say another thirty beds - nowhere there are ninety-four beds all over Greece - and at the same time, you tell patients surgeons: "Get ready to leave for hospitals in Athens". So do you understand what this means to the region? Automatically, the people of Evia, especially the mountains, who do two and a half hours and three hours to come to Chalkida, where are they going? There is a huge problem if you move on to this process. But that was what we told you before, when the hospital was transferred to Chalkida. We have told you later, however, when you had a sketchy plan and implemented the unit that I said to you without any staff. The workers themselves have arrived to perform their on-call on pathology, but also to monitor patients in the COVID section. Do you understand what you're creating as a picture? We want to help. We told you at the time at the transfer that to create a CIVID clinic there are preconditions in the old hospital. If you used especially the third floor that was heart surgery and pathological, it could house too many beds. You didn't. You didn't hear us. I told you this example and a question we had in November, to go that way. You didn't. It's been a long time. Honestly, you have lost every chance of designing and implementing things that will be useful. There goes this opportunity, you lost it. But there are possibilities at regional level too. There are hospitals at this time that can contribute to the need, indeed, for CIVID clinicals. But not moves like the one you actually said in your reply today are disturbing. You froze the relevant procedure? If you froze her, that means you have it in your mind. Let us make it clear that we do not agree, as such possibilities exist throughout Greece and especially in Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Apostle, you're from Evia, and I imagine you know the new hospital is twice as high as the old one. It is a good exercise on paper and theories, but it is a question of what is going on in practice. You're telling us to go to the old hospital. What kind of personal should we go with?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u227	I'm not telling you that for now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u228	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u229	I told you then, before the transfer took place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u230	But we've made a new hospital, Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u231	Rhetoric was the question. Don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u232	As far as the hospital is concerned and its contribution to the management of the incidents, I told you that this morning the CIVID clinic had eighteen empty beds. If necessary, we will transfer patients from Athens to Chalkida. We are obliged to design - and that is what we have done - with the most extreme scenario in mind. That's why the plan you're referring to has seen the light of publicity. No patient moved from Chalkida to another hospital. But we need to be prepared to tell you about the most extreme scenario. And to tell you and I will repeat that if necessary, patients will be transported from Athens to the hospital in Thessaloniki. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Minister. We are now entering the next questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanese. The second question, with No 520/5-3-2021, will be discussed in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Charitou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Supporting tobacco farming in Thrace because of the pandemic and low prices'. Mr. Haritto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a dynamic cultivation in seventy thousand acres, producing eight thousand tons of bass tobacco with purely export orientation, which retains the social fabric, as it employs seven thousand families and contributes to the local economy, this cultivation, Mr Minister, is currently under collapse with thousands of producers in despair and incapable of continuing it. This year may be the most decisive for the future of agriculture and producers. The already heavy climate, the pandemic conditions have accelerated, because, as they say, Mr Minister, it was a bad climate, it has also been ate in the pandemic, because the majority of producers are out of payment, and together with the failure to enter seasonal workers has led to a reduction in production volume and by extension of producers' income. It wasn't all enough. As the management of the cooperative informed me, they also fell victim to the extortion and immunity of the processing companies. Exquisite tobacco purchased 380 to 440 on average. Prices were 50 minutes below last year's cost of production. Minister, the producers are still waiting for government support through state financial aid for the destruction of 2018 production due to the viruses. You were filed by the Tobacco Cooperative complete file. The previous government opened you up. Your predecessor from that post was committed to setting up a special scientific committee to issue a findings of tobacco inclusion in the programme. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. None of this happened, Minister. EUR 1.5 million compensation for the green worm had been promised to the Rhodope cotton producers. They're still waiting for it. The President of the tobacco and European tobacco producers in his recent statements said: "We agreed with Mr Vorides on compensation because of COVID 120 euros per acre" What's up, Minister? When the Minister changes, change the data, change the evidence to the ministries? So I ask you directly whether you intend to support tobacco growing in Thrace, whether you will integrate it into the new CFP's national strategic plan, since it, as you know, contributes to employment in the region and, of course, promotes the local economy and growth. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u235	Thank you too, Mr. Haritto. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I am first aware of the hard work and hard work of the tobacco people, so that they can support themselves and their families with the small crops they have all over Greece, but also in the area you represent. Because of my origin from Iato-Carnania, which has essentially progressed along all its lines for the cultivation of tobacco, on the issue of its cultivation and support for our tobacco producers throughout Greece, I am particularly sensitive. At the same time, a stated intention of our Government, like my predecessor, as you said, is to support every producer who is tested by the pandemic, of course, by the national budgets. This intent is further strengthened when it comes to remote areas in Greece. where the care and care of the state by definition must be greater. In your question you mention that there is a failure to enter seasonal workers to collect tobacco. Last year over ten thousand seasonal workers entered the country through the revocation process, many of whom worked in the Thrace area. And yesterday, in the evening, after a lot of my personal struggle, my associates, as well as the Ministry of Rural Development and Food as a whole, together with four other ministries, we have brought together and proposed to the vote and finally the provision for the way in which the land workers will enter our country again to assist Greek producers was adopted by the majority. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time hits a warning bell.]] If I may, Mr President, take some time from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u237	Your time isn't over yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u238	This provision ensures all the necessary provisions of civil protection to comply with the measures against COVID. It is an extremely important provision, since it will allow thousands of land workers working in asparagus, peaches, many crops and, of course, in Thrace tobacco. It is a provision, however, dear fellow Member, which I think you did not vote on yesterday, and it is interesting to tell us why, although I imagine you will agree, you simply might not do so for practical reasons. However, in your second language you can answer me because you did not vote for it - not you, your party as a whole, but you too - and tobacco producers in Thrace also listen to you. It was also mentioned that producers were left with the exception of a repayable advance. According to data, to answer your question, which I received from the Ministry of Finance, they have received 475 000 euros of three hundred producers from returnees 1 to 5, while receiving even more from repayable 6. You also mention the non-inclusion of Thrace tobacco producers in the JRC despite the fact that they had submitted a complete dossier. The SYRIZA government in June 2019 established in ELGA the relevant coordinating committee that recommended negatively to cover those losses. I'm tabling this to you, if you don't already have it, the relevant finding for your information. So don't give up, my dear fellow Member, who I know your mild tone, so don't get carried away by an anti-government government, on something that those responsible at the time, two years ago - people in charge, whom your government, Mr. Tsipras, had appointed - refused to give. Don't give up on us today. I understand your anxiety about the support of tobacco producers. As I told you, I am myself, but also our government as a whole, societies of the same agony. That is why we are considering in our policy that no Greek producer should remain without state support. As I have already said, and perhaps they have brought it to you in two meetings - teleconferences, unfortunately, it was not very close because of the circumstances - with the tobacco producers in Thrace that we are in constant contact and cooperation with the Deputy Minister of Finance, so that we can obtain the approval of the aid of de minimis towards the growers of the Virginia variety, to whom you are referring. I think we're on the right track and we're moving on. That was promised by my predecessor, and that is what we are continuing. The difficulties we face are obvious. Although we borrow at very low interest rates due to the credibility built by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the country's finances are extremely difficult and we are trying to manage the money in the best way and this is delayed. But, as I said, we have the same interest as you and I think we are on a very good path to give this money.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u239	Very good. The rest, Minister, in your dentistry. Mr. Haritou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u240	Minister, I have indeed heard you very carefully, but I am pleased that you say that you are from an area that knows about tobacco. However, you should know that in my area we have Eastern Basma and not Virginia. I'm telling you, because you probably got it wrong. I have asked you a very, very specific question, namely whether you will support the tobacco growing in Thrace that is falling apart due to COVID. No specific commitment, Minister, you did not make. And I say this because, while you are talking to the consortium, with the cooperative, while you say that you are listening to them, you are not specifically committed at the end. For other crops, Minister, like trees you were particularly galantic. Looks like there's more electoral clientele there. But there is a problem here, Minister, and you have to understand that, that is to say, that the year is really very critical. Either there will be support this year or, if there is not, there will be a collapse, Minister, the cultivation. It is massively abandoned by the world, as farmers alone cannot stand to lift it to their weak backs. Processing companies have, as you know, received fine tobacco this year - because you know and should be aware that they are in an integrated management programme, where they operate two digital, intelligent farming programmes - and you say that you are thinking about it. There is no next day, there is no tomorrow if there is no support today, Minister. I say that because very well what you said, and I'm really sorry. You're oppositioning the opposition, Minister. You can't say that. I told you that in February 2020, on 12 February, from the position you are sitting on, at the time, Minister Vorides committed himself to a debate here in the House to set up a special scientific committee so that there can indeed be a conclusion so that they can join the programme. And what did you answer me? You replied to me for the ELGA Scientific Committee and that is why you made a smuggling, because when the ELGA Scientific Committee rejected it in November 2019, it was not a government of SYRIZA, you were. So you understand that at last you have to think about it very seriously. There is a great need for support not only immediately, but there is also a serious plan, so that this crop can really be supported, incorporated into the strategic plan under discussion, because, Minister, not only does it contribute to employment, but it also contributes a great deal to the local economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Haritou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u242	I understand that you want to raise the tons, but you cannot because we have a good relationship from the past. So our confrontation can remain within the parliamentary framework. You're right about what you're saying. This committee has never been made, i.e. I have never found it coming there. This does not mean that there is no intention and that we do not realize that we need to help your particularly sensitive area, especially under the conditions of cultivation there, with the small lot, with the people who have their specific characteristics and who are in this productive sector. In this context, I have explained before that we are doing our utmost to achieve it. My briefing is that you have in Thrace and some crops with Virginia, which is why I mentioned them. I understand that Bashma is the cultivation, which you have primarily and I referred to it, because that is where we have the opportunity today to finance it. I told your neighbors, when we met at the two conferences, that we would try. But don't try to create a social automation situation. Do not try to put the producers against them. We do not make this division and, of course, in no case - you may have missed it - we do not have a look at any voting logic when we try to support all the Greeks who are put into all the branches and especially the sensitive producer sector. Tree crops need their support. Tobacco needs their support. Many other crops we are trying to help need their support. However, everything must be done on the basis of documentation and always be aware of the fact that the country's budgets - it is not us or you, the two of us, that is why - it is. As much as we're trying to improve them, they're specific. So in this context and in a spirit of overall social policy that we are trying to develop, as I have said before, we are very anxious and interesting to see the subject and I hope that we will be able to help the tobacco industry as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, too, Minister. The third under number 516/4-2021 will now be discussed with a topical question from the Deputy Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Astalos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of a New Triglis dam". And this question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Lebanese. Mr. Pana, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are already aware of the crucial role played by the people in the Halkidiki economy by the involvement of the primary sector. However, water management is a major problem for our region. In the coming years, in fact, there are expected to be even more serious problems of water supply and irrigation due to climate change and intensification of rural activity. Furthermore, you are well aware that the main and well-known cultivation of our Prefecture is the olive Halkidiki, which needs a large amount of cubic water, especially during the summer months, where the demand is significantly increased due to the tourist season. You can therefore see how important the question I ask you today. For your information, Minister, I inform you that the Municipality of Promodida had completed the necessary steps to build the dam and the relevant reservoir in the place of "Platania" of the Municipal Community of Triglia since 2014, where it also submitted the relevant study of the project. Therefore, as the project met all the conditions for accession, it was announced that it was financed around EUR 6 million in 2019. But until today there are some delays, as the former Minister for Rural Development and Food was only signed by the decision on forced expropriation in June. Minister, bearing in mind that this project will contribute and solve major irrigation problems encountered by my neighbours in New Triglia and the wider region, I ask you: At what stage is the construction of the New Triglia Halkidiki dam? What is the estimated timetable for the implementation of this project and what steps can be taken to speed it up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Pana. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u246	No, okay, I don't have that much to say here, Mr. President. Dear Mr Pana, you are right that the management of natural resources and, of course, of water resources is extremely important and is also a key axis of our policy at the Ministry, as I have told you at the recent meeting. In particular, Improving projects are our main objective of ensuring and saving water and irrigation needs, rational management of resources and of ensuring the quality of irrigation water and soil protection. Just because it is so important that this axis, as you mentioned, is as important, we are well well in our recovery programme, the improvement of projects, and indeed, with a pioneering methodology of PPPs and co-financing, and we are working very intensively on it, so that we can move a lot of what has been set aside for decades in our country. You said the evidence of the project in Platania, the Dam and the reservoir for four hundred thousand cubic metres and, as you quite rightly said, it has a budget of EUR 6,205 000. There was a delay, which was not the fault of the State, it was the fault of the company that had undertaken to complete the process, which is why the competent agency requested the inclusion of these expropriations and of this project as a whole in a fast track process, which was indeed adopted by a decision of the Ministerial Council on 29 April 2020 and, as you quite rightly said, my predecessor, signed it in June. Since then the project has been in full progress. I haven't visited it, but that's how the services informed me. I hope that you and I will soon be visiting this and you are asking us the question, so that people can be informed in your area as well. At this stage, therefore, the tendering procedure is being carried out to highlight the independent valuer for compensation and the timetable, on stranded lines, I understand that it will have begun about a quarter of a five-month period. In this context, I have the newsletter with all the stages that they gave us until the final signature, which is twenty-four steps, from the agency and the head of director. It is at your disposal if you want to see them and discuss them with your fellow citizens there. And of course we in the Ministry are at your disposal for any other question or information or some idea, which could make us run the project faster.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Pana, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u248	Minister, I am particularly pleased that you are addressing the improvement works and, more specifically, the work of the Dam in New Triglia. It is very important - and I would like to say this - that since the first moment you have been a sick man in planning and planning and in the part of the Recovery Fund for such projects, as you have identified a very important issue that is currently in the whole country, that the issue of water supply and irrigation really is one of the greatest issues at the moment, which will be the production process of our country. I know, therefore, that the tender procedures have already run. You are also aware that the project is part of the procedures laid down in Article 7a of Law 2882/01. According to this, in order to carry out projects of more general importance to the economy of the country, it is possible to allow work to be done before the determination and payment of the compensation. It is a very important point that I would like to see together. And know that implementation of this dam can play a very important role in the New Triglia region. I believe that for the first time we have a specific commitment at a time and this is very important for the inhabitants of New Triglia, for the inhabitants of the Municipality of Promodidas and in general for the inhabitants of Halkidiki. So I'm keeping your timeline. I hope it will be implemented. Obviously, I will use the twenty-four elements that you have given us at the moment, because people want to be informed, and that is why the topical questions have been asked, and of course I am also here to contribute to the very worthwhile programming that you have drawn up so far in the part of the Recovery Fund for such projects. I conclude with this. This great task of building the Triglia dam is an issue that concerns the Triglians and the wider region, as all these years have waited very hard for this project, and Triglia and the Municipality of Proudidas, which has, in turn, done a lot of work. I invite you to take a closer look at it. Thank you very much, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Pana. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u250	With great pleasure, my dear fellow Member, I accept your invitation and would like to come and visit the region and the specific project. As I told you, our service and I personally are at your disposal to work in any way, possibly with the suggestion that you have made for faster procedures. We have also discussed in the past and I understand your overall view of growth. I think that all this debate on the management of water resources, the cultivation of the primary sector and, in particular, the olives of Halkidiki, which can be extremely combined with the tourism you have in Halkidiki - and I know how much you are struggling with it - and the overall approach you have in mind, covers our view of sustainable development, and above all our willingness to integrate our policies, so that production in the agri-food sector and, in particular, products which are exportable, can be very well combined with the tourist product, to increase the time of tourists' residence in the tourist areas, our own and to link it to our agricultural products, so that we can give them a special added value. It is a prerequisite for all of this, as we have said, water, because whatever the blood does for our body, so does water for production. So we are in the right direction, we are in the same direction and with great pleasure, as I said before, to work together further.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Minister. Next is the fifth under No. 518/4-3-2021 topical question by the Senate MP of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “A huge amount of potatoes available in Upper Brodou Serres”. Mr Lebanese will answer that question. Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we come from farm-animal prefectures. It's one of the largest geography in Greece and the Prefecture of Eitolokarnania, from where you come from, and the Prefecture of Serres. You know the problems. But there are people now who are experiencing their own economic drama. He's in an economic despair. And we must also look at this issue patriotic and morally. It concerns the mountainous community of Upper Brondus, a community at an altitude of about a thousand hundred and fifty meters, which is the highest traditional picturesque village in the entire eastern Macedonia, as well as the community of Mountain Serras and the communities of Lower Brode, Mariorio and Nerokotio Drama. There's a large amount of unspoken potato right now, mostly in Upper Vrondu, where people don't know if they can get seed potatoes for the new growing season, for the so-called spring potato. So this potato, which is rich in nutrients, must find the way to place it on the market. In order not to hide, because of the GATT Treaty and because of the common agricultural policy, imports of foreign products are carried out unreservedly, including Egyptian and Turkish potatoes. But it is not only that, but it is also that they are involved in supermarkets, which we cannot control, and they are language to the consumer as Greek while they are not. They are Egyptian or Turkish or French, but in any case, the French also have some labels. So people don't know what to do. To tell the cathode, right now, they have not taken euros from the 'Korovo aid'. I know that the file has left you, as you have said, as Minister. Where did he get stuck? Mr. Stavura? Why have they not taken either a euro or a spring or a autumn potato? We're talking about selling potatoes at 0.10, 0.12 minutes. At the moment, we are talking about a cost that is more than 0,25 minutes, so we are talking about 800 euros the acre, so they have so far covered around 200 to 300 euros. So even if they get the 'Korovo' aid, which can be up to 250 euros, they'll still be in it. Every fireplace that smokes now in Upper Brodou experiences its own drama. They have about ten thousand tons of undisposed potato. How, then, will these people now pay traders for fertilisers, organic matter and for the trace elements they want? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How will they pay the power they owe, while they're on top of top phones and collectors, and they don't know what to do in this inaccessible space, as they experience it there? Because this year the focus is closed, 70% - 80% cannot spare the potato, so there are too many tons of tons available. If we'd given some weight for a week consumer, we'd have solved the problem for their warehouses. And you know, in this potato plant, the bulb is eaten and not the fruit, the Greek potatoes otherwise, or the French name...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Booba, you will continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we have to find a way, because at the moment these families are watching us, Minister, and they are hanging from your lips. Give them a promise and not just a promise, but find them a solution within a reasonable time to make the potato available. Will it be the Greek Army? Will it be the Greek hospitals? Is there going to be some camps that have food? Find a way, though, because potato is and is eaten, so that these people can sleep a little bit quiet, because they are really sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Booba. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Booba, you know my appreciation, as you know my character. I cannot make any promises that I cannot make. I fully understand your anxiety, like that of our fellow citizens in the areas you described before, which I do not know very closely. I wish we could go along soon and meet people. You know very well that throughout this pandemic that is plagued by our homeland, but also throughout the world, our government's effort is to do everything possible with seriousness and plan, so that we can reach the money we have and cover as many of our fellow citizens as possible who have a problem, particularly in the primary sector and, of course, in Serres, which I honor both for their history and for the problems they face, but also for their productive capacity. With regard to the potato as a whole now and within the framework of this protection net that we are trying to spread to all our producers, we have already provided EUR 12 445 000. Of these, based on the information we have on the service, producers in your county have received 45,386 euros. It is possible that this will not be enough and cannot meet all needs. However, this is the data, because in an abstraction of your speech you said there has been no 'currency support' to the spring potato. Furthermore, because, as you all know and as we all experience, pandemic continues, we have sent the European Commission a request for aid and for the autumn potato, which has been approved. It's just pending at the Treasury - not the way you said it, that someone disagrees - the approval. Of course, we are in constant cooperation with them, so that we can complete the effort that we have started and which you, too, will, I imagine, give our support in order to further strengthen the producers. I am optimistic that within the next few days this process will be completed in our other dialogue or in private, so that you can also speak to the producers in your country, I will tell you in particular the numbers that have been finally adopted, because I do not want to say something today which may be somewhat different tomorrow. But I am optimistic that in the next few days we will have something more to say to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u257	Here, Mr Buba, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u258	Minister, as you rightly say, we do not want any air promises. We want scripta manent, written assurances. I will carry this optimism, because these people are watching us. But, on the record, do some actions with Mr Panayotopoulos. I won't tell you, but take action with the Department of National Defence. Let the Army take a few tons. Also, work with Mr. Kikilia to get the hospitals. Give such flexible solutions, in other words, because we are talking about a Greek product, we are talking about the Greek yellow potato of Upper Brode, which is nourishing and with quality characteristics, so that these people of both mountain and other communities can quickly walk around. Population is not many farmers. However, we must be charitable, and most of all you as Minister for Rural Development - and you are - and embrace the last farmer and farmer in the primary sector. We have a primary sector, the potato is eaten in a variety of ways and it is widely consumed. However, we should be realistic. We can't check the supermarkets. There the potato is mixed, there are illegal Greekisms, while there are imports from Egypt, from Turkey and anywhere else. That's well known. I wish you'd delayed it for other reasons. The European Union is giving such a chance. I know you're gonna run it. But press to find some other outlets so that people can sow. There's seed potatoes coming to buy. You know, the potato is at risk from the periphery and the fungus while it's incarcerated and the temperatures fall. It's a bulb that needs special cultivation. It doesn't want much water, it wants good weather, soft soil, to be outside foreign bodies and good conditions so it can be in warehouses. So as the temperature rises, fungi and possibly the periphery can rot. So we need to move fast within two weeks. Do some actions with your fellow ministers, government officials, can be consumed there, eat the Army, the Navy and the Air Force Greek potato. Why would she eat Egyptian? Also, let’s get Greek potato for the patient’s menu, like some kind of children’s stations in the municipalities. Moreover, large municipalities have social aggregations. Take Mayor of Athens, Mr. Bakoyannis, as well as the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr. Zerva, to get Greek potato for the social piles, for the most deprived. So we have to find some quick solutions so that people can get even the things they are out of, get the seed potatoes, pay the obligations to supplies, medicines, fertilisers, as well as other current family obligations, so that they can get out of this economic stagnation, from this economic dead end. We cannot talk about a primary sector and leave ten thousand tons of Greek potatoes indisposed. We need to break our head to find a way to place it domestically. One more thing. I did not say that you disagree, but push this file to Mr Stavoura a little. I'm told by the potatoes producers of Upper Brode, maybe some of my other short-stayers in Serres got that since spring they haven't been getting "krono reinforcement". So push this file you signed by Mr. Stakoura so that these people can leave and get some reinforcement and they can take a breath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Booba. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u260	I don't have much to add. I understand your anxiety and I share your pain for the people who are troubled. But we must always have the overall picture in our minds. That's not a bad idea. I don't know exactly how the supplies are made for hospitals and the Army. I will pass it on to my fellow ministers. It's a good creative idea, but I don't know if there's a process that they're following. With regard to what you have touched on in relation to the Greekizations and controls, it is certain that we can do much more. Our government has tried a great deal both in legislative terms and in the market to take steps in the direction we want and it is my own priority, because I have dealt with it both as a man of the market and as a Member of a region producing products and very badly damaged, affected by illegal imports, Greekizations and so on. So that is where your thoughts and proposals are welcome about how we can strengthen the control mechanism. I would just like to point out once again that, as I have said before, I do not know why some of your interlocutors are telling you that no aid has been granted. It's been given backup. I told you it was about 12.5m euros. This, of course, does not mean that we do not understand the problems that are gradually occurring while the coronary continues. That is why I told you that we are on the right track and we are completing this process. Don't worry, we're pushing a lot of the file over there every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u261	Next is the tenth third with number 534/8-32021.Piraeus II piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need to support the growers of wine grapes and small and cooperative wineries affected by the consequences of the pandemic." And that is what the Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer, Mr Lebanese. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, the pandemic and the Lockdown have been victims both in human lives which are the most essential and, unfortunately, the irreplaceable, but also in the rural economy. A sector in crisis is the wine sector. Unfortunately, the suspension of the focus means a reduction in the consumption of wine, a record of stocks, a sharp drop in the prices of wine grapes. And producers, winegrowers cannot cover the cost of production at such prices either. But, let me tell you, pay is going to be a cloud too! The government's answer to the questions we asked in September and December 2020 was that it is following the problem with price reductions and that there will be intervention in this regard. But let me tell you, we're still waiting! The winegrowers, despite the dramatic decline in their income, actually had no compensation, but little. We are talking about those who have joined to the extent of the repayable advance are just 5% of the vineyards. What did they take in the hand? They've only taken 500 euros, that's nothing! With regard to decongestion of stocks, the JEHOE estimates that the measures taken so far by the government - around EUR 21 million - were inadequate and delayed in normalising the situation. It is particularly difficult to identify the cooperatives and the smallest and not so much the large wine-making enterprises that compresse prices. Cooperatives do not compress the price they give the winegrower. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What are we asking? In fact, the winegrowers and the cooperative movement are asking for it. We ask for a replacement to the lost income of the growers of wine grapes. It has been given to other sectors. The financing and implementation of decongestion measures must be ensured in good time, on the basis of different criteria - I stress this - which will also take into account the price paid by small wineries to producers, but above all cooperatives. Thirdly, you must press to claim additional funds from the European Union. Other winemaking countries are calling for it to be supported by wine growers and small cooperative wineries affected by the consequences of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u263	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. In spite of all the ideological differences, you know well, my dear fellow Member, that we and we have the corresponding social sensitivity and are trying to ensure that, as far as possible, as the financial framework in which we live, we cover as many Greek and Greek workers in our country and, of course, the primary sector. You have rightly presented what is happening in the wine sector, which is being tested hard by the pandemic as well as many others in the primary sector. I do not know why you say that you have seen the strengthening of this sector anywhere, for which we are both concerned, from the state's point of view, because last year we ran two programmes. One had never run, the other had only run in 2006. So we implemented the 'Green Tree' programme, with which three hundred sixty-five beneficiaries received a total of over EUR 1 million and the total area that joined the harvest was 3,600 acres of production. At the same time, he also ran the program of the "Crisis Distillation", which included a hundred and twenty-five total beneficiaries, taking 20 million euros. I don't know how you haven't spotted those. This year, the funds of the National File to boost production in wine, from EUR 23,963 000 last year, will be reduced by EUR 933 000. So that's where we'll actually have a reduction. These are European and our country is already with other countries of the European Union - I have put it personally at the last Council of Ministers - we have sent a request to increase the funds for this year. From this money we will run the Green Tree programme, restructuring, investments, promotion, information to producers and distillation. We also expect additional funding from the State budget in this context, so that we also have the available national resources to finance this programme. At the same time, we are making our efforts in committee to change the rate of participation in aid measures from 80% national and 20% Union to 90% national and 10% Union. In addition, grape growers with CIS numbers 0121 have entered the repayable advances of the Ministry of Finance, where three thousand two hundred and twenty-two beneficiaries have received a total of EUR 5,5 million - and more - with an average of EUR 1734 per beneficiary. In this context, therefore, I think we have a common view and anguish for our producers in the wine sector, but we have a different perspective. You do not see all the money that I have just described to you that has been given during the coronary, and I told you in particular, and we can discuss them if you want at any other time, to inform the people you are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u266	Minister, we have social sensitivity, but this must also seem practically your policy, your sensitivity is expressed in all its greatness in business groups and not in farms, and that shows the evidence and the poorness of farmers. What can we do? The figures themselves show that. As far as the green harvest and distillation are concerned, I officially read you the information you have and we are of KESOE. I'm reading it to you because you have the same thing, I'm not making any difference. ‘The green harvest measure has been applied lately, a small share of the vineyard growers, because the compensation was unrealistic, was unreasonable’. Crisis distillation, while being a powerful weapon for decongestion, is considered to have contributed to normalisation of operation - they adopted the measure - it did not have a universal impact on the sector, taking into account the volume of stocks on 31 July 2020. The reserves historically are the biggest we've ever had. Therefore, if we go with the same measures and the same standards, we are not going to have a return, the problem is not solved. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] I tell you because the tanks are scarved, they have to be literalized, and we cannot stay alone in the findings. That it was ineffective, that it was. What are they asking for? Application to measure 21. Also, in the state budget, you must be simpler at this stage to prevent the wine sector from being destroyed, and at the end of the day, nothing has been said about the special aid that cooperative wineries must have, since they have given far better prices and in this sense there must be a preferential treatment. As far as return is concerned, we are talking about amounts which should not even be mentioned. I'm talking about the 500 euros back. Finally, you must press - I tell you - and in the European Union, in coordination with other wine-growing countries to enter the Community budget. I say this because the Group of the Party of European Socialists also asks a question in this direction, namely from the Community budget, but there must also be a simple hand in the state budget. Let me make a statement. Finally, it seems very clearly in this part that capitalist production cannot solve such problems. On the contrary, they will be perpetuated, because you cannot make a central design here too, if you like, seems the supremacy of the socialist way of production. Do I therefore expect you to tell us in your dentistry in particular the amounts, in particular, that should be released and something else I should like to say to you? The distillation by becoming brave is not going to be lost. Processing will be, they'll go for antiseptics, they'll go for alcohol and in the pandemic phase they need and they can feed hospitals and schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u267	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Although we are together in this claim in the European forums, I have told you before that I am pleased that your representatives in the European Parliament have also tabled the question in the direction that we are working, and I told you that I also worked at the last Council of Ministers for Rural Development. I cannot say, of course, that you are asking for money from an agency that you do not recognize and in any case...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u269	People claim...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u270	...they accept this capitalist system that you are fighting and as we have told you many times, we do not want to convince you, we have different opinions, you have never done us the favour of telling us where and when these systems are being effectively implemented which you publish and how for the specific application of this system that you think is better than what we believe to be, how we could use it specifically, since you want specific measures and amounts, to make a different policy, even as you call it socialist and to support Greek producers in the wine sector and others. I think that at times you are exaggerating and speaking theoretically, without being able to approach reality and, above all, without thinking that in this way you are creating a social automation in the logic of 'all right', give more, say, if we had the possibility of finding them, to winegrowers. To the rest of the producers? Shouldn't we give there, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u271	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u272	So should we not have a coordinate plan, and that is what this government does, and you know it, try to give and support to those most in need and those who have the most in need of their products? Obviously, I agreed with you and answered you positively in my prototype. The wine sector is such a sector. However, since I have discussed the Interprofessionals represented and the JCPOE in it, I do not think we have such a dimension of opinion. On the contrary, you have now agreed that there is the evidence I have told you. You may not be enough for that money we have given or what we are planning to give, but in your prototype you said that they have not taken anything, then you said that it is very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u273	I said insufficient.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u274	Insufficient. I wish there were more. Good faith we have discussed many times, if you have ways to be able to get more, to do so. And I told you that in this fight and next week I will be in Brussels, if the Council lives, we will raise the matter again and I am glad that your MEPs are in the same direction. As far as cooperative schemes are concerned, my partner told me that in most cases there is an extra 10% aid for cooperative schemes, precisely. In their funding, however, in this context, I do not know whether it is possible and I do not know whether it would be right to separate the producers. In any case, however, let us also see whether we have that possibility and have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u275	Minister, we ask for EUR 150 per acre in the vineyards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u276	Deal. I don't know what this reduction is, we can measure it, but we need to see where we can find the money to give it. If you can help us with this, too, because asking is easy. Finding the money to give it is a little bit harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u277	Minister, thank you. I want to remind you that your leadership at the Ministry was promised me a month ago to hold a meeting for the Bytina. You forgot. You've got a lot on your mind. I remind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u278	No, I haven't forgotten. On the contrary, I've already been informed and understood how right you are about the Bytina issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u279	Good. We will now continue with the seventeenth under the number 540/8-32021 topical question of second-cycle MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Arcouda: a government blow to its protection of the abolition of Action 4.4.1'. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, good start at your duties. This is the first time we have been talking in this House about your new responsibilities. Now that you are going to Brussels with your new role, ask whether you can also see the other Ministers for Rural Development and Agriculture if there is another country that does not support farmers and beekeepers and farmers with protection measures against the damage caused by big mammals. Of course, you know the answer, because in November 2018 it was that Commissioners for the Environment and Rural Development sent an open letter to all the Ministers for the Environment and Rural Development of the Member States of the European Union, calling on them to take steps to strengthen their efforts to support the coexistence of large carnivores with agricultural and livestock farming and activities, and also within the European Commission we have the guidelines announced to incorporate damage prevention measures, such as non-productive investments in the establishment of protective fences or herd storage dogs in the Rural Development Programme. We call for measures to protect farmers and beekeepers, Minister, against the bear and the wolf, which obviously protect both the bear and the wolf, because otherwise a culture of killing these protected species begins to be created. There were such measures following pressure from the European Commission on Mrs Athanasopoulou from your Ministry by DG ENV.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u281	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u282	I shall conclude, Mr President. After pressure in 2013, for the first time, we reached this measure exceptionally for six months only. Unfortunately, this accession has lasted very little, although it has become part of the next programming period, without the funding ever being opened, and now you are responding to the transitional period. We really wonder where your care is for farmers, farmers, beekeepers, where your welfare for biodiversity is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask that we be in time for both colleagues and for the process to proceed. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, thank you very much for your question and for your words. You know - because we have discussed them outside Athens - that our position coincides with how we understand growth and this view is intertwined with sustainable coexistence with the environment. In particular, the programme you are talking about was indeed included in the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, but on the basis of the information given by the agency to us in order to have this debate, it was not activated because there were no - none of what they said to me - institutional requests from producers, farmers and farmers to activate. That is something we should have in mind when we have this debate. With the outbreak of the pandemic, which created enormous needs, as we have been discussing for a long time with other colleagues in the Chamber in support of our producers, the Ministry's services and the political leadership, before I go there, proceeded by making requests to the European Commission so that it could transfer enough funds, including this one, from the ESDP measures to support our producers. That was a political choice. I must admit that I would do the same, and I believe that you would do the same, especially in projects which did not have a request for participation. This proposal was therefore prepared and put into consultation in November 2020 and was indeed answered by the last amendment, which was already adopted by the European Commission. So it was up to the Europeans, whom you referred to, to ask tomorrow. Adopted on 9 March. So the Ministry of Rural Development, with the agreement - I repeat - transferred funds and was able to finance the large measure of EUR 126 million in support of olive oil, which received huge support, contrary to what we are discussing, which actually has this dimension that you said - and I agree with you - after having submitted a hundred and four thousand three hundred and fifty-four applications and the total amount, as I said, was almost 127 million. It does not, of course, mean - and I am telling you sincerely - that we are undermining, as a government, the need to protect mammals and, of course, the large mammals, for which you are also interested, nor are we seeking to create a conflict between producers and animals. This is precisely why, with your assistance and encouragement, my position is that we will try to integrate this into the new programming period that we are planning for 2023-2027. Your objective and ours this time will be - and there we can work positively together to inform the people you are calling for at the moment - to truly function and ultimately contribute to the objective of protecting animals and sustainable development and biodiversity, as you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u285	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I do not deny that the commitment to 2023-2027 is important, but, you know, it had joined in 2014-2020 and responded. Now, to tell us that you will simply commit to re-entry when it does not exist in the transitional period, it is not enough. You're saying you didn't have any requests. And yet, if we look at the damage from the ELGA from the wolf and the bear, we have seven digit numbers. It's over 1 million a year. In fact - and I do not have the latest elements, we will ask for them with a request for documents, I have the data by 2016 - it is also a growing year with the year, as the policies of the past to protect the wolf and bear led to an increase in the wolf and bear. Only the wolf contributed to damages of over 1 million alone, in addition to what happened with the bear. So we don't always have to see the demands alone. We can also see the damage, the requests for financial aid. It is now over to consult the action plan on the bear. It's in the last phase of institutionalisation. In the absolute two priorities for immediate application are storage dogs - which you also do not go ahead - and electrophoretic fences. What else has to be done? In other words, the Commission sends you letters and there is now a clear obligation from the action plan on bears. It is self-evident and common sense. Why would you leave farmers and beekeepers and other producers unprotected and finally let a tension arise between man and bear, apparently leading to biodiversity damage? Double damage to production and biodiversity. We will proceed with an ACP deposit on the latest elements of the damage from wild animals unless you have them with you. I now have up to '16 the figures, which are very large numbers of allowances. I believe that this wound must be stopped. It is a matter of protecting public finances and taxpayers' money. It is not possible to pay more than EUR 1 million a year when with a programme of a few million we would have solved this issue once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u288	Let me tell you. It is not right now to reverse my words to show that we want to create this division. On the contrary, we want to. I told you before that the project was answered, because there were no requests. And the project was answered, because there were too much needs, so that we could fund producers who were brutally affected by the coronary. In particular, I told you that they went to the oilseed producers. Do you disagree with that? I guess not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u289	Answer me, I don't mind. We are in favour of dialogue. So we made a choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u290	Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u291	We can't do this, we can do five circles. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u292	We will finish, Mr President, there is not much to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u293	I do. But that's not possible, Mr. Arseny. If this goes on, then each Member will circle with the Minister. Hey, sit in a room and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u294	In any case, the amount is very small.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u295	Good. Thank you. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u296	Okay, but at the moment I explained to you and before that this process has been completed. So, if I wanted to, I can't change it. What we can do is see what we're going to do from now on, i.e. if we can put it in. There I told you that I wanted to work together and to incorporate it and see the money. Unfortunately, ELGA has not given me the total amount of compensation. Indeed, there were some requests there. Evidently the same people who had these blows went to ELGA to compensate, but when the program was running, they did not go to join the program to protect themselves. That is now a pathogen that we need to think about and manage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u297	It was not "run" the programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u298	No, before he stops running, he was running the program. This is at least the briefing I've received. In any case, if you have any other thoughts on what we could do right away, I am at your disposal to discuss it. I tell you that for the next programme that we are planning now, because we cannot turn the time back, our intention is to incorporate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u299	Thank you. We continue with the ninth under number 533/8-32021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for diplomat guides". The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Since November 2019, diplomatic guides, like the majority of tourist workers, have been unworkable. At the end of the tourist season, low-wage guides are subject to the quarterly grant of the OAED, which is paid, of course, after the marks of the previous year. However, as those marks are not computerized, but are counted by just one ECA official at the Constitutional Store, the count was delayed, resulting in the aid in 2019, which is normally paid in January of the following year, to be paid in June 2020, not just in October. After the outbreak of the pandemic and the first incarceration from March to April 2020, the compensation for a specific purpose of eight hundred euros was paid, which was not accompanied by signals, as was the case with other workers. Moreover, a number of measures and regulations during the last tourist season made it impossible to create tour groups, these measures prohibiting more than thirty-five people, seventeen in archaeological sites, nine in museums. Since October there has been a ban on group tours, so that licensed guides cannot work. In September and October together with artists and cultural workers received EUR 534 special purpose compensation for each month, as well as fifty brands, which are required as a minimum for the care and insurance coverage of 2021. Thus, licensed tours, although belonging to the pandemic workers' groups affected, received for the entire year 2020 a meagre sum of EUR 1.868, while the SRF for workers' signals from the Ministry of Labour has not yet been deposited. Apart from being unable to meet minimum needs for themselves and their families, their insurance coverage for 2021 has not yet been ensured. Questions are specific, Minister. To be submitted directly by the Ministry of Labour, the SGP of the fifty press, in order to have full insurance cover. To pay the special-purpose compensation for the months of 2020 in which they have not worked or received any other financial aid. To suspend all payments to the public, banks, for electricity, water, telecommunications now cut into a lot of people and to provide the FBI's Tourist Department with computerized signals. Of course, to observe all those measures, the sanitary protocols...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u302	... in order to ensure that working conditions which do not jeopardise workers are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u303	Come on, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President, and thank Mr Katsotis. Mr Katsotis, we are now in the middle of the third wave of pandemic, and I would like to believe that with the vaccinations that are progressing at an accelerated pace, economic activity will begin to return to some sort of normality within the next few months. However, it is very likely that the economy will continue to need state support for a long time yet, since some branches have been really severely affected by the limitation of economic and social activity. The government has developed and implemented the largest and most massive programme of support for workers and unemployed people in recent decades. EUR 6.4 billion has so far been spent covering approximately EUR 3 million in both horizontal and targeted measures in specific categories. These measures include EUR 3.2 billion for direct wage support, one and a half billion for insurance contributions, and another EUR one and a half billion has been spent through various actions, such as unemployment benefits, and all this despite the strong constraints imposed by the country's high budgetary debt. One of the majorly affected sectors is tourism. That is why the government has already directed a significant part of the resources available to support measures for businesses and tourist workers. In particular, starting from the most recent measures taken, from 25 February to 15 March, unilaterally responsible statements for receiving the special-purpose compensation amounting to EUR 534 per month for the months and February 2021 have been made available to categories of tourist-related workers, such as tour guides mentioned in your question, tourist attendants and workers employed in travel agencies, booking services and related activities during the 2019 tourist season and not re-entered during the 2020 tourist season, as well as those employed in winter tourist accommodation and ski resorts from October 2019 to March 2020 and not re-entered in the following period. As you mentioned in the text of your question, for the months of September and October 2020 a special purpose allowance of EUR 534 per month was provided for tour operators who are liable for insurance contributions to EKA, as well as for persons who graduated in 2019 from the two-year tour schools with a tour capacity. Also, in terms of insurance capacity, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Labour has made a key choice by ensuring access to health services for all the e-ECA members and their family members, irrespective of the insurance requirements laid down in the legislation. Thus, even the EUR 50 for 2020 for the renewal of insurance capacity is not necessary. No citizen remains uncovered and full medical care for all workers and members of their families is ensured. This regulation shows in practice that it has a full perception of the conditions of the labour market and of society and demonstrates that it stands alongside those who need it. We are aware of the difficulties that pandemic has caused and the measures to reduce it, we are not indifferent, and we are responding directly and effectively, as we have to do. The support measures, however, do not stop here. As I have noted before, we continue planning the next day after the pandemic, which I hope is close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u305	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u306	Minister, the questions are specific. The answers you have given, general and vague, as is customary not only from you, but from all the Ministers. The first question about full insurance cover, what did you predict? Coverage in kind. Only this is the cover you provide. Can you answer us for a working woman, who in the industry is a majority - not only to guides but also to tourism - who became pregnant and did not have the two days of insurance before birth, because of the situation, if he is entitled to a licence, will he be entitled to maternity and maternity benefits? The provision of these benefits requires an active employment relationship. These workers who are affected by closed undertakings, with their professions closed down by a government decision, what are they considered by the Government? As having an active employment relationship or unemployed? You must therefore answer. Fifty days of insurance as a condition of insurance cover only for species, is it true that the support of the workers is supported? For the second question, to pay a special allowance for the months not worked, May to December, as for 2021 to today's work, did you not answer, the payment of EUR 1.868 for 2020 is considered by you to be the protection of workers, namely EUR 5 to EUR 7 per day? What does the whole situation create for workers? How can these workers pay electricity, water, telephone? How can they feed? How can they get milk for their children? How is that possible? On these specific questions you are not answering. And you say the other one. The insurance department in the Constitution, did you see it? Have you investigated it? Can this department, in fact, proceed to computerise their posts? It is an issue that they themselves need to go on today because they are in a wave. On these specific questions, we would like the answer that we unfortunately did not have. Also, health and safety measures at work - we are talking about archaeological sites - what did the Ministry propose? How will the JRC check? On which protocols will it go to check whether the health and safety measures for tour guides are actually respected? There were no answers on these. That is why we say that you have responded in general and vaguely, with what you say about what the government has done, how many measures it has taken, who has taken them, etc. But here, unfortunately, we did not get an answer on this matter. You said about tourist employees too. Here we have a document, Minister, because we will report from the workers' association in Corfu that says that although you have solved the issue, it is assumed that the information system 'ERGAN' does not accept the demands of new entrants in the sector, who have been working since 2019 and are without any protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u307	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u308	Mr Katsotis, thank you very much. I've been answering your questions several times. I was surprised, for you are usually very careful and documented in what you say. You're not right here. I told you quite clearly about medical devices that they have full coverage and they don't even need the fifty marks you mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u309	But it's kind of cover, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u310	The second issue you mentioned, EUR 534 is with insurance. So I think I've already answered two of your questions. In my dentext I would like to cover both the question of support for the health protocols you mentioned in your question and the working conditions you have included, and the issue of the staffing of e-FTA. In the Ministry of Labour we have raised as a top issue, in addition to the maintenance of jobs, the protection of workers from the coronary. For this reason, the Labour Inspectorate with competent health services of local government, the Greek police, the port and the National Transparency Authority are carrying out continuous checks to ensure compliance with protection measures and measures against the dispersion of the coronary. And obviously, active role in this whole process has also been played by the EGE in managing suspicious cases, conducting tests, etc. The evidence of the checks and fines imposed by the APRC inspectors since the beginning of the pandemic - I think I had referred to them in detail to your own question, which I replied last week - is characteristic of the gravity that the government gives to compliance with the protection and hygiene measures. In addition, we should not forget that last summer's experience exists, which, despite the great fall in tourist activity, has shown that we have the possibility of opening up tourism and related activities safely for all workers, but also visitors to tourists, always with great care and careful respect for the relevant health rules. To close, on the part of the staffing, which you also raise, I would like to refer to the planning of ECA recruitments. The annual recruitment programming for 2020 has been approved by eighty-six regular staff, while for the corresponding 2021 additional 100 posts have been approved to meet the needs of the organisation. By extension, even in these circumstances we are experiencing, we are trying to serve as best as we can, with the aim of providing more effective and faster service and less suffering for the insured, obviously and of the categories that you have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u311	Thank you. We continue with the twelfth under No 524/8-32021 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in applying Law 4670/2020 for the over thirty years of pensioners' insurance". Mr Colleague, please, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, our question to the Minister concerns the unjustified delay in applying Law 4670/2020 for those over thirty years of pensionable insurance. One year, Minister, after the vote on Law 4670/2020, the relevant e-ECA software for recalculating pensions for the over thirty years of insurance and paying the corrected pension amounts remains, unfortunately, a request. To date, at least, there is no official information and no information. It is known that for those who have been retired with more than thirty years of insurance, the rate of the reimbursement of the pension is increased by 0.56% to thirty-one years, by 3.5% to thirty-five years and so on. In addition, the adjustment – increase in the replacement coefficient has been postponed with effect from 1 October 2019, in accordance with the relevant decision of the Council of State, which corrected the arbitrary nature of Law No.4387/2016 and has therefore necessarily been included in Law No.4670/2020. In February 2020, the law was passed to date, although more than twelve months have passed, Minister, unfortunately, the relevant software has not been completed to implement the relevant pension recalculation. The original announcements - promises had a timetable in December 2020. Unfortunately, it has not been implemented so far. And ask in particular: What is the new schedule for the implementation and payment of pensioners' retroactives with a retirement start date from 13 May 2016? Secondly, what is the corresponding timeframe for the recalculation of pensions before 13 May 2016 of pensioners and payment of the retrospectively any personal difference that exists and stems from this provision? Finally, can you tell us in particular what these pensioners are before and after Law No4387/2016 who are entitled retroactively, because of the application of this legislative framework, overall and per former insurance fund? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u313	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u314	Thank you again, Mr President, as well as Mr Mulkiotis. With your question, Mr Mulkiotis, you are bringing back to the public debate an issue with which we are employed every day in the Ministry of Labour. Both outstanding pensions and, more generally, outstandings arising from the multi-legislation governing the pension scheme in the country are a matter for the leadership of our ministry, a matter of real priority. In fact, two days ago, namely, on Wednesday, March 10, 2021, the platform for the digital application for a pension advance was run. The platform is available through the single digital portal of the public, the Gov.gr, as well as via the official website of e-ECA. In relation to your question, the pensioners you refer to belong to two categories: Those whose pensions were awarded before the Katorugalos Act, that is, 13 May 2016, and those whose pensions were awarded after this date. In fact, in this last category, there is still a distinction between those who started paying before and after 1 October 2019. For pensions starting from 1 October 2019 and from 13 January 2021, the relevant application has already been put into production. Pensions are calculated at the increased rate of replacement and are already paid with the pensions of the current month of March 2021. The entitlements will be paid retroactively to a subsequent payment of the pension. However, these are calculated. For the second category, now, that is to say those whose start of payment is from 13 May 2016 to 30 September 2019, according to the assurances I received from the administration of EKKA, this application is at the final stage of implementation, i.e. they have completed their tests and so on, with a time horizon for payment within the next two months. Now, as regards the cases of pensioners who have the right before 13 May 2016, every effort is being made to make it possible to recalculate for this category of insured persons too very soon. In fact, in this last category, I have just signed the relevant ministerial decision, namely the recalculation. The Ministerial Decision signed relates to general public and private pensions. It consists of seven articles relating to its scope, the pension adjustment rules, pension remuneration, the replacement rates, the years of insurance, the determination of pension payable from 1 October 2019 and the adjustment procedure. Every pensioner before 2016 will receive at least what he received, if not more. For those with over thirty years of insurance, their pensions will be adjusted upwards. A share of this will also see an increase in net pension payments, while others will limit the amount of the so-called personal difference. Any retrospectives that will arise for pensioners for the period after October 2019 until the adjustment period will be paid. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] For the second part of your question, because my time is over, I shall refer to my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u315	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. We will not say that you are not concerned, at least because we believe that you have inherited it, and that is the achilled heel of the procedure, when there is a pension and there are promises in repetition of the government. I wish, because you said it was a priority, that we have immediate solutions. But what you said, do we think that all these charges will begin to be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u317	One is already paid, the other is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u318	It's understandable. The one that's already paid, I don't talk about it. The other two charges?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u319	Two of three, yes, we're trying for the third.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, we must have a clear picture and an answer in the sense that there is a veil, not a mystery, but ambiguity in general. There are constant reports. There is also a confusion among pensioners in the world. You told me about the two charges and that for the third charge you're fighting, I understand. So we see from what you say that only one section is satisfied at the moment. So we're waiting for the other two sections. I hope and hope, at the end of May, that I will not go into the difficult position to express the same question - because we are expressing the pensioners - for which it has to be done for about a year or so. I believe and hope, therefore, that what you have said and you promise the House today that the two accusations will have been implemented. For the third category, we would like to hear what stage it is, Minister. How's the situation around there? How do you define it, in that something must exist? Because the digital EBRD, twelve months after the vote, unfortunately, is not in place, neither the new increased replacement rates nor the new reduction rate, nor does it settle and implement the fines in the event of a non-retirementist employment statement. In other words, he submits a pension application with Law 4670 and his pension is calculated on the basis of the Katrugalos Act. It's an unfavourable situation. With the Circular of the Ministry, Minister, to recalculate pensions with Law 4670 there is one problem: Those who retired before May 13, 2016 by the Katorugalos Law and submitted an additional period of insurance over thirty years after May 13, 2016, this year does not count the system. So the recalculations for them will leave this insurance time outside the recalculation of Law4670/2020. This is an issue, which is a real issue and there is a great problem. Also, let me tell you that in the former TAP - OTE there are about three hundred pensioners who have submitted additional time - two, three, four years - after retirement and after 13 May 2016 and according to the circular, they are also left outside. These are issues which the Ministry needs to see because they are still pending and problems arise for pensioners. Also, the necessary software has not been arranged. About sixty-five thousand pensioners are in parallel insurance. They're doctors, lawyers, engineers. We've said it here some other time. There is a question about these categories and they are in vain expectation of their retirement. These are issues which, Minister, are of concern to everyone. The papers are on their way. You see them yourself at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u321	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u322	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll testify to you. For example, on 20 February we have a report on when the retrospectives will get in. On March 9, 2021, we have a report on when the retrospectives will get in. Recently, we have the question of when the retrospectives will be given. There's a confusion. It is not appropriate for anyone to be confused with the people insured with the problems they have. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u323	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, first of all, you raised a number of questions you did not have in your question and obviously I am not prepared to answer them. If you want, give me information and I will be able to give you the relevant information. On the main issue, which you have said, you must be absolutely sure that we are working on a daily basis to solve exactly these problems. We too recognise that these are the big problems and that we are paying attention to them. We understand that these problems have been afflicting citizens for many years and really, we need to do something to solve them. In your question you ask to know the number of pensioners affected by the application of the recalculations. According to the information provided to me by e-FECA, pensioners affected by the application of these provisions and who were awarded a pension before the law of Katrugalou, i.e. before 13 May 2016, amount to seven hundred six hundred and fifty-three thousand, while those whose pensions were awarded after the adoption of the Katrugalos law and are entitled retrospectively, are a hundred and forty - nine thousand twenty - five people. The recalculations for all these categories of pensioners are, in fact, the last important step towards compliance with the decisions of the Council of State of September 2019 and in conjunction with the other recent measures to accelerate the award of pensions complement the action plan of the Government and the Ministry towards normalising the functioning of our insurance system. Obviously, one can talk about errors and delays and failures. We recognise that the delays in total on pension outstandings certainly do not provide a price for any of the parties involved. However, I would like to assure you, Mr Mulkiotis, that we are doing everything that is humanely possible so that soon the situation will improve for both the insured and the retired, with structural movements, which we have already undertaken and continue to carry out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u325	The first question with number 3441/21-1-2021 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Kavala's circle of petitions - Progressive Alliance Mr Sultana (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Characterisation of enterprises active in the New Karvals Lipatos plant as co-responsible" and the third question with number 3697/29-1-2021 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Kavala's cycle - Progressive Alliance Mr Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Authorised use of a fixed-term contract (Article 8 paragraph). 3 N. 2112/1920 - protection against abuse resulting from the unjustified - unobjective - use of fixed-term contracts) by the company of the Kavala Fertilizers plant, which refer to the same subject, will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of the speaker in its time of speech, in application of the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for four minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, we are discussing two questions that have been asked for some time now and have not been answered. The first is to ensure that the e-ECA's financial requirements are met, and the other is to ensure the working rights of hundreds of workers. The public on these questions is not their point, but the subject of the violation, that is, Mr Laurentis Laurentiades, who, as you know very well, exploits the only fertiliser plant in Kavala. You granted it to him in 2008, after welcoming him with grounds and branches in my city. So I'm telling you one more time. We've been through this. In 2015, Mr Laurentiadis, being in front of bank payment orders, but also of great debts, and fearing that SYRIZA will control all of this and claim their repayment and possibly lose the factory, began to display foreign newly established companies, which had no activity in the past, no assets, no worker, had a non-destructive capital and left ELFE a deaf ear and transferred the factory's licence to them, with the risk that ELFE's hundreds of millions of euros of public debts would not be repaid to the public, to the EFKA and to the banks. SYRIZA then, wishing to ensure that the debts to e-ECA are paid, under the decision of the CRL No. 99/3.1.2017, following an investigation and under the opinion of the Legal Council of State No. 732/1995 and the Circular of ECA 1796, decided that all companies operating in the factory are characterised as co-responsible for their debts, as it emerged after an investigation that they have the same activity, operate in the same workplace and serve the same business interests. SYRIZA was therefore promptly ordered to register this information in the Integrated Information System Employers' Register, as defined in Circular 97/2011, making the above companies accountable for their dues that existed or would exist in the future. Since the adoption of this decision, three other companies have been created and appeared at the factory: "KAVAL LEVELS OF LEVELS. Sub-State of EXCHANGE’, ‘REVERA HOLDINGS LTD’ and ‘CERTORIUS LTD’. Therefore, if the conditions were met in the past and the previous companies were to be co-responsible - and indeed they are met - because these companies also have a common seat: Pentelis 24, Palaio Faliro Attica, where the ELFE ABE has been based, they had no activity, no worker, etc. -, we ask you whether the 2017 Decisions of the CRL and of the e-ECA, if an appeal has been brought against them and the result thereof, to what extent are the debts of all these companies, if you will proceed to a new classification decision as co-responsible for all three new companies? My second question concerns the abuse of fixed-term contracts by Mr Laurentiadis. Usually, Minister, we come here and talk about two-speed workers, about those who enjoy the rules of labour law and work with full-time contracts and those who, because their employer considers that they do not meet fixed and continuous needs, or rather falsely claims that they do not meet fixed and permanent needs, are working under full-time slavery on a full-time basis. But until now in Greece - and that is why we have never insisted - no employer dared to operate a chemical industry, a whole factory of five hundred workers, only with workers who have signed fixed-term contracts. It's never happened! Only Mr Laurentiadis dared this, in your own tolerance, without being justified either by the form and type of business, as we speak of a chemical industry, or by special reasons or needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u327	My colleague, you have your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u328	We therefore ask, if you have confirmed, as far as I know, this violation of the law, what your Ministry will do to bring working normality to the plant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u329	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Eleftheriadou, I shall refer to the first of the two issues which your question raises, namely co-responsibility. Work will cover it in dentistry. The issue you raise in the public debate, which concerns businesses operating at the New Carvala Fertilizer plant, has been specifically concerned over the last four years with the services involved. In your question about corporate co-responsibility in respect of their insurance obligations you put six questions, to which I shall reply in accordance with the information provided by the relevant directorates of e-ECA and the CRL and in accordance with Opinion 732/1995 of the Legal Council of State. According to the information we have from the Directorate-General for Audit of EFCA, the House has already been informed in response to a corresponding question from 14-120. In other words, there is a mandate to carry out audits on the companies mentioned in your question in order to make decisions by the competent authorities of the ECAA regarding the co-responsibility of these companies. The result of the company audit was the adoption of a decision by the Director of the Second Local Responsibility Branch of Attica and the South of Kallithea based in Kalithea on the co-responsibility of seven companies, including the companies "Kallithea KAVALAS S.A.". DETAILED DESCRIPTION AND ‘REVERA HOLDINGS LTD ATHENS’ In addition, the co-responsibility decision issued by the 2nd Local Department of Athletics, Athens - South Sector, is in force, as a complaint has been lodged with the Local Administrative Commission by the co-responsible companies, but a rejection decision has been issued. The decision to co-responsibility of the F Responsibility Department of Attica - Piraeus - Piraeus-based islands is also in force. The companies in question appealed to the Administrative Court of Piraeus on the date of judgment 3-11-2020, without any decision having been notified until now. The company ‘Certorius LTD. Branches of Greece, which launched the TAXIS system on 5-10-2020 and the ELKA on 25-11-2020, has already been instructed by the regional audit centres responsible for the insurance of Attica and Central Macedonia to carry out audits and to pass on the results of their audit to the 2nd Local Branch of Attica-South Islands, which is responsible for the adoption or non-responsibility of the co-responsibility decision. I shall then refer to the question of the certified debts to the insurance funds, as well as the measures already taken to recover these debts from three companies. “Software” specially designed or modified for the “use” of equipment DETAILED DESCRIPTION SUBMITTED’ has a debt of EUR 1,018.568. He started TAXIS on 13-12-2019 and EVKA on 18-12-2019. It has been regulated, but which lost in June 2020. Contingent recovery measures, however, were not taken by the CRL in the context of the emergency situation in which the country came from the pandemic and the continued prolongation of enforcement operations. REVERA HOLDINGS LTD - ATHENS has liabilities of EUR 3,433,556. The debts were included in a set, which the debtor lost in August 2020. And in this case, what I said before applies. The third company, the ‘CERTORIUS LTD’, has no certified debts. According to the APRC, it started operations in TAXIS on 15-10-2020 and started in the CAR on 25-11-2020. Finally, with regard to the classification of ‘PFIC LTD’ and ‘ELLAGROLIP’. Anonymous Industrial and Commercial Company, as co-responsible, the issue is dealt with by the Directorate-General for Taxation and Control of the ECA. It appears from the relevant services that the debts that have already been created are high and appear to be created in a systematic manner. In any case until now, all the necessary checks have been carried out by the ECA and the CRL and the competent authorities will proceed to take the necessary steps to recover the insurance contributions as soon as the situation of the exceptional circumstances of the COVID pandemic has ended -19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u331	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. That is not right. The Minister cannot answer his point of view on one question and on the other, because I do not have a trilogy to answer my second question and you said that we would lose no right. Let me remind you that it was the Minister's request to discuss the two questions together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u333	Can I tell you something? We cannot tell either the Member or the Minister about the question or the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u334	But you can understand that this is where the procedure is being violated. I agreed that questions should be discussed together. I will not, however, have the opportunity to respond secondly to my second question, which is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u335	Unfortunately, as parliamentarians, we never had this opportunity. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u336	Minister, I think you understand. I would prefer to hear your second answer as well and give you a little more time for the second question, so that I too can answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u337	Madam Colleague, what you're talking about is not going to do. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u338	That is not the case, you're telling me, but it can't be what is happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u339	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u340	I agreed that questions should be discussed together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u341	Please. In any case, unfortunately or happily, the ministers always have this possibility with all governments...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u342	After all, you've obviously decided we won't get any answers. That's what you've decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u343	Governments, like the previous SYRIZA government, behaved in the same way. The Minister was talking. Other ministers responded, others did not respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u344	Yes, but you said at the outset that we would lose no right from the simultaneous debate on the two questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u345	But you've decided that, you've made a codecision. Please move on to your dentistry, the Minister will answer. In what has not answered, you ask again a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u346	I'll ask again a question. Let the Minister be sure. Minister, I didn't really understand what you said. I will obviously read it in the Minutes. I would like to inform you that, because you told me that arrangements have been lost, ELFE ABE is a deaf and has no activity. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that he owes FEKA millions. The company ‘LEMPAMAS NEWS KARVAL S.A.’ also has no activity and has disappeared from the factory. ‘CENTROFARO SERVICES LTD’, also has no activity and has disappeared from the factory and the ‘REVERA HOLDINGS LTD’, also has no activity and has disappeared from the factory. And if I listened well, you said that they have millions of debts and have made arrangements, which they have lost. I tell you to write it in the Minutes, move it quickly and move it, to be co-responsible and the new companies for their debts. What can I tell you now? It is well known all about what is happening in the factory and it is also known that your party has been identified over time with Mr Laurentiadis both centrally and locally, not only with his support, but also with his cover for violations. I hope you're denying me in your dentistry, although I won't be able to answer you. However, if you read the document you sent me under Protocol No 164E9/3.3.21 and not answer me about what you will do for the hundreds of workers in the factory, then I tell you that I do not need you to explain the law. You have allegedly sent me an answer, to which you refer excerpts from judicial decisions or from legal books on what applies to fixed-term contracts. And in the end what do you say? In the end you accept that there is infringing behaviour in the factory. You are referring to a response from the APRC which says that in fact all workers in the factory are working on fixed-term contracts. What else do you think? You're saying the RCF hasn't received any complaints. The APRC assures you that five hundred people in the chemical industry are working with fixed-term contracts, but it has not received any complaint. He's known about it for six years, but he hasn't got any complaints! And what do you obviously tell me, referring to a court ruling? The most important thing is private negotiation when we conclude a contract. So, what are you talking about? That the worker, who is afraid that if he does not sign the contract, will be fired, has the same rights, he has the same power as Mr Laurentiadis! You tell me that all these workers in the factory want to be on fixed-term contracts, not to have any right to work! Because in the case of Franco-German contracts, I have seen them - and I will present them to you in the next question, because I am sure you will not answer me today - and the Ministry will not do anything at all. So I expect to hear, even if the procedure is not right, what you will do. The plant is a high-risk chemical industry and does not have a single worker on an indefinite contract. Not even one! This is unprecedented for Greek data. Will you dare take Mr. Laurentiades to a process, to a process of legality, or will you leave the workers with ballast, because they do not go to denounce the Kavalas SAR? We know very well what Kavala is doing. The Kavala SCE currently has hundreds of responsible statements calling for the criminal prosecution of Mr. Laurentiadis and does not take them to the prosecutor at the moment we are talking about! - and I'll file these responsible statements with the D.A. to see if you'll take them to the D.A. A solution must be found to the plant issue. Mr Laurentiadis may have his own views on how he wants to treat his employees. We have also seen them behave in ALAPIS and other companies. But you are the Ministry of Labour and this creates a bad precedent, a very bad precedent, and it trespasses all the rules of labour law. I want an answer. The Kavala RCF confirmed my own - within introductorys - 'complaint'. I want you to tell me what your ministry will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u347	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Eleftheriadou, I'm not going to trial intents. I will look to answer the questions that you have put to me and according to the information I have received from the services. According to the ERGAN system, all employees employed by the four companies mentioned in your question, i.e. ‘PFIC LTD’, ‘CERTORIUS LTD’, ‘CERTORIUS LTD’, are working under full-time contracts. All three of the four companies employ sixty-seven and sixty-six persons with full-time contracts in the region of Kavala, while the fourth company, ELLAGROLIPA SA, employs fifty-two persons with full-time contracts, but according to the latest audit of the EIA none of them employs at the plant facilities in Kavala. The analytical picture of the type of employment contracts, by which the relevant recruitments have been carried out, according to an audit carried out only yesterday by the relevant Department of the Kavala Labour Inspectorate in the area of the New Carval Fertilizers plant, is - and is not far from what Mrs Eleftheriad said earlier - the following: The 'PFIC LTD' currently employs eighty-two employees, one employee only on an indefinite basis and eighty-one on a fixed-term contract of three months to two and a half years. As regards the control of contracts, it was not found that the contracts would exceed three years, which is the limit imposed by the law. In CARBON SUBSTITUTIONS a hundred and thirty-two employees have signed fixed-term contracts between three months and one year. The contract starts from 1-1-2020 and the company starts operations at the ECA on 18-12-2019. CERTORIUS LTD employs four hundred and sixty-two employees. All employees have signed fixed-term contracts from three months to one year with full-time employment. The contract starts from 1 January 2021. The company started work on the FBI just three and a half months ago, namely 25-11-2020. Finally, the fourth company, the ‘ELLAGROLIP ABEU’, to which you refer in your question, according to yesterday's investigation, does not employ staff at the premises of Kavala, as I said before. The staff are fifty-two and employed in offices of business in Athens. According to the ERGAN system, the twelve employees have contracts with an indefinite duration and the forty fixed-term contracts. All contracts, as I have said before, are full-time. In other words, there is no part-time contract and no rotation of work. To date no complaints have been filed with the local labour inspectorate in Kavala, nor have work disputes been made about workers' contracts. The AAR’s audit data shows that the company is moving within the limits of legality. Finally, according to the EPRD data, a total of fifty-seven audits have been carried out since 2015 by labour inspectors at the premises of companies operating in Kavala Fertilisers. There are protection provisions for workers under fixed-term contracts by e.g. 8/2003 and 180/2004, as well as under Law 3986/2011. In particular, it is expressly stated that no renewal of fixedterm employment contracts is permitted if justified by an objective reason. And objective reasons, according to the law, arise if it is justified by the form, type or activity of the undertaking or by specific reasons or needs, such as the execution of transmissible or temporary cumulation of work or the conduct of a specific project. It shall also establish a fighting presumption in favour of the worker as covering the firm's standing and lasting needs, resulting in the conversion of such contracts into contracts or employment relationships for an indefinite duration, where the duration of successive contracts or employment relationships exceeds a total of three years or where the number of renewals of contracts in the same period exceeds three years. In this case, the burden of proof is borne by the employer. It is also laid down that fixed-term contracts are considered sequential when no longer than 40 calendar days have elapsed. Consequently, on the basis of the practices of existing undertakings, it does not appear that, at least, they infringe the relevant legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u349	We continue with the third under No 513/2-3-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Congressman Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Payment of allowances to Halkidiki enterprises affected by the theory of July 10, 2019". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Mr. Pana, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u350	Thank you very much, Mr President. The theory of July 10, 2019, was a unique phenomenon in Halkidiki. There have been extensive catastrophes in people, in Halkidiki and incalculable damage to a large number of businesses, and this is why we have come here today, Minister, to discuss this issue. Despite the measures announced by the relevant Ministries to support affected Halkidiki residents and businesses, and despite the fact that almost two years have passed since the natural disaster, the relevant funds have not yet been disbursed. The question also arises from the fact that while they went to the regions and carried out the required self-conscious steps of the Directorate-General for Disaster Restoration and the North Greek Natural Disaster Restoration Department, so far no company has received compensation for the damage suffered. We must point out here, Minister, that most of the people affected have borrowed themselves, so that they continue their economic activity unreservedly and are trying in every way to survive, having to deal with the unprecedented problems caused by the pandemic. I have also stressed this difficult situation with similar parliamentary interventions, calling for the immediate payment of compensation to the affected 2019 and their businesses. For these reasons, Minister, I would like to ask you: is the procedure for the payment of compensation to undertakings affected by the 2019 disaster in Halkidiki? Do you intend to speed up the process to directly disburse the relevant funds and provide compensation to the beneficiaries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u351	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, thank you. The tents of this Bible catastrophe that took place in Halkidiki in July 2019, especially in the summer, are vivid even today, which reminds us of the time that we have lived. It is precisely for this natural disaster that the Central Greek Natural Disaster Rehabilitation Department, which is a responsible agency, has issued the relevant CSR since November 5, 2019. It demarcates the areas of Halkidiki and defines the conditions and conditions for housing assistance to the owners of the affected buildings. These include buildings belonging to undertakings to restore their losses. All necessary ministerial decisions concerning the time limits and the procedure for granting legal aid have also been adopted. Up to now, two hundred seventy applications have been submitted to the North Greek Natural Disaster Rehabilitation Department, of which 12 relate to buildings belonging to businesses. As the Ministry of Infrastructure's Directorate-General for Rehabilitation of Physical Disasters informs us, the majority of applications were submitted only in December 2020 and January 2021, before the deadlines expired and most of them, including the buildings of the enterprises, are of fundamental shortages. And what do I mean by flaws? Deficiencies relating to supporting documents to prove the non-forestry character of the property and proof of the property. These are, of course, essential elements in order to be able to demand compensation. The Natural Disaster Restoration Department of Northern Greece is endeavouring to issue repair permits, which do not present any problems in Forestry and property, in order to supplement the shortcomings and carry out autopsy in buildings that are permanent housing and business. With regard to the powers of the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible, as you know, for the compensation of undertakings from natural disasters, pursuant to Article 36 of Law 2459/1997 and after the issue of the Ministry of Finance, Development and Infrastructure, I would like to inform you of the following. The Region of Central Macedonia sent on 27 January 2021 situations of businesses which have suffered damage to this theory we are talking about. The document included a protocol number of January 25, 2021 from the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate for Financial Policy processes these situations, precisely to proceed with the issue of the relevant CST for compensation. Therefore, Mr Papoutsis, you should very soon expect the CSR to be issued and the affected will obviously be compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Minister. With your relative position, I am able to stress that, after the destructive theory of Halkidiki, they also took place at later intervals and other extraordinary, intense and extreme phenomena, as in other parts of the country. I would mention the bad weather of "Thalia", the cyclone "Janus", the "Hephaiston". There we find that state aid was immediate, as they were disbursed in these areas in a short period of time, compensation, and this unfortunately did not happen in Halkidiki. That's a reality. It is understandable and I recognise that you are doing your utmost to address the problems that arise, but the reality of Halkidiki at the moment is different. I am in this case holding your own commitment, from the institutional position you have, that these allowances will proceed as soon as possible. Because as you can see, Minister, Halkidiki is still in the new lockdown, eight months in a situation like this. Entrepreneurs and all these businesses, which have been affected, but also permanent dwellings, need up to the last euro, because it is very difficult to survive. When such a great disaster has been done and as the problems are growing through the coronary, it is necessary to provide immediate assistance from the state. I, from today's debate, would like to believe that, regardless of the technical difficulties that exist through the region, you will be issued by the OSH for these enterprises, as directly and as quickly as possible, in order to obtain their compensation. This is, of course, a solid request, not only mine, but also institutions in Halkidiki, who have been placed accordingly and are waiting for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u355	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. As I have explained in my prototype, all the necessary steps have now been taken and they are also speeding up - and it happens that the address is under my authority - all the things that need to be done so that compensation can be given within a very short period of time. But you realise that this series of famous documents does not exist and it is precisely the services and the region of Central Macedonia, which sent them to us on 27 January. You give me the opportunity to point out what we as the Ministry of Finance have done as part of our powers to improve precisely the institutional framework, so that it can simplify and accelerate the process of granting the firms that have been affected. Halkidiki's destruction took place, as you will remember, a few days just after New Democracy took over. Until then, the institutional framework for compensation was to be paid after years, as is the case now in the case of Halkidiki, where more than a year has passed, while in other cases of natural disasters more than years have passed. We, by amending the institutional framework, which we made on 28 September 2020, have given exactly the opportunity in exceptional cases, where we have significant and extensive damages, both in a number of firms affected and in the size of the disaster, to be able to provide an advance on the total amount of the grant. In order to speed up the process, this amendment enables each region to submit every fortnight to the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Finance with undertakings affected and for which the assessment and recording of losses has been completed, in order to issue continuous and uninterrupted company grant certificates according to the progress made in recording losses by the Commission, for example in the case of 'Janue'. We also enabled the committees of the regions that assess and record damage to enterprises affected by natural disasters and public service employees, studies of the Technical Chamber of Greece, the Economic Chamber of Greece, as well as the Agricultural Chamber of Greece. The participation of all those who have specialised knowledge makes it possible to record and estimate losses more quickly and thus to pay the compensation in question more quickly. Moreover, for the greater and better service of citizens, a certificate of the Court of First Instance is now required for bankruptcy issued in the last three months and not for one month, as was the case earlier. In any case, I repeat again and I assure you that we are doing our utmost to ensure that in the case of Halkidiki, which was seriously affected, the compensation to the affected will be paid as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the first under No 514/4-3-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Lambropoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Forest Maps'. Here, Mr Lambropoulos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the problem of so-called "forestry" is great and is afflicting too many people throughout Greece. And I say "fresh forests", because when a farm, a farm, is abandoned a little or because of a lack of mechanical farming, they grow some nests, some shawl, some wag, comes the Forestry and says it's forest. This is how the Maniotians have lost their properties. People don't know anything today. And this is not only the case in Mani, but also in many other areas of Messinia. If SYRIZA had accepted and amended Article 24 of the Constitution, and even with the last amendment made, many, many problems would have been solved. Unfortunately, he did not accept while he also made it with the forest maps and now the cosmakis pays them. So I have, Minister, to briefly ask you a few questions and you can be sure that the world is waiting for answers. And I am sure that you have the knowledge, but also the good will to answer and give the world hope. Firstly, will new arrangements be introduced to solve the problems of citizens associated with their property, particularly in the rural areas of the country? Secondly, will solutions be found with the forested fields, in other words with the formerly cultivated areas which have later been forested and are now in the form of forests or forests? They've got mandarins, they've got olives, they've got walnuts. Looks like there was culture there. All of Manny was cultivated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Third, the law provides for the compulsory existence of property titles before 8-8-2004. Will this be changed for those who do not hold a title before that date? What will happen in many cases when the transfer of property has become informal or by reason or even with informal concessions from parents to children? There's nowhere in the Mann Convention, Minister. It can't be. There couldn't be. Fourth...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Colleague, you can continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u360	I'll take a minute from my dentistry, Mr. President. Fourthly, will the right to request manifest errors be granted so that many citizens can claim their rights to the theme content of the new forest maps? Fifthly, why are the 1975 aerial photographs not taken as a dominant element and as consultative 1945? Sixth, will the forestry services accept the usage declarations? Seventhly, will the question of subsidizing regional forest services with permanent staff be resolved? In Messinia they have about sixteen thousand objections. How can these people get through? Staff must be recruited, measures must be taken, we must provide solutions, Minister. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u361	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u362	Dear Mr. Lambropoulos, thank you for the question. You raised important issues and I am here to answer everything. Clearly I fully understand your interest in the issues that you raised, which, to a large extent, you know, appear in other parts of Greece and not just in Mani. First of all, I would like to assure you that we are working, so that not only for Mani, but also for any part of Greece, can achieve what is constitutionally self-evident, that is, the forest - and that is the concept of the forest map - to protect, which says the Constitution, as a public natural resource, but clearly to protect and safeguard the legitimate rights of owners of land owners and farmers. That is the aim of Law 4685-2020, which we voted together last year. Thanks to this law, we unblocked too many procedures because, as you quite rightly said, the SYRIZA government had done it, let's say it as you said, a mess on the forest maps. For 52% of the forest maps posted on SYRIZA, a hundred eighty thousand objections were filed and it would take about twenty or at best fifteen years to examine half the maps. So today, Mr Lambropoulos, I announce that we have posted 100% of the Greek territory, that is, we have taken a very big step towards resolving the issues you mentioned. More specifically, report the wooded fields. There is, of course, a question because, after 1945, many of our compatriots have abandoned our villages and their fields have been forested, so they now appear as wooded with various effects on this property. But we are not going to leave this issue. I would also like to inform you, Mr President, Mr Lambropoulos, that in our Ministry, the Ministry of the Environment, we have set up a working group on a number of prefectures, made up of well-known lawyers, forestists and market scholars, so that we can provide solutions to many of them, if not all, with the problems you have raised. For example, we are considering the process of speeding up actions for efficiency, that is, with regard to forests. We are relying on Article 67 of Law 998/1979, in which, of course, the article expressly stipulates that there may also be agro-foodstuffs plantation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We see this issue, as we also see, Mr Lambropoulos, and the problem of the outdated former forest land and the last seventy, eighty years of cultivated land. With regard to the right to object at this stage, the maps that have been ratified, that is to say, even be 'locked', today and during the course of the work of the forest maps, will be allowed, and will be allowed, to object to the procedure of manifestly wrong free of charge, without paying anything for the citizen. So even for the parts of the forest maps that did not appear in the last postings, since in the previous suspension procedure no objection had been raised, but even for these "closed" pieces of the map can be said, people who are staying in Mani, Messinia and anywhere in Greece free to initiate the process of manifest error. And the forest service of decentralised administration is obliged to correct the map by taking the elements that the citizen brings. As regards the subsistence you have said, I will tell you very quickly that we are on the one hand moving towards the recruitment of seven hundred people for forestry services. The two hundred fifty will be forestists, the hundred fifty will be commanders and the rest will be foresters. These seven hundred people will serve the forest services of decentralised administrations to contribute, to the work of forest maps. You also raised a large number of objections in your area. The committees for examining objections will not be there alone. I note here that these committees consist of three people, one legal person as President, one engineer and one forestist. So these opposition committees will not consider one, one of these thousands of objections you have said, but they will take the job almost ready, classified by objection, by category of objection, and all objections will be dealt with and resolved very quickly. The rest of it will be in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary, I have to thank you, because in a short time you have gone to your State Office and the responsibilities you have, because I have been working on forests for many years, I have understood that you have studied, you have indeed bent on the problems and you are ready to give solutions. You will be setting up a committee that will study everything is even more positive. Questions are specific. I am also pleased that you have fully understood this. There are people who have a farm built by their father, their grandfather, with a lot of blood. We know where we come from from villages how they made the land with the casma, with the axe. They've been fighting all day to build a farm. This is how the Greek countryside became. That's how the farm income was increased. Real estate took place in twenty, thirty years. And now the state will come to say to him "You know, bring it here, isn't it yours?" But these are absurd things! It may have ten acres and in the middle there's a burlap and it says to him "No, it's not yours, it's a forest"! These things we have to solve. People will breathe. The world will be happy, it will be relieved, because the Greeks are tied to what he inherited from his father, from his grandfather. I'm telling you, Manny is struggling. From outside the villages, a few meters from their homes, they don't define anything. And it's not just Manny. There are many regions of Messinia and Greece, as you have rightly said. Thank you again. I believe that you will give the solutions you need. This is where we all have to be permanent, and we all have to agree. Some should not see it politically and be negative, because everyone is afflicted, even voters of SYRIZA and the Left, as well as voters belonging to all parties. It is a problem that is afflicting the countryside. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u365	Be well. Here, Minister, you have the floor. But I hope you're in time. We took five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u366	Of course, of course. Because I've taken more time in protology, I'll be shorter now. Mr Lambropoulou, you are making this very clear. You have set the very foundations and outlines of the matter. Forest maps do not cause problems or problems are created by forest maps. The forest maps are the occasion - to say this - to show problems of many decades on the surface. What you mentioned just as you mentioned applies from the 1950s to the present day. As far as Mani is concerned, there are issues that have their roots much older than 1870. So I want to assure you that we in the face of all these issues and we will give a solution to everything. Specifically for the Mani area you refer to, in accordance with Article 62 of Law 998/1979, as it is known that it has been excluded from the obligation, that is to say, the burden of proof, of property or of non-rights. To say this more simply, in Mani, as in other regions, in Crete, in Ionian Islands, in Cyclades, in the islands of the northern Aegean, the presumption of ownership for the public does not apply. Of course, we know that in Mani, as in other parts of the country, there was perhaps a different tradition of ownership. We have cases - and that is why I say that now forest maps are the reason for unsolved problems to come to the surface for many decades now - where the Moroccans have been burned and thus deprived of titles in their hands by landowners. I would therefore like to assure you, Mr Lambropoulou, that the Ministry of the Environment and the Government will in every way ensure the legitimate rights of anyone who owns land, grows it, whether he is a farmer or a farmer. In particular, for Mani, we know about the issues, because you too - and I am allowed to say so publicly, by kindling it out - you have not left us in peace, as you are constantly transferring the problems of the Messinia Prefecture. You're bringing us cases. As you will have seen, I imagine, every time we answer and put matters in order. As I told you before, we have this working party, which we have fed to us with what you and other colleagues from all parties have sent us, because we want, as I have said, to solve the problems. We look at them in the face and let them be a hundred-five-year-old problem. This government has come to solve problems, to ensure the interests of people living from their land, and very clearly to protect the forest, because the forest and the landscape of the Greek give the added value to everything we do in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u367	We continue with the first under No 517/4-3-2021 topical question from the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Lesvos of the New Democracy. Charalambous Athanasios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Questions that arise in the Lesvos Prefecture and not just from the suspension of forest maps". Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, I must point out that you have just taken up your duties at the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, and immediately understood this vital problem that concerns all Greece and offered a good deal of praise to all Members from all over the country, in order to hear the problems that have arisen. And that's what we need to recognize. Now, with the recent suspension of forest maps, the following problems are presented in many parts of Greece, but I will confine myself to my particular area, the Lesvos Prefecture. 60% of the land on the island of Lesvos and 40% of Chios have been classified as forest grassland. The majority of these lands are private land, the so-called 'agricultural pastures', which have been cultivated for hundreds of years with fodder crops and are then used as pastures or exclusively for grazing ovine and caprine animals. There are private areas with olive crops. In fact, many areas of them, Mr Minister, because they have entered the biological programme, are banned from racing. By not sewing, the so-called 'weeds' are developed, i.e. the bushes of the small ones who seem to be a forest or grassland, which is certainly not in line with reality. In many cases, too, final judgments of courts, but also final decisions of Characterism Committees that declassify an area as forest or grassland, have not even been taken into account in the maps that have been posted. In addition, there is a serious issue with regard to the characterisation and ownership of landed land and forested fields. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll take my dentistry, too. The above raises serious issues of confusion among the hundreds of owners of several thousand acres in the Lesvos Prefecture, which are essentially called upon to claim long and costly procedures for their property that hold continuously and continuously whole generations. This is because the designation of an area as a grassland requires, in accordance with the existing legislation, that owners hold strong titles of ownership, such as lots, exchangeable land and settlement. No account has been taken of the secondary method of acquisition of ownership which is the inheritance, parental benefits, sales. They have not been taken into account. And they have still not been taken into account, when these derivatives are used up to the acquisition of a prototype title, that is, by extraordinary use, which is unprecedented for our basic legislation and case law. That is why, Minister, the question is what initiatives the Ministry of the Environment and Energy intends to take to deal with the issues that arise so that no property is lost, either by the owners or by farmers. Secondly, there is a delicate issue, Minister, which we have discussed and I think you will answer today. We must not lose the subsidies it receives from OPEKEPE because of this situation created by forest maps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u369	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, your question is very essential. I will start by telling you what I was initially thinking to tell you at the end as a conclusion. The owners, the farmers who have been cultivating land for years, as you mentioned, from grandfather to grandfather, will in no case be subject to the slightest risk. No property will be affected. No farm will be affected. We will respect the legitimacy and protect anyone's legitimate rights. As far as OPEKEPE and subsidies are concerned, we are emphatic about the fact that none or any of the forestry maps will be affected as they are in the case of subsidies. I said earlier to my dear colleague Mr Lambropoulos, Mr President, that we have set up a working group in the prefecture in the Ministry that he has taken, and he looks at all these issues that you mentioned in two ways and thematically and horizontally, such as outdated fields, forested fields, what is going on with the issue of private citizens' ownership over the public where there is or is not the presumption of ownership on behalf of the public. All this is being considered by the committee. And, of course, in line with both the Constitution and the decisions of the Council of State, it will give us its legal proposals so that we can close these issues which have been pending for decades. I said before that we face and come to the surface issues that have their roots in 1850. For Lesvos in particular, I would like to say that 60% of the land in Lesvos and 40% in Lesvos have been classified as forest and grassland and that the majority of these lands are private land. Most of these are pastures or crops with fodder plants. The forest maps therefore illustrate the limits of forest land and have been drawn up on the basis of - you also know them extremely well - on the basis of the single paper footprint. As expected, a large proportion of the soil appears as a forest character. As long as we realise that the last forest census published in 1992 was covering over 50% of the land from forests without including forests and grasslands. As far as the Aegean islands are concerned, we are fully aware of the fact that because of their morphology and the uses of the land over time they are covered by grassland. The problems raised with regard to forested fields and private grassland have naturally not arisen from the suspension of the forest map, simply concern issues that existed before and have their basis and the abandonment of land that was previously cultivated, as well as the lack of the digital footprint of the titles issued by the Office for Management of Muslem land. The vegetarian areas which are found on the Aegean islands, and in particular - as you mentioned - in Lesvos and Lesvos, it is demonstrated by one of the ways in Article 10 of Law 3280/2003 that they are private areas. In this case too, if this correspondence exists, of course, their designation should be changed, that is to say, another form of A/A with the indication that it is private grassland, as you say very well. This is a very difficult and complex task to suspension and completion of the suspension and then to a second stage of ratification of the forest maps. I mentioned earlier, Mr President, that we are pleased to say that we have now reached 100% of the Greek territory. It's a very big step. Where there are problems, I inform you that we are aware of the fact that we are constantly in contact with decentralised administrations and forest services, we are recording them and giving a solution to everything that is always in line with the Constitution, the laws and decisions of the Council of State. I would like to say, therefore, that I understand the particular issues of Lesvos, as I was replying to a timely question from our colleague for Mani. I also understand that there is unfortunately also a misinformation outside which leads people to fear that their property rights will be affected. We're clear. No legal property right in the ways you have mentioned as it comes, must not be affected, no farmer will lose his subsidies, no farmer, no farmer or land owner will be affected by his legal right and their legal ownership. We are unequivocal about this, and of course we are always at your disposal to answer these questions and at a second stage when we arrive at the ratification of forest maps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u371	Thank you. Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Although the Minister has covered most, I will be allowed to make a few suggestions. Minister, I have listened with satisfaction to the initiatives you intend to take to ensure that property is not lost, that families are destroyed and that the primary sector is irreversibly affected and that the economic life of our farmers and especially of the inhabitants of our islands. You said you were going to set up a legislative committee to draw up a draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u373	We're already doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u374	Very good, very right what you do and I don't talk about it. This is also the philosophy of our Government and Prime Minister that these issues must be resolved with understanding, we must listen to the voice of both Members and of society so that we can move forward. It is therefore imperative today and for a reason above, Minister. I think you know, but I have to tell you about the need for the minutes. In view of the sloppiness of the relevant Ministerial Decisions of the SYRIZA Government concerning earlier attempts to complete the process of suspension and ratification of forest maps, the Council of State has annulled and I refer to the 685/2019 and 710/2020 decisions of Syriza, the Council of State that cancelled ministerial decisions of 2017. This was the case, although the first exception to the suspension of the housing density, that is to say, if in an area which is also a forest we can build up and not build up the second one in the landfills for agricultural cultivation, because the administrative operations required had not been adopted. Minister, it is true that by Law 4685-2020 our Government - our government voted for him - to set things straight by giving solutions. But I think the following issues need to be resolved by the legislation that is being planned, and I am sure you will. The first - you have already said - is the titles of ownership. We will not only confine ourselves to strong titles as I mentioned before, but also to the derivative way in which ownership is acquired, which leads to extraordinary usage, which is the original way. Secondly, for my OPEKEPE, you have solved the problem. We're completely satisfied. It will normally continue to pay subsidies. With regard to the building of the buildings, a building licence shall be issued, provided that the part of the plot meets the conditions of completeness and does not have the character of a forest, i.e. that it is partly forestry and partly other form. The end of the offenders is a problem, Minister. I know it's your concern. We have talked about this in private, but I would also like your opinion here too. You have accepted - and this must be done - that in cases of manifest errors the applications for manifest errors will be made free of charge. However, if an application for a manifest error is rejected and is turned into an objection, then a fee will be paid. But, Minister, these fees must be reduced in the light of the current economic circumstances. And to make it clear, Minister, whether the fees in this case relate to objections to the nature of the area or to the use. I have the feeling that they will only concern the nature of the land, but I am not quite sure. I think that's the way it will be. Of course, the staffing of the forestry services - I think you said that - is taking place at a rapid pace. Finally, for the Aegean islands in particular, landed areas, that is, forest areas in the 1945 aerial photography - taken by the UK's royal air force - which appear to be agricultural in turn, must continue to be agricultural areas rather than forestry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u375	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with the cases of manifest errors that regulate self-righteously. However, in the event of a rejection of the manifest error which the citizen has brought free of charge to the committee for the examination of objections, this request for manifest error automatically turns into objection and if it is justified - which in most cases is the case - the end is repaid. In relation to the end, Mr President, I will give you an image, although you know them very well. To object to a citizen in the Forest Service for a piece of land that appears in the forest or that falls under forest legislation the fee is 40 euros to a acre. For the average land ownership, which is up to five acres - and the outside of the plan, that is, for them to be built, that is the average area, and that is the vast majority of the properties - it is 90 euros. The fees have a rewarding character. We are making more than three hundred opposition committees, to some extent financed by this end. There is a reward, and I would like the citizen to know that, that it is not the ending of this process, but it is done to finance it. If, as I said, he wants to make a manifest error - there is a wide range of issues for which a citizen can invoke the obvious error, free of charge, without paying - he can initiate the procedure. Submission of forest services, as I have told you, is a chronic problem. You know that very well, Mr President. But, as I have said, with a programme of mutual benefit from the OAED, with European Union money, from the Social Cohesion Fund, we will shortly be hiring three hundred and fifty forestists, two hundred foresters and one hundred and fifty administrative staff, who will all fall into the difficult and complex work of forest maps. I should also like to say to you that for Ottas, local government agencies, the opposition fee is zero. Clearly, yes, SYRIZA's law on forest maps went far behind. He was so sloppy and so unscientific that, of course, he led to these two decisions of the Council of State, the 685/2019 and the 710/2020, and we were back from the beginning, and not just from the beginning, but we were behind the starting point, because we had to face, as I said earlier, a hundred and eighty thousand objections from citizens only for 52% of the land's posted then, on SYRIZA, forest maps. Unfortunately, Greece - I regret to say this, because we are a country and a people with such dynamism, with such extroversion, with such abilities - has remained the only country in Europe, without forest maps, without Land registers, without Forestry. There is a great deal of interest abroad, because it is also a commitment of the country to complete the forest maps, since it is also our obligation towards the European institutions. After all, at EuroWorking Group we are discussing a number of issues and forest maps are part of the agenda. I tell you again that we are very proud that our Government has arrived, respectfully observing the goal with commitment and time and quality of work, in the fact that we have posted 100% of the territory. For the rest, Mr President, I have noted some points and I do not know whether you will allow me to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u377	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u378	I'll say this for the wooded fields. This is a very often treated issue. You said before that man has his olive grove, and because he's biological, he can't spray, so they're getting out of those porks and in the aerial photography that can be captured as a forest. This is clearly a matter of manifest error. Without paying the olive grove owner, he is addressed to the relevant forest service of the Decentralised Command and is required by the Forest Service to obtain the information to be provided by the owner of the land and to correct. We are in such a process, Mr President, constantly, at the moment we are talking about, those who have the responsibility of correcting forest maps, doing this work, making final decisions, administrative acts, legitimate titles, manifest errors, and correcting the various problems that have arisen and appear in the forest maps. One final thing, Mr President, is that this is such a big and complex issue. Indeed, some will say - and to some extent they will be right - 'Why should there be such eyewitness errors in forest maps?' The study companies, the scholars who took these jobs, took them in the era of SYRIZA, that is, in 2018 and early 2019. I was hoping and I would, when these contracts were made with the scholars, that the scholars should have more obligation to be in the field, that there should be a sample of their work, so that today we should not be running to correct these mistakes of the past. But we, the Mitsotakis Government, the New Democracy Government, face the problems and one by one solves them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-12-S1-commons.u380	(a) Parliamentary control: topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
