ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17 to 2021, the minutes of its meeting, of Wednesday 17 March 2021 concerning the vote on the entire draft law were ratified by the Bureau of the Hellenic Republic and the Monopoly of Anonymity Company under the name "Hellenic Chronic Chrysopoly REPRESENTATION OF MATTERS AND INDUSTRIAL CHRYS" and related provisions.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the application of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, arrangements for the functioning of the courts and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 March 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a circle of priority, which will include one speaker from each parliamentary group, and two twelve-faced speakers, with a ratio: Five New Democracy, three SYRIZA, a Change Movement, a JRC, a Greek Solution, a Mera25. Two dozen-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-three-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-three-one-one-one-three-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-three-one-one-one-one. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I think that there is no objection to this classic procedure. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. We are starting with the rapporteur, Mr Andreas Patsi, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill is now introduced before you in application of the Rules of Procedure of the European Union 1939/2017 of the Council of 12 October 2017 in order to become an integral part of our national legal order. The three pillars of the draft law, which will deal with us and have dealt with us, are divided into Articles 1 to 19, concerning the European Prosecutors and European Prosecutors, Articles 20 to 31, where issues are resolved for the reopening of the courts after the suspension due to COVID and issues relating to the functioning of the Council of State and regular administrative courts, thirdly, Article 32 on the concession of detention stores, Article 35 on the participation of civil society in the national mechanism for the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of child rights action plans and, finally, Articles 40 to 46 on which transitional and authorisation provisions are introduced, as well as on the interpretation of better implementation of the provisions of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment and establishment of the European Public Prosecutor is a very serious institution and is analysed in Articles 1 to 19. The fight against fraud against the European Union's financial interests, through criminal justice, is very important even for the future of Europe itself. The protection of the European Union's financial interests is also the interest of its Member States. Therefore, with the European Public Prosecutor, which the draft law of the Ministry of Justice introduces, provisions are introduced to better implement the relevant regulation on the proper functioning of the European Public Prosecutor, so that cross-border crime can be dealt with more effectively. Even more important, however, is the strengthening of the judicial cooperation between our country and the other Member States. The proposed provisions define the necessary qualifications and the way in which the Greek European Public Prosecutor and the European Authorised Prosecutors are appointed, and in accordance with the relevant Regulation it is recommended for the Office of European Prosecutors. The experience of candidates in criminal economic crime, their scientific training, their education in criminal sciences, the possession of postgraduate, doctoral and other qualifications, and the experience in the functioning of the European Union institutions will be the criteria for a transparent and objective selection framework. The way and conditions are also increased formal but also substantial qualifications, such as pre-service at least eight years for candidate public prosecutors of first grade and three years for at least the candidates of second grade. The Supreme Judicial Council shall conduct the interview. The establishment of the Office of European Authorised Prosecutors, which is operationally independent, is also envisaged in order to ensure the speed, security and exchange of information, the electronic movement of documents. Service issues, such as the exercise of their duties in the event of their promotion, issues of exception, as well as the definition of the qualifications of officials who will be serving the office of the European Chief Prosecutors. Articles 15 to 19 lay down the powers of the Office. We adopt Regulation 2017/1939. The country is in line with European data, and the vast majority of the parties should welcome it positively. The most positive thing for all is that the European Chief Executives will conclude in five and eight years, years full of actions in European crimes against the European Union, that is, twenty-eight Member States, and we understand the importance of their work. Then they return to the Greek courts, they will feed back with the knowledge and experience, which is the added value for our country, the level and the perception that they will distribute and grant from the collegial environment and the judiciary rooms and provide the awe and the reasoning of what they have learned what is, in fact, what we call "European pavement". Articles 20 to 31 deal with matters relating to the reopening of the courts, of course following the suspension of their work due to COVID, as well as matters relating to the functioning of the Council of State and the ordinary administrative courts. Initiated by Article 20, concerning the provision for the reopening of political courts, in the event that a case debate of any degree of jurisdiction and of any procedure has not been given during the period of validity of the Staff Regulations, of which the function has been suspended, is automatically determined by an act of the Head of the Court or the President of the Chamber, the day and time of the hearing at the hearing in the shortest available court. Since the bill, having referred to the excellent importance of the European Public Prosecutors, I am going to make a special reference to Article 23, which we have discussed in detail in committee. A lot has been said about the contents of this article, many and unfortunately monotonous and repeated. Your rhetoric, ladies and gentlemen, during the drafting of the bill in committee, was extremely misleading, entirely old-fashioned and popular. Instead of looking at the provision in the future for modernising the justice system, you close the eye in syndicated purposes. You are oppositioning the opposition and fishing in blurred waters. As the Minister pointed out, he consulted, listen, evaluate and judge. No right to a fair crisis is limited, but not in many respects, ladies and gentlemen. However, even if one is able to identify the quantity with quality, the forecasts have still been obtained. The provision clearly says - and I do not understand why and you yourself have not reflected it correctly in your speeches and in your contributions - that justifiedly more than thirty pages can be accepted. But there is the issue of unjustified. First of all, there is no unacceptable. We've got to figure this out and get this straight. The only thing that exists as a penalty if the trial is lost is, in fact, three times the paradox. That is why we are actually talking, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not understand why all these days you have given a different interpretation which has nothing to do with this bill, just as I have told you, and it is the second and most important time that I have done so. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of justice is particularly sensitive and the most important. It is the fundamental stone of the state and democracy. There is no justice society, which is why legal science is the crown of science. You focused your criticism of the opening of the courts in the midst of a murder pandemic. You have focused your criticism on whether the aid given was sufficient or not and whether the thirty pages are sufficient to develop their arguments or not. You see the tree and not the forest. You are eliminating your criticism of the timeliness and the party agenda. Paediatrics and problems in the area of justice, ladies and gentlemen, are structural and long-term and require radical restructuring. Do you ignore them? Aren't you interested? You probably don't know them? Your only concern is to pete ears, perhaps attempting to enlarge either personal or party clientele. If the courts have been closed for a period of time because of a murder pandemic, as they have left, ladies and gentlemen, in other times - in 1992-1994 for almost two years or in 2016 for almost ten months because of the great abstention - this is ultimately the problem of the non-fast administration of justice and of the lack of confidence of part of society in the institution? The fact that there have been criticisms against judges' decisions at times contributes to the confidence in the institution that you have constantly invoked, independent justice? Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, which Minister publicly targeted the corruption interrogator by pointing out how it should carry out its duties? Remember how many times your government attacked the judges for the way they performed their duties? I guess you don't have a short memory. You're just making yourself comfortable by disobeying them. Because you have repeatedly invoked what is happening with the courts in other countries, tell me, ladies and gentlemen, in these countries what would be the fate of the politicians who thus face judges as in our country? Does it give a sense of security and trust to ordinary citizens, when a supreme judge is appointed as a legal adviser to the former Prime Minister? The crocodile tears, ladies and gentlemen, do not convince anyone. Of course there is a question of the training of judges. The times are changing, the judges must be socialised, but also targeted at the facts and the law, without fear and passion. The prestige and dignity of lawyers, ladies and gentlemen, depend on the amount of an aid, not on the excess of the members of this House? Not from not guaranteeing their minimum wages? Not by the possibility of managing any trial at their discretion? Not from losing workers because of the weakness of our system and how our system operates? Not since on the system scale they are often treated as second-class citizens? Unfortunately, many words about nothing, ladies and gentlemen. You focus on topicality, you face superficially as a simple process, trying to perform a duty, in your view, without entering into the essence of the problems as well. Perhaps this is about the fact that at the time of your administration you did not face any essential problem with justice. A bill in four and a half years, eight in eight eight eighteen months. Obviously these issues are not just solved. Apparently, the pathogens are long. Obviously our system suffers at all levels and across the range of all justice officials. And we must obviously have a debate and deal with this problem, if we want to say that we are seeking to modernise and upgrade the system and the institution of justice, unless we every time get tired of cowardice and resurrect old-fashioned tactics and modes of operation, such as the 1950s, the '60s and the 1970s. It is not that, in my view, ladies and gentlemen, neither justice nor the way in which the justice system operates. We're here to add a little bit, leave a print. As the Minister said, after so many years of suffering, a little - a little - we are leading to a radical restructuring and obviously that takes too much time and it is not something that lightly tackles the subject of the Minister's discussion. We must try to restructure and not incorporate, ladies and gentlemen, just directives, but seek to have a strong justice system corresponding to Europeans. Many times we call on what is happening in the rest of Europe, but unfortunately I do feel that we do not really know what is happening and perhaps we do not really know what the rest of Europe is like, but in fact, for all the officials of justice, for a truly independent judiciary, which the judge will feel the increased weight because of his role, which, as a lawyer, will have the real authority of his function and which the citizen will in fact trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u4	Excellent, Mr. Patsi. The SYRIZA general rapporteur, Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill, I must refer to the criticality of the moments experienced by our people and our country. Yesterday we had a record of cases, hundreds - six hundred - sealed and dozens of coronary victims. Doctors, nurses, health workers in public hospitals a year ago are now making titanic efforts to save lives. Thank them through our hearts. We must say that, we must recognise each and every one of those who offer huge services. The government, however, left them alone and have exceeded their limits of endurance. Despite the protracted lockdown, the most protracted throughout Europe, the method of the "accordion" exulted by the Prime Minister has proved to have failed. We have been in the worst situation since the beginning of the pandemic. The EKT list is full of patients waiting for bed to be found in an intensive care unit. Our health system has become a system of one disease and thousands of surgery are being cancelled, and so patients with other serious illnesses are at risk and in this situation the Minister is calling for the relaxation of measures. So you're thinking of opening up the economy while we have six hundred tubers, when you closed it with two hundred tubes five months ago. It is obvious that the government has lost control of the pandemic and that its general situation has escaped. What he had to do was keep a balance between health protection, the treatment of pandemic and the containment of the recession in the economy. The results show that he failed both. And you know that the difficulties are before us, both in terms of health and economic and psychological terms for our people. You have taken decisions away from all logic, you have allegedly taken "smart" measures, which prove to be ineffective. Yesterday, once again, our President, Alexis Tsipras, the President of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, proposed a political moratorium. At the moment, this is what our country needs. He proposed that the government finally respect the fact that we are faced with exceptional circumstances requiring wisdom and the preservation of social cohesion. The government has a duty, even now, to stop splitting society by depriving them of provocative legislation, which reduces rights and provoke reactions. It has a duty to recognise its great responsibilities, to stop showing authoritarianism and intransigence, to stop targeting the opposition and especially the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, to stop, first and foremost, the finger on the citizens by transferring responsibility to them. We all know that they have been aggravated and they are too tired. The results of police checks show that citizens at a huge rate, almost 98%, comply with the measures. So here we are together to agree on how we can save human lives. And I now come to the situation in justice. You said yesterday, Minister, to say that during the Lockdown period in Greece the rule of law was alive and there was, there was no real right lost. By way of example, the determinations by the court in some proceedings are made for 2024. Family and labour affairs are mostly not on trial. The many exceptions that exist in the joint ministerial decisions on the functioning of justice are a difficult equation which risks the calculation of time limits and the loss of rights. So he wants very much attention to how they will be interpreted, how lawyers and lawyers will interpret these provisions so that rights will not be lost. I shall refer specifically to the process of redefining the pending cases of the Katsel Act. You remember, Minister, that we were telling you not to bring such a piece of legislation into the pandemic, not to bring such a piece of legislation that burdens citizens with weight and there is a risk of loss of rights. We understand that lenders, banks want everything and want it now, but, at least in the pandemic, there should be respect for the enormous difficulties that citizens experience. Most of these applicants run in adverse conditions to prevent their home being lost. All over Europe, but also in the United States, the courts were working. With targeted measures, realistic solutions have been adapted to the new data. In our country you have decided to take horizontal measures without consulting the stakeholders. You obviously had to do it, because you could not secure measures to protect public health. Even now - and they must be implemented - ways of continuing the operation of justice with restrictions and appropriate measures - I repeat, appropriate protection measures. We are therefore waiting for the amendment - you said you would bring it, obviously you are also waiting for the health report - to see it, to see how justice opens. I will once again refer to the disdain shown by the lawyers. In fact, I see there are only lawyers in the coup d'état. You are the only government in Europe who has not taken serious measures to strengthen lawyers. For one year justice has been closed and you have given only 600 euros. The day before yesterday you gave 400 euros of the OAED's special account, which scientists themselves pay. This amount was allocated to a minimum. In fact, the new lawyers who need them were rejected. Yesterday, the scientific bodies, as you saw, ladies and gentlemen, sent an open letter protesting strongly about what happened with the EUR 400 and the OAED's special account. They are protesting against the harassment with the donation of 400 euros to a few scientists. Only forty-four thousand received the allowance and 17.7 million euros were made available from the reserve, which is 67 million. And I repeat that this reserve has been created by contributions from the lawyers themselves, all of us. We are therefore tabling an amendment, Mr Minister, to restore injustice and call on you to accept it. With the amendment we are proposing measures to ensure that the scientists who really need it, with income criteria, with an increasing amount, a steep amount, and in addition to what they have already received it, are given the opportunity to do so. I waited for this matter to be here and for the State Secretary to take a stand, because he was president of the Association of Officials and New Lawyers. I hope he comes, because he has to take a stand. He was president and knows the huge problems that lawyers and especially young lawyers have. Scientists and, in particular, lawyers have undoubtedly been hurt and they really need the support to cover debts and holes created in the pandemic. First of all, Mr Minister, it is a moral matter. It is a symbolic act of government recognition and support to the difficult situation they are experiencing. I'm coming to the bill now. All the problem issues were analysed in detail during the committees. We had made a corresponding provision in the incorporation of the Rules of Procedure of the European Public Prosecutor. You're evolving it, you're changing it, you get it back and you bring something new. We have made proposals to improve the provisions. We insist that the qualifications of the European Public Prosecutor and European Prosecutors should be high. But we realise that there may be some practical issues. That is why we propose not exclusion, but moleculosis depending on the level of knowledge of the English language, mobilisation of the knowledge of the second foreign language or the second degree for an object similar to the postgraduate as a qualification with the bill. We also propose that the secretariat of the Office of the Chief Prosecutors should be included in a judicial formation and that this ensures that the institution is fully independent. I shall now turn to an article, Rule 23, which we analysed in detail in committee. The law of the Council of State and its long legal tradition move in the standards of Continental Law, not the Anglo-Saxon. The relevant application of the procedural rules of the ECHR is completely incompatible with the procedural procedure of the Greek courts and, in particular, the Council of State. I would remind you that the Council of State was founded and operated in the standards of the respective French court. The real and legal basis of many of these very serious cases dealt with by the Council of State requires such development. In any event, the arguments and arguments of the parties may not depend on the number of pages. We're legal, and we understand. It needs an analysis of the legal reasons, of the real reasons. Give the lawyers the power. Not everyone does it, not all of them do it in all cases, but in some it's necessary. We cannot deprive this right at a time when there is a 30-minute limit for oral development in the Council of State. Restriction on writing, limiting and oral? Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that. We therefore believe that the provision should be withdrawn and that all the bodies involved should be consulted, not just with the consultants. And the lawyers and representatives of all the agencies. The fundamental rights of judicial protection and fair trial must be protected. I'm closing my speech with Rule 32. We are the only country in the European Union that anti-crime policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection. In other countries, such as Cyprus, the Ministry of Justice is linked to the Ministry of Civil Protection. That is why there is a certain amount of competence. We are the only country, therefore, where anti-crime policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Police. You have decided to abolish the discrimination between prosecuting crimes of justice and the movement of detainees. These are distinguished. Your aim is obviously to exercise a repressive anti-crime policy. Another thing is repression and another thing about penitentiation. Incarceration in detention stores has a penitentiary and not a punishment. Prison policy must be exercised by the Ministry of Justice and not by the Ministry of Civil Protection. It is by political decision that you have done exactly the opposite. However, what you are doing now, namely the decommissioning of the Court of Justice Fund, the FCLR, is unacceptable and unprecedented. You grant the Ministry of Citizen Protection the entire property of the FIFG, the land and, indeed, the management of its revenue. You are therefore significantly reducing the assets and revenues of the FIFG, without any study, without any decision of the legal person governed by public law. You are subsidizing the Ministry of Citizen Protection with very high-value assets. I note that a penitentiary is valued at EUR 25-30 million. Until now, the property - this property, the huge property - managed by a legal person governed by public law, which had rules on accountability and balance sheet training. Now you are giving these powers to the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy. Especially in this case is the case with the Secretary of State for Crime Policy, complaints have arisen about direct assignments within the pandemic, about the shadows of overcompensation and others. The properties, therefore, must remain the ownership of the FIFG. It was your political decision to transfer the anti-crime policy and the penitentiary to the Ministry of Civil Protection. It's unacceptable to lose his property. I have closed, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, when you are presided over, everyone keeps the exact time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u8	It is because of the cooperation of colleagues. Mrs Konstantina Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country is at a crucial point. The coronary cases have been launched again and hundreds are in intensive, lives are lost or at risk, while the ESS has exceeded its limits. At the same time, the economy is being tested, businesses are losing the ground under their feet, industries are being destroyed. These compose the image of the country after a long-term lockdown, which seems to have failed to contain, could not contain the third wave, did not create obstacles to the spread of the coronary. Unfortunately, the experts' forecasts do not give us much optimism for the next period of time, and this also suggests a vertical increase in the viral load from waste water studies in many cities, such as Athens, Thessaloniki, Chania and others. So at this critical time the government must and must take its responsibilities for the results of its choices and for the preparation of one, it seems, extremely difficult. I, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, in no way deprive the value of comparative data, such as cases, victims, of a rate of vaccination between the countries of the European Union, showing that Greece - yes, objectively - has stood in a relatively good position. Besides, we're talking about global pandemic. I do not understand how people do not read, take into account what international experience is. Only, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the point, or at least that is not all. Your strategy, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple and the Government, has failed. The longest lockdown failed. I fear that we are at risk now that tsunami is rising, the government, influenced by pressure, will proceed to measures for which the costs have not been calculated. However, I cannot fail to boast the hypocrisy of opposition parties, which at the most critical point for Greece show their greater irresponsibility by organising three - three demonstrations and gatherings a day. I repeat three - three days a day, one for the convicted murderer Mr Koufontina and his alleged right to choose how and where he will serve his sentence or for the junta and police rule that comes in the mind of some people. The government has a clear responsibility for the situation, but the Civic special opposition seems to be playing irresponsibly and dangerously with the fatigue of Greek citizens. And it is, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your hypocritical and comic-tragic executives, who organized a hundred and twenty - say - concentrations within thirty - forty days, to declare themselves troublesome about the parade only on vehicles for 25 March. It's hypocrisy at least. I am sorry, but my opinion is that this is not the time to show power and to impose choices on the government - it is not the time, take the hampari - or the other experiments of government decay from parts of counterpopulation. The political system must stand up to the circumstances, the parties must consult themselves on fundamentally, at least in a few respects. And I am not even speaking, ladies and gentlemen, about a fake moratorium, which is not even believed by those who propose it. I'm talking about real understanding. I'm talking about national responsibility. I fear that if it is not proposed by everyone, the country, the lives of Greek citizens first and foremost and above all, then the results will be very bad and let not have many illusions, let none of us have illusions in this Chamber. The whole political system will be accountable to the Greek citizens, we will all be. Now for the bill, which is being introduced into plenary today, and we have had quite intense and interesting discussions in the four previous committees, it is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that some of the points of the bill have been observed in a joint, comprehensive response from all the representatives of the opposition and the relevant bodies, whom we have heard in committee. And indeed, Minister, what has been said documentarily and with arguments from all over the opposition I am pointing out about points of the bill, such as the reopening of the courts, such as the funny cut-off of the pages of the pleadings before the TSE, such as the concession of the real estate of the FIFG to the Ministry of Citizens' Protection, I wonder if they finally put you on the table, if you have any problems, if you have heard what we have all said, if you think they have even some basis for what we have told you or are empty meaning, and only you have the absolute truth. Mr Minister, unfortunately - and here too, there is a structural issue, because I finally understand that and that is what I kept from the whole debate, which we did on this bill - it has been confirmed that the way you legislate, beyond ineffective, is also rough and one-sided, so dangerous, which has been confirmed not only by what we are telling you, but by the hearing of the bodies which directly the chairman of the plenary of the lawyers told you that the legal body has never been asked for the forthcoming changes in the provisions of the S.H.E. Because, Minister, your choice to consult unilaterally without having been based on objective elements, for an objective description of a situation and a problem, but also on the consequences of your decision, because the exclusion of all bodies from the consultation of the bill shows a trade union-type approach to major and serious issues of Greek justice, instead of an attempt to intervene comprehensively in the chronic illnesses that afflict Greek justice, because it is incomprehensible for the Ministry of Justice to give us samples of pre-eminent, unilateral, so that you should have been a model of legitimisation, I would like to make it clear to you - because you have several bills and very serious bills, Mr Minister, if you can hear me, bring us in the next time - and I will warn you from the step of the Greek Parliament that this, that you have not done anything against you, will not find a broadly-minded statements against you! The draft law, therefore, is more specific. On the Statute for the European Public Prosecutor, yes, we think it is moving in the right direction. We have made it clear, we have analysed it in all the committees. We are clearly a pro-European force, which we believe needs proper, correct, full implementation of European directives and regulations. We have raised the issue of formal qualifications simply by the European Public Prosecutors because we believe that in 2021 it is absolutely inconceivable to speak of unsatisfactory knowledge of English. That is why we have proposed that you simply exclude the first two series for the Greek Prosecutor and that the excellent knowledge of the Greek should be absolutely necessary. It's incomprehensible to talk about anything else. As regards what is provided for in Article 21, as I have said since the first debate, of course we are in agreement with the increase in organic positions in the courts, yes and in the higher courts. You mentioned to us the day before yesterday that the organic positions in the higher courts are not your decision, but it is a decision of independent justice and you are simply covering the distribution which has been given to you. However, Minister, we consider it imperative - and let us not hide behind our fingers - that if we want to talk about serious intervention, support for justice, you cannot increase, respectively, with increases in higher courts and in organic positions, pay them and make similar support to the lower courts, which also face the greatest volume of Greek justice, the courts and courts of peace. So make sure you include an integrated support framework and the lower courts. Otherwise, what you do is incomplete. We shall now proceed to the second chapter on the arrangements for the functioning of the courts. You will allow me, Minister, as the responsibility of the parliamentary labour sector for the justice of the Change Movement to once again address the criticality of the days and months that we have spent in relation to the functioning of justice. We are in mid-March 2021, a year after the almost complete suspension of the courts in our country, which has undoubtedly caused irreparable economic damage and possibly constitutional excesses. And that's a truth. There are consistent requests made by the Plenipotentiaries for the professional survival of thousands of people and their families, which unfortunately have not been accepted, at the same time and at the same time, when the data - based on what is happening in other countries of the European Union - shows that in other Member States there has been no similar suspension. To prevent you, this is not a syndicate matter, Minister. It has nothing to do with a syndicate matter. It has to do - and you have to understand that - with the general social group. You should not, therefore, overlook the fact that the suspension of justice first and foremost affects the constitutional right of the Greek citizen, especially the most vulnerable Greek citizen, who finds his disguise in Greek justice. That's the big deal. And of course we have drawn your attention to the fact that there must be an extension of the procedural deadlines and other arrangements. We're waiting to see what you're going to do. In the notorious article 23, it is true that until the last moment, until now, in the debate in plenary, we have been hoping almost everyone, especially after what has been said at all previous meetings from assembling the opposition, that you will get this provision back. We were expecting you to withdraw it. This amazing originality, which you are trying to introduce into the Greek procedural system, following a recommendation by the judges of the Council of State, as emerged from the committees, and you yourself said, there is no doubt that he has unrealisticly exposed you. I would like it to be clear, for it to be accurately reflected in the Minutes of this House, that the introduction on your part of this provision constitutes a flagrant violation of the right to legal protection for Greek citizens, which includes the full and effective development of arguments. So it contains very serious issues of unconstitutionalism and does not go hand in hand with our legal tradition and our legal culture. And it is a ferry, and I fear very much that in future it will be possible to extend it to the other courts and tribunals. So be very careful, Minister. And here there's no room for medico-technical improvement. We told you in committees too. Only one can do: to withdraw this unacceptable provision! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to Chapter III - and I am closing down, Mr President - in relation to Article 32, which concerns the granting of detention stores to the Ministry of Citizens' Protection from the FAO, I will just repeat our initial clear objections and oppositions to authoritarian and incomprehensible and against anything that happens throughout Europe, in terms of prison, from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Only as a clear conservative regression can this be described and you confirm what we have told you and we have warned you about the overthrow of a political democratic acquis and the creation of problems in managing the resources of the FIFG. I close, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we sincerely seek and believe that the parliamentary procedure is the most creative part of the opposition. That is why we come here not with jays, with slogans, but with particular justification for our objections and with concrete proposals, because we want to contribute to their change and we want the laws that the Greek Parliament is voting on to be good laws for Greek citizens. So we ask that you listen to our voice and our arguments and go directly to the corrections you need to make, because the major issue is about the more effective and more rapid administration of Greek justice. Unfortunately, once again the bill you bring does not put stones, as you have told us in the committees, simply puts patches which you throw into a hole in the water.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u10	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u11	So let's call, let's make a decision to have a wide-ranging dialogue with all the institutions - but all the institutions! - with the opposition parties, in order to provide an integrated plan - and I close - so that the greatest pathogenicity in the Greek state, in the Hellenic Republic, can be resolved, almost vagueness in the administration of justice. For all these reasons at the outset and because it concerns the incorporation of a regulation, we will vote in favour of this draft law. We shall, however, vote against all the provisions that we have raised against, of course, looking forward to seeing the corrections which the Minister expects to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u12	From the Communist Party of Greece, my colleague Maria Konnakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. The main body of the bill is to implement the provisions of the European Union Rules of Procedure which recommended the European Public Prosecutor. Nevertheless, it is not by chance that the voice that prevailed around this issue by almost all the other parties, in particular the SYRIZA and the Change Movement, who depleted their criticism of the formal qualifications of the candidates for the European Public Prosecutors. We did not expect anything different, of course, since SYRIZA took the lead as a government in setting up and implementing another repressive Euro-Union mechanism, faithfully continuing the political choice of the New Democracy - a successor. In fact, as a government at the time, it ran from the first to integrate our country into the enhanced cooperation of the sixteen original Member States, through which the functioning of the European Prosecutor was promoted in particular willing Member States, when the unanimity required by the Treaties of the European Union could not be achieved. This is because the establishment of the Euro-Info was an area of controversy between the Member States' bourgeois ranks, as it concerns and affects the core of the powers of the national civil state, i.e. functions relating to criminal prosecution, repression and characterisation of acts as offences and others. We must therefore remind you not, of course, of you, but of the people themselves, in a world that is already concerned about what is actually the character of the European Public Prosecutor. The European Public Prosecutor is part of and contributes to further building the so-called ‘country of freedom, security and justice of the European Union’, a deep reactionary area in which all repressive mechanisms of the Member States can be jointly exploited, in order to neutralise what can be considered dangerous for the sacred and loyal interests of the Union, to shield the interests of capital against popular rights and freedoms. Indeed, the need to shield from vibration always becomes more pressurised in times of crisis, such as the current one, where competition for which national order interests will be affected less, times when the well-known European solidarity appears to be abundant. That is when the restrictions and repression against the people's movement reap a common denominator of the anti-population policy of all governments. Furthermore, the European Union itself has identified radicalism and popular protest mobilisation as one of the greatest threats to its interests. Is the concern, therefore, of creating such a united, powerful suppressive mechanism? Not only is it valid, but there is already a rich experience of the role and use of such mechanisms in the framework of the European Union's common strategy. Therefore, the European Public Prosecutor recommends a dangerous development for the people. It is the koruna of its anti-grassroots policy in the field of criminal judicial cooperation, which was aimed at many years. It came to remain and, in particular, to take advantage of the working people's movement, with possibilities for exchanging information and coordinated investigations with rapid binding or confiscation of assets, making demands for suspects' arrests, but also for a wide range of special investigative acts that have been incorporated into criminal law with the various 'terrorists', on the basis, in fact, of data and frescoes which have literally lifted the collection and processing of personal data, and when the European Prosecutor's Office is a mechanism beyond and above the national judicial systems, acts in the Union's interest and is only accountable to its institutions. Nor does it seek nor receive instructions from any external factor, as the Rules of Procedure state. It is therefore a dangerous development to allow the European Public Prosecutor to prosecute the European Prosecutor. The treatment of fraud and other economic crimes is not only the pretext and pretext of extending its action to other areas of prosecution and repression. Besides, it's a familiar path. Often unacceptable and convicted phenomena of crime and corruption, but phenomena inherent in the capitalist development path - and therefore unresolved in this context - work as a basis for the creation of such repressive mechanisms and the promotion of reactive and dangerous developments for people, with a more common vehicle called the 'fight against terrorism', in which the institutions of the European Union aim at all radical considerations that challenge its interests. Their insight, moreover, has already opened up to a large number of debates and resolutions of the European Parliament. The extension of the Euro pean Prosecutor to other areas, particularly those of the so-called 'terrorism', has already been mentioned. In addition, its regulation is deliberately vague and is already widening its scope. In these steps, there is also the promotion of more and more common criminal definitions, which, despite the initial reservations surrounding the integration of criminal law, are gradually taking place in the face of the stimulus of strengthening measures, in order to overcome the obstacles to the deepening of the single market and, of course, in particular to protect the competitiveness of European monopolies. Armouring the power of monopolies is the real goal. That is why strengthening the European Union's legal arsenal is being exploited and reused to curb popular freedoms and rights, to strike the working people's movement. From this point of view, the JRC opposes the establishment and implementation of such mechanisms, such as the Euro-Accession and calls on the workers in our country, as well as the workers in the area of justice who are closely following these developments and worrying, to take advantage of the rich experience they have in their hands, to strengthen the fight against the European Union's strategy, but also on the parties and governments who serve and promote it as a one-way, this hostile policy for the people. In Part II of the bill, I will only stand in some of the articles. It may also be the most characteristic of the way government policy is manifested in justice. In Article 20, on the reopening of the courts, we first pointed out the risks of the safe and timely information of their parties and lawyers by predicting themselves to be responsible for the search for the new courts, even if some malfunctions were presented in the 'Solon.gov.gr' system for the monitoring of courts. On the other hand, in cases involving the Greek State, the Registrar of the Court of Justice himself informs the central office of the Legal Council of State of the new case, in order to obviously inform the public privileges - we would say - in relation to the citizens of the parties and not to lose anything on the ground. The real problems, however, regarding the functioning of the courts in these pandemic conditions are found in other, much more serious issues which, unfortunately, remain unsolved. These focus on protecting the health of workers, as well as lawyers and parties, as well as on protecting the income of a large majority of the self-employed and hired lawyers, who, apart from the vertical fall of their incomes, continue to be severely affected by the overall policy pursued by the government towards them. It is a policy that has left the health system completely intact, makes health protocols in all places of work and public transport and sacrifices the protection of the health of the people in the interests of business groups. Even now that public hospitals are really in the "intensive", which doctors are screaming out of agony after they have long exhausted their limits, refuse to touch this "cow" of the private health sector. This is a policy that provokes state responsibility to individual and even calls for change from the people, because it is mobilised against this criminal policy, thereby trying to incriminate him for the development of the pandemic. Of course, you also have self-professionals, especially fighters, and I would say, defense lawyers from both the Change Movement and the Greek Solution, which I imagine is waiting in order for the "sex-mortem preaching". Truly, what were the measures taken by the Government and the Ministry of Justice to protect the health of workers in the field of justice? What did he do to make use of all this time? Nothing at all! You are provokingly refusing to satisfy even the basics, the unequivocal requests of the judges for regular sanitation, free mass and repeated tests for workers, the granting of the necessary means of protection, the recruitment of permanent staff, medical staff and cleaning staff in the courts. Instead, where do you get your interest? Once again, even at this difficult time, your concern is to serve selfish business interests. The famous "decontamination gates", as you will remember, Minister, that is to say, the gates that would spray with bleach and ultraviolet rays, as well as photographing the incoming people in court. First and foremost, particularly dangerous to health, but also for personal data and completely ineffective, of course, to fight the coronary. That's why their installation was prevented after the intense and justified reactions raised by judges and lawyers. But, Minister, there seems to be something else to be the'sensitivity' of this government. When in high-risk areas such as Attica, access to justice has been 'blue' for all citizens, what is one of the only three exceptions provided for by this last CSM? As you say, the procedure against the workers' strikes. That really will say 'justice committed to the demands of co-operation'! You don't even keep the elementary pretext anymore! This permanent scale, which is one-sided towards the purpose of rescuing business profits, is which does not allow substantial support to be given to the workers, the self-employed, the small professionals and scientists, who are really immersed in debts and insecurity, since of the various aids that are being disbursed by the European Union for them there is nothing more than a "scrupulous dick" than the "sprinkled pillows" offered by the big businesses. That is why when you did not include the lawyers in the repayable advance, since you first exempted them from these suspensions of their insurance and tax obligations that for a short time extended suffocation, with the banning conditions that you made most of the self-employed lawyers actually see with the chalk even those 1000 or rather 500 euros that they finally hold. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] On the other hand, the large legal corporations have sold very thick amounts of tens or hundreds of thousands of euros. Even this subsidy was indeed the 'poorhouse' of 400 euros, which is derived exclusively from the reserves of their own contributions to OAED, and this dream of summer nights for most self-employed and employed lawyers. In addition, Article 23 fairly brought the fire of both parties and the lawyers together. The completely unacceptable restriction that enters with the limit of pages in the registers of the Council of State is a reactionary and dangerous measure. And even import him under threat of a penalty of up to three times the judicial expense. It's like "when your pocket lifts the damage, well, you can develop your thoughts with discretion, or write a telegram". Of course, such a provision is objectively working as a "crowd" for its generalisation in one way or another and in other judicial procedures. There are already such discussions in a more general sense of authoritarianity about the suffocating restriction of procedural rights, in the name of always speeding up justice. Minister, we have told you on several occasions that this article does not get any improvements and all that remains is to withdraw it. With the provision of Article 24 you are trying to deal with this phenomenon of the leakage of decisions of the Council of State which has occurred in serious cases of its competence, namely those of public opinion and which have a significant impact on economic and social life. Of course, this is the responsibility of the court itself, which does not guarantee, as it should, any such leaks in its deliberations. Moreover, large delays in publishing the final decision in such serious cases obviously serve similar purposes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is therefore fundamentally problematic, but also procedurally, that the relevant provision allowing the plenary session of the Council of State by its President to make public, at the end of the conference, a brief communication, as you say, on the content of the decision taken and the approximate date of publication of the text. This provision is problematic because it is essentially a preamble to a judicial decision which will be published in the future, when it translates the results of its entry into force. Finally, with regard to the provisions of Article 30, we have pointed out with a number of examples that the serious and chronic problems of the sub-financing of the judicial buildings remain and are not tackled, which are often manifested with unacceptable and dangerous phenomena in their operation. In relation to the other articles, we have been detailed in committee. Therefore, on the basis of what we have said in detail, we can only vote against this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Konnakka. Good morning, me too! The rapporteur for the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas is now called in Stepma. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, may I ask you something: if one day the European Union tells us to go drown, will you throw us all at sea? I say this because if there were indeed a 'good child' prize in the European Union, the 'good child' of Europe, we would have taken it, we would have been'modified', we would have seen it and said 'we are the best child in the European Union'. So, once again, our 'friends' are asking us to integrate. Incorporation is done, Minister! We're always integrating! We are being asked to harmonize ourselves with Europeans, but to dismantle within them. That's what they're asking! Integration into Europe, internal discoordination! They also asked for the illegal immigration, Minister, the Europeans a while ago, as they now demand, and are about to turn us into an Islamic colony here. The Europeans were asked for harmonization some time ago, Minister, on the media in Mr Lebanon's draft law and if it were not the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, to locate the scandal, we would have voted right now if you hadn't withdrawn it, a national minority in Greece. Do you remember that? You remember that. Once again, they asked the European Parliament yesterday for the LGBTQs. They're very alike the LGBTQs! Your MEPs of the New Democracy and the rest of the parties, of course, except for the Greek Solution, rushed to say 'yes'. And of course, he had meetings. Here the world is burning, boats are milking! Here Greece dies and Kyriakos Mitsotakis met them yesterday for equality! What can I say? It's a matter of priorities! Everyone makes their choices, of course! As many times as you all harmonized the Greek Solution with the European Union's orders, but with arguments. We are not saying anything 'no', but we are not saying 'yes' to everything. With arguments! So we come today with harmonisation to improve crime, organised crime, dirty money laundering and it goes on to say. We have spoken too many times to the committees on the circuits that bleak organised crime and on their direct interconnection with illegal immigration. These two are transporting containers. These are illegal activities that go beyond our country's territorial borders. But because we always talk about data, and I see that I come with data and research here, we need to know what the situation is at European level. The figures reveal an unpleasant reality that confirms our concerns. It confirms the concerns of the Greek Solution. You know, Mr Chiara, a few days ago EUROSTAT's investigation into crime in European countries was made public. There's a decrease in average. But don't be happy, I'll tell you. While in 2013, 14.1% of the population of twenty-seven Member States of the European Union said it faced a problem related to crime, violence or vandalism in its region, 2019 fell to 11%. I mean, from 14.1% it fell to 11%. But now we're going to the sub-items. Greece - because Greece is interested in - in 2019 in crime took the silver medal. We're up on the podium. We're three. That is, while it's falling everywhere, we're up. We're talking about upgrading! Only Bulgaria has more crime than us! They have mobs too! We, thank God, don't know if we have any known mafia. We have a lot of people, but we don't have a mob. In 20.2% Bulgaria, 16.9% Greece and 16.3% in the Netherlands. However, Denmark, which will send 30% of immigrants homes, said so the day before yesterday, said to the Syrians, "You have no war, gentlemen. Go away, go home' - it is a European socialist country. Orban didn't do it to hurt the Left here. Denmark did it. He's only got 7.3% criminality. The EUROSTAT table will be presented at the end of the Minutes, so that you can all see it. What we sometimes produce in the Minutes is good to see it. It's not the Greek Solution, it's EUROSTAT. Look at it. It is about Europe. The tsir, in fact, of all this cross-border criminal activity is so great that no matter how hard it has been, the numbers show that crime rather than being restricted is increasing. Maybe that's why we're talking about this bill today. It is not enough, however, to harmonize simply. We have to understand that crime and illegal immigration are transporting containers. This concerns all over Europe, but mainly Greece. And because we're talking about directity, we're going to something else about the Recovery Fund that we're going to find in front of us. I told the committees too. Especially now with the coronary, there are reasonable fears that, with regard to the funds for the Recovery Fund in whatever form, fraud will occur in terms of the management and exploitation of resources. If that happens, it will be a tragic mistake. There is a list of mistakes, however, generally growing, which he described yesterday in his speech, Mr. Minister of Government, the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos. Listen to him. You've heard him sometimes. You are entitled to your choices and we are therefore entitled to our proposals. But listen to him a little more often. He has been justified over time for what he has said since the first day of the pandemic, for the lockdowns, for drugs, vaccines and the psychological consequences for masks and everything. I'll be right back. We are talking about a huge range of the powers of the European Public Prosecutor within our country. And here's a little alarming. We are talking about a partial transfer of national sovereignty to a European institution, and indeed to a fundamental pillar, that of judicial service. There's no more serious than that. This body will, in fact, have such powers, which will substantially replace the relevant judicial bodies and the national legal system. You know what's gonna happen? We will have on the one hand the European Prosecutor - I see the work in front of me now - saying that he is solely responsible for this case and on the other hand we will have the national prosecutor saying that he is responsible for the same case. This situation will cause confusion, delays, retardations and I think it will be at the expense of justice itself. And until the case is resolved, illegality with illegal subsidies and stolen money will rise. And we are talking about a sum calculated by the European Union, Minister, at EUR 50 billion annually, so much money. This is not just money lacking in the European budget. The national budget is lacking as a Member State of the European Union. Now let's go to court service. You have some provisions on the functioning of the courts and the problems that have arisen with the administration of justice, especially in the last year with the coronary. The provisions you bring are fragmentary, incomplete and unfortunately cannot salvage the situation in the courts at all. I've told you I'm not a defender of the legal world. I'm not a lawman, I'm not a minist. The philosophy of the party is not such. We don't do any favors or mock or make ruffles, nothing! We have a programme, we have our views, we rely on logic, that is what we say, that is what we believe. We have a dynamic programme that is adapted to the needs of the time at a time and that is it. But the courts must work! To work safely and never to stop the administration of justice. You can't do that. Here, as a government, you cannot, Mr Chiara, stand up to the circumstances and that is one truth. As much as we appreciate you as a human and as a MP and a minister, it is the truth. More generally, you know, you've found the coroner as an excuse for everything. It's all the coroner's fault! For everything! It's the coroner everywhere! It's the other people's fault, it's the Greek citizens' fault. The Greek Government, however, is hardly ever to blame. I would point out, however, that justice must under no circumstances be inactive. There is no rule of law. There is no favoured society with justice in inertia or closed. In justice, the citizen is resorting to justice to find his point. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Let me ask you something now. Couldn't they work? Leave the infectious people now, because you'll tell me about the committee. It is not now possible for an entire government to be brought in and treated by a committee of censorship, which has done a mess! The Greek courts cannot be closed! So, the Greek courts have not been able to operate for a year with masks, with security measures, with specific distances, with a certain number of people in the halls, in order for justice to be awarded, but at the same time, can the buds go back to the streets? Can't justice work? The logic of what he says? Our logic says the courts can function. So, in the supermarkets, how are we going to eat? I don't really understand! In demonstrations, how's the world going? I don't understand why the courts can't work! How do we work here at the temple of democracy? We operate with distances, masks, limited presence of MPs. This is how the courts must function. The courts cannot be closed, Minister. Here's the government's insanity, you know. With eight hundred cases you've got it all - all the padlock, only breath will take - while with three thousand five hundred cases yesterday you're going to open them! Look, there's two things going on here. Or it was wrong what you did and we've been yelling so long and you're right to us and you're taking over the cost and the mistake of your choice that with eight hundred cases you've shut it down or it's wrong what you're going to do now. Both of them can't be right! You will not play - as a government I mean, not you personally - with the intelligence of our own and of Greek citizens! Decide which one is wrong! And one and the other, or one or the other, is your "child". The mistakes are your children. You'll take care of it. We cannot live in paranoia and resignation with news! So, what do we tell the Greek people? Yesterday the President of Officerial Response came to tell us what? He presented us here with an investigation. Listen to what the Greek citizen, the inmate at home, cannot find his right in justice, since the courts are closed, cannot go to church, can't go to the church, can't do Psychosatus, can't do Easter, can't do Resurrection, can't do Godfatheria, can't go to see the parade, can't do anything. The Chief of New Democracy presented to us an investigation that does not fit into public transport, and Alexis Tsipras, the Chief of SYRIZA, presented us with an investigation that does not fit, says, in the protests, outdoors. And the Greek people hear this and say: “They make fun of us? Obviously, they're making fun of us." I'm going to another investigation, Minister. If you're kind enough to listen, because it's your concern, as you lead this ministry. I will invoke numbers from another survey on justice again, with the impression that it is not good at all. One in two citizens doesn't trust Greek justice. I have the investigation in front of me. It is the research carried out by ABOUTPEOPLE and I will testify to it in the Minutes and if you want to obtain it, too. One in two, 50% doesn't trust justice. In the question about 'how independent you consider Greek justice' on a scale from 1 to 9 - 1 is the very low 9 is too - the average is 4.6. We don't even get the base. And if you ask me what research is taking as a major problem, that is possible interference with justice from economic and other interests of 40%. It's not a good picture of what people have for justice. The delays in the administration of justice with 34.4%, political interventions with 16.6%, financial costs etc. It is interesting that respondents believe that a poor citizen has fewer chances of being treated by an immigrant. Mr. Undersecretary, welcome, well-trained, ironhead! You're a young man and much younger me. That's all you guys have to do. That's the image of justice. With this in mind, and this is the conclusion that justice in the Krone era cannot function under accordion conditions. Political courts, family law cases, wage differences belong to that chapter where too much delays occur. That is why we say that the situation will deteriorate and there is an urgent need to increase organic positions. I don't call it syndicated. I say this realistically. I really don't call it syndicated to play it good now. As far as organic positions are concerned, there is a need for aid to the courts, the courts and the courts and courts of peace, which are loaded and with the highly indebted households and the bankruptcys of the Greek households you have legislated and accumulated. For the plaque on the pages, I really won't take time. I think it's cute. Let's not say anything else. To start modernising Greek justice by putting a plaque on the pages of books is at least cute, not to say anything else. Rule 23 has often been said in committees, it is your choice, take it off. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are, however, going on a very important subject, Minister, on the differences in the acquisition and loss of Greek citizenship, as you say in the bill. For us, for the Greek Solution the acquisition of citizenship is not meant, it does not exist. There's no citizenship. You can, if you want, talk about naturalization, but not citizenship. You cannot, if you like, make indiscriminate use of basic terms and concepts at the law level. We must be very careful as a country and you as a government who is granted the status of Greek citizen, by what procedure a foreign Greek is naturalized, that is to say, a thorough examination in any case. They told me that in the committee yesterday you referred to me, but I had gone down for my obligations in plenary. I made a comment on the NGOs, Mr Minister, and you said that there are no NGOs, but Intergovernmental organizations, UNICEF.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u16	It's not a NGO.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u17	That's what I'm saying. I was wrong. Worse. Are you laughing? Didn't you hear that UNICEF in Greece is closed? Haven't you heard of the UNICEF scandal? Can you hear me? Googlare it now. UNICEF Scandal. It was closed by UNICEF in Greece. Millions of euros have been eaten by children. Worse! And even worse because it's an intergovernmental organisation, it's not even a NGOs. Worse, then. Because they told me, I wanted to report it to you. In conclusion, Minister, I would remind you of what Mr Velopoulos says very often. You know, the Greeks have written history from 'no'. You also say no to Europe in this precinct. So for a change, boy! Let's see what happens. In curiosity, say no. However, as far as you say 'yes' the Greek people have started - and that is your problem, but it is an internal problem - you will pay for it in the elections - to buzz some 'no'. It says 'no' to the irrational lockdown, with which a year you have now leaked into society without any results. It says 'no' to the terrorism of the media, for which I am truly sorry because I am from this industry, I am sorry for the image of the information they present, and it is your own money that they have a virtual reality. People say 'no' to compulsory vaccination. In compulsory vaccination it says 'no'. Don't come back to say fairy tales that the Greek Solution says, does, flows. We're against forced vaccination. We say 'no' and people say 'no' to the certificate of vaccination that Mr Mitsotakis took and went to Europe to sample his reality as an inspiration for a file. It won't be possible for people to turn around, travel, go to a movie, a theater if it's not vaccinated. Otherwise, vaccination is optional! But you inspire the vaccination certificate. It says 'no' the world in the collapse of the economy, Mr Chiara. It says 'no' to the Islamization of Greece. It is the 'no' of the world. It says "no" to The Hague crime you're going to do. The day before yesterday, you were talking about the exploratory with the Turks, while "Cesme" is taking walks and provoking and claiming. "No" they say in them. They say 'no' to cover up the responsibilities of the treacherous Prespecies Agreement. You forgot about it. It's not a question. There isn't that either. No exams. We've been yelling for two years to see what happened, like it's a big deal. It says 'no' in the closed churches, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr Heta, let me also say 'no' to further misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. It says 'no' to the Greeks staying away from the parades. It is not possible for the two hundred years of regenerativeism to become a military parade without the presence of Greeks, at the same time as bullies, terrorists, hooligans and every walnut enter into marches every day. There have been a hundred twenty marches in the last forty days. You can't do that. 'Yes' to the marches, 'yes' to the parades, 'yes' to the churches.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u20	The spokesman for Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given that the draft law introduced by the Ministry of Justice has been discussed in detail at all the meetings of the committee responsible, today you will only allow me to address certain articles of this. Before I do, I should point out that in the first chapter, namely Articles 1 to 19, they concern the transposition into our own legislation of the European Regulation 2017/1939 on the application of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of a European Prosecutor. It is a proposal for the creation of the European Public Prosecutor in the form of an independent authority, which was made in 2013 by the European Commission, to prosecute fraudsters against the Community budget. According to the original proposal, the European Public Prosecutor would ensure that any case involving alleged fraud against the Community budget would be monitored to the end. Authorised prosecutors would conduct the investigations and prosecute using technical staff and applying national law. The provisions which now come to incorporate the directive set out the manner and qualifications of appointments and their functions in each Member State, for which a competent European Delegated Prosecutor is appointed. Those prosecutors shall form an integral part of the European Public Prosecutor decentralised to the Member States while remaining integrated into the national Prosecutor's structures and shall be active members of the National Prosecutor in accordance with Article 8(2) of Article 17 and the third subparagraph of Article 96(6) of Regulation 2017/1993. In so doing, they shall act on behalf of and on behalf of the European Prosecutors and shall have the same powers as national prosecutors on a case-by-case basis when exercising their powers laid down in the above Regulations on the right to take a case, the movement, the conduct and termination of a cross-border or non-investigation, the exercise of criminal proceedings, the referral of a case to the court, the performance at the hearing and the exercise of a judicial instrument under national law. In exercising these six responsibilities, they shall follow the general and specific directions, instructions and commands, as appropriate, of the European Prosecutor’s College, of that permanent department which has taken over the case and of the Supervisory European Prosecutor for the investigation, as set out in Article 7. In Articles 4 and 8, we see the presentation of the qualifications that candidates should have for the post of European Public Prosecutor. We see that, in addition to other qualifications, candidates should have a very good knowledge of at least English level, in the fourth article, and of the qualifications of candidates for the posts of the European Authorised Prosecutors, including that they should have a good knowledge of the B2 level of English in the eighth article. I and other colleagues have commented on the acidity of unpredictable English knowledge. I would add perhaps extra foreign languages, but let us stay in English as a basic step. Although we hear it and understand it as hard to find judges at this level who will have an excellent level of knowledge of English, we expect the legislators to see how to deal with this particular issue. Perhaps it could be dealt with in a context of moleculation and recognition. In the same context as the recognition of a second degree, a provision could be added for possible moleculosis of candidates who know perfectly or very well and for some other foreign languages, whether European or not, and to see how there is provision in English for excellent knowledge and if there are no candidates being covered or found to expand the field. In addition, all of us should be attracting candidates with a high level of qualifications. The ninth article describes the procedure for the selection of candidates for appointment as European Authorised Prosecutors, which will be carried out by the Supreme Judicial and Political Justice Council. Article 10 describes the establishment and internal functioning of the European Prosecutors’ Office, the housing of which will be decided by a decision of the Minister of Justice. The number and employment status of these will also be determined by ministerial decision, and the secretariat of the European Chief Prosecutors' Office will be located directly with the Minister. Now in the second chapter bearing the other provisions of the bill we begin with the provision on the reopening of the courts. As I said at the first meeting, a framework for immediate reopening must be created, of course, by respecting all the health measures for the treatment of pandemic, with massive and repeated tests, a practice that we have been asking for over a year now. We don't think the targeted checks are enough. We see it every day around us. We must now adopt and implement the measure of mass and repetitive tests. We don't have any more time. Tests should be carried out at all workplaces, mass tests for citizens. We have now tabled proposals on how we in Parliament and the lawyers in our country have reopened. Please listen to them and apply them. Article 20, with regard to reopening, touches on the issue of cases where the debate has not been held because of the measures. However, many issues remain open, such as 'large', 'broadcast' and so many others. We look forward to the amendment which the Minister has announced on this issue, to see how, and what of which the Ministry of Justice will try to heal. Article 21 provides for the increase in the number of judges, namely the Areopagitaires, by nine, the Deputy Prosecutors of the Ice Bay by two, the Deputy Prosecutors by three and the Prosecutors by four. I have said from the outset that although it is a positive step, it is not enough if it is not part of a wider and more general support and an increase in the number of judicial officers in the courts that are called upon to raise and examine the bulk of the cases that fill our country's rooms. At the same time, we cannot overlook the immediate, urgent need to increase the number of secretaries and administrative staff required to carry out many tasks and a large workload at the same time. Only if strategic and envisaged steps are taken to improve the number of judges and judges in court on the one hand, but also to strengthen directly the positions of judges on the other hand, we will indeed see to it that justice is given more rapid and genuinely alleviated. Until then anything else remains a temporary and transient solution. Moving on, Rule 24 refers to the publication of the decisions of the Council of State, adding the eighth paragraph to Article 34 of the a.m. 18/1989. Article 27 provides for the use of information and communication technologies by the secretariats of the Council of State and the ordinary administrative courts. According to the provisions and documents set out therein, by decision of the President of the Council of State or the General Commissioner of the State of the Prefecture of Regular Administrative Courts, the documents, judgments and documents generally bearing an approved electronic signature may not be reproduced in writing, the entire version of which is digital. It is a positive step, as we are in the 21st century, and we really need to find ways to use technology, but also to use the processing speed it offers. I will close with two specific articles, ladies and gentlemen. I would first like to refer to Rule 23, which has been debated very much in committee, and I think it will be today. Article 23 is about to legislate a cutter to the extent of the pleadings filed at the CCT. In particular, it stipulates that the documents of the proceedings and of the means provided, as well as those of additional pleas and interventions, shall normally not exceed thirty pages and of the pleadings as a rule. As I said, there has been an extensive debate on this issue in committee. As soon as the opposition requested its withdrawal, not only the opposition, but also the representatives, the president and vice-chairman of the bar Associations informed us that there had been no discussions with them and that they had no information. We believe that you will hear our objections and withdraw this provision today so that you can start a proper consultation with all the parties involved and, if appropriate and necessary, return it to a subsequent piece of legislation. We believe that if the provision remains as it stands, it is coming to demarcate and classify the right of access to justice, indeed. We would like you to tell us how the number of thirty has come about in relation to the pages, because there is no study to show that this figure is the best. I asked you at the first sitting without receiving any reply. If you insist on legislating today, along with the time limit for the oral development that has already been delimited, it will limit, but it will also make it classic, as I said, the right of access to justice, with fewer than three times the fine, to do so, and the many who will not be able to give their lawyers the freedom to go beyond what is envisaged, to remain with more limited representation. It is not always possible to think that the pleas and the extent of the pleadings are those which are a brake on the rapid administration of justice in our country. I'm hanging up with Article 32. That's a lot of talk. As you said, Minister, it is coming to complete your election commitment, the New Democracy's election commitment to transfer the penitentiary policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Civil Protection. Our reaction is not only political disagreement. Yes, we disagree vertically, considering the Ministry of Justice as a natural area of penitentiary policy. But you do not conclude today with the transfer only of your election commitment. You grant Mrs Nicholas the ownership of detention stores, Mrs Nicholas direct awards, masks for hamarters, cleaning services for a conference company, for the supply of masks to a seasonal company, for the purchase of personal protective equipment to a food and beverage trading company, and now, after all, you give her ownership without even a board that controls what is happening. I have said this before and I will say it today: let the Prime Minister make Mrs Nicholas end. In addition, it is up to all of you to cover all the bad texts. Minister, you have commented on our positions several times in committee, saying that we did not talk about the body of the bill, staying and staying only in a few articles. I have told you from the outset that the majority are provisions which are irrelevant to the directive. Let us bring the directive separately in order to be able to focus on it. When you bring with her more, and indeed problematic provisions, it is expected and you should expect them to draw interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u22	Me too, Mrs. Bakadima. We are done with the rapporteurs and speakers. From the circle, now, of six chosen by one of each party, only three parties have given speakers. So, Minister, you're going to talk to all three of us from there, whenever you want to talk, you're letting me know. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy, and I would ask the secretaries of SYRIZA and the Change Movement to inform Mr. Zachariad and Kamin, because I don't see them in the Chamber. Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the creation of the European Prosecutor's institution, which is part of the European legal order, was necessary in order to enable the Member States to deal more effectively with complex economic crimes of a financial nature, which are against the European Union's budget. These crimes have so far been quite difficult to investigate, with either archived or examined at national level alone, due to the difficulties arising from different criminal law systems, long-term legal assistance procedures and ambiguities in jurisdiction. Regulation 2017/1939 of the European Union, which provides for the establishment and functioning of this new judiciary. The European Prosecutor will have a wide range of competences to investigate and prosecute crimes against the European Union's financial interests, such as fraud, corruption and offences related to non-payment of VAT. He will be able to work both with the national prosecutors and ask for the assistance of each national authority, the National Transparency Authority, the Independent Public Income Authority and so on. The EPPO is structured at two levels, at the central agency, at European Union level, and at national level with the European Delegated Prosecutors in the Member States, which will continue to act as national prosecutors, performing this dual role. And in any case, it is very important for our country to implement this Regulation in order to cooperate with the other Member States in combating cross-border crime at European level. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the chronic pathogen that arouses the area of justice in our country is the delay in its award. The New Democracy Government has been facing this problem from the very beginning, moving on to reforms aimed at speeding up procedures and promoting e-justice. And that is what it is doing today, with a number of legislative interventions. In the first place, Article 20 provides for the establishment of a home redefinition, i.e. the secretariat of the court, of cases which were not discussed during the pandemic. This arrangement will redefine the abrogated cases within a short time, without any further action on the part of the parties. Also, with Article 21, the organic positions of the judiciaries of political and criminal justice are eighteen to be increased, another significant reinforcement in the ability of judges, the third in turn in our administration, with the wish, Minister, to follow others. In addition, regulations aimed at speeding up the administration of justice are Article 30, which provides for the electronic movement of documents in the Council of State and Article 23, which introduces a number of pages to the documents lodged in that court. And because, ladies and gentlemen, this provision in Article 23 was formulated by opposition unfounded criticism, I mention five important points: firstly, the proposed regulation is in line with European legislative standards, namely the procedure of the European Court of Human Rights and the General Court of the European Union. Indeed, the ECHR, the European Court of Human Rights, is this court which applies the ECHR, namely the European Convention on Human Rights, and, of course, Article 6 of the ECHR on Citizens' Access to Fair trial. And as we all know, there have been some references to Anglo-Saxon and French law and to how our law is structured, to remind everyone, at least those who are legal in the Chamber, that the conventions and Community law are first and foremost the rules of national law. Secondly, there is something we cannot overlook, that there was a unanimous agreement, that is to say, an absolute agreement from the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. Thirdly, the application of the provision does not affect the admissibility of the application and its rejection on this ground and, in particular, the express reference to the word 'principally' means that the judge will decide on a case-by-case basis whether the number of pages in question is sufficient and it is certain that if there is a uniformity, i.e. if the applicants or the applicants are, there will be no limitation of the pages in question. Fourthly, there is no question of the constitutionality of the provision. It is certain that the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which has submitted its report, would certainly have mentioned a comment in this respect if it were to be agreed on this provision with the Constitution. Fifthly, and more importantly than anything at all, the regulation will, in fact, save valuable time to judges, with the best of the parties and with more assumptions. In addition to the above, criticisms were heard by colleagues from Anti-Population and by Article 32 to grant the ownership of the detention stores from the FAO to the Ministry of Civil Protection. However, this regulation, ladies and gentlemen, is clear and legitimate, following the transfer of the penitentiary policy - a political decision - to the Ministry of Civil Protection and will contribute to the proper functioning of the penitentiary shops. After all, the last ones who are entitled to talk about the transfer of public property and public property are the colleagues of the Officerial Representation, that is, the ones who have subjugated the public property for ninety-nine years at the supreme office. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of all the unprecedented unfavourable conditions of the pandemic, the government has been committed to its reform plan in the field of justice, a plan which has had as its main axes the decongestion of the courts and the implementation of electronic justice, which has been incomplete for many years. They deserve sincere congratulations to the Minister of Justice, Mr Kostas Tsiras, because a great deal has been achieved in a short time. Before I close my position, Minister, I should like to mention an issue that we have already discussed and you know it, and I am sure you will soon give a solution. It's the support with human potential of the country's mortgages, including the Katerini mortgage. Ladies and gentlemen, please be sure that the government will prove to be worthy of the challenges of the time and the expectations of all Greek citizens, so that our country has the justice system that suits a modern European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Manny. Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, you remember the Prime Minister and the Ministers responsible here at the foot of the previous period, showing us the papers from the European Agency for the Development of the Pandemic, and we were told 'Green Greece, all the others red', etc.Huh? Let's go see what happens today in other European countries with a similar population. Sweden, then, on the basis of yesterday's figures, ten million people, two thousand seven hundred cases, thirty-five deaths. Belgium, eleven million people, two thousand twenty cases, twenty-one deaths. Germany, eighty-three million people, thirteen thousand cases, two hundred nine deaths. Spain, forty - seven million people, four thousand ninety - two cases, one forty - one death. Portugal, three hundred and eighty-four cases, thirteen deaths, ten million population. France, six and a half thousand cases, three hundred thirty three deaths, sixty-seven million population. Greece, fifty-six deaths, three thousand four hundred sixty-five cases, ten million population. I say this because you cannot only invoke the evidence when the country is stabilising or going better and hide out when things are difficult and dramatic. I say this because we are five months in a lockdown, which has failed miserably, a situation that goes from bad to worse and is completely uncontrolled. And we had warned you in Parliament. The scientists warned you. You saw what was happening all over the world. We lived the tragic situations in Thessaloniki and northern Greece. What preparation was made for Attica? What preparation was made with private and military hospitals? You've made the National Health System a disease. It's a COVID system. If someone gets sick with COVID, he prays to find a bed and an intensive care unit. If he gets sick of something else, he has no place to go. You sorely afflict the world that is sick of other things and that is reflected in human lives. In 2020, then, we had more non-COVID deaths than those we had in the mid-term between 2010 and 2019. And that is why there is a responsibility, because that is what you had to do in cooperation and in order with the private sector and the military hospitals, to guarantee the citizens who have COVID and the citizen who need a simple intervention that they have somewhere to go. For this is why a life is insured, which is why it pays. You're responsible for this downhill. We told you. Design. You wanted to protect and even protect interests today. The NSA doctors have been in the front line for a year. They're getting sick. He has had a 'burn out'. Some have left life, with the known infrastructure and the known gains. Where's the private sector? What's he doing? While some are on the front line of trenches, some are on the back of the camp and gather pine needles and gums. This is the situation in the National Health System. That's the task force you've done. We were with Andreas Blonde in Sismanoglio yesterday. The situation is shocking. And I do not tell you as SYRIZA MP. I'm not telling you to stand up. I'm telling you with the sensitivity of a citizen who's worried about what's going on around him, next to him, in his neighborhood. Doctors and nurses have been exterminated. The tubes are out of my mind. How many times have we discussed what was going on outside of the ITH in November and December in Thessaloniki? Couldn't we predict this thing for Attica? We told you everything, not SYRIZA, the opposition, the scientists. You see what's happening in other countries. You're communicating, pulling slogans, swinging fingers in society and youth. You have supported the fight against pandemic solely and unilaterally in the vaccine. That's a mistake. Vaccines are fine, but what do you say to someone who gets sick in March, and who's scheduled to be vaccinated in April, May or September? That's where they need infrastructure, he needs staff, he needs medication. Why don't you, along with the vaccination that is needed and we all need to be vaccinated - these medications from the international organisations? So let's go to the first year of all positive sciences. The patient wants a bed, a breather and a medicine. Healthy guy needs a vaccine so he doesn't get sick. Here it is over 90% of the population unvaccinated and you say "go quickly to vaccination". That doesn't work 90% of the citizens. And it's not every man's life and his illness, family communication or a number. So what do we do? We do a lot of tests, free molecular and rapid tests, free of charge, in schools when they can open up. Less students per class. You didn't look for a whole year to find more classes, double shifts. More public transport. Less people per bus. Less people per train. More trains, more buses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Zachariadis, you won't have time for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u27	I'll stay, I'll be done. More teleworking, at 70%, especially for those who do not have their own car. Distance work, measures, no arbitrary work, no employer bowling. We put our backs on and put our backs on, and we will never undermine health and public health in the country. Already in November 2020, we made a proposal, do not bring political bills. You didn't hear anything. You've decided unilaterally to acidify yourself. And when we place with proposals of our own health system, you go out and say "you don't have any proposals", ERT doesn't play our proposals and some other media silence them. So come here, let's talk. There are proposals, there are solutions, there are no deadlocks. It requires consciousness, self-awareness, sensitivity and sense of duty. Now, Mr President, you are right, I should like to take a little time with the material of the bill. Unfortunately, time is very tough. What's going on in the field of justice? A year the courts are down. This conflicts with the constitutional requirements, but also with the rule of law in all respects. For one year you've got everything closed. You could, as is done in other European countries, with sanitary measures slowly and slowly move on. Um, you shut them down, because we're afraid of pandemic, and that can have a sense, so you don't support them. Do you remember the lawyers who protested in 2016 and 2017 on the truly high insurance contributions that our government, the « tie movement», had put in place? All these people in the last year are at 600 euros most. Reinforce them decisively. Support the middle incomes, this is the backbone of the Greek economy. Now, the issue we are discussing and I have heard it from the previous position is very important. You go and hand over the property of the Court of Justice Fund to the Ministry where Mrs Nikolaos is Secretary General. Look, would I be open to discuss it, although I know that both political and institutional is wrong to transfer this provision from one Ministry to another, but to Mrs Nicholas? Here last week there are unanswered complaints, issues, direct assignments. Does the Vice-President of the New Democracy go, baptize the child of the President of the independent authority and come today and give this to Mrs Nicholas? There's a little shame in that, isn't there? There's a little empathy, isn't there? Do you think opposition will remain silent and not all the democratic world will raise these issues which are charismatic? I want you to know that. Whatever is being attempted by the use and abuse of public property at the expense of the public interest, we too, but I believe the other parties of progressive opposition will lift it up and the Greek people will find out. Nothing will be able to hide, everything will be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Georgios Kaminas is called in Stepma by the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. We have been discussing these days - and we are finishing the debate today - for the adaptation to the Greek legal order of the Rules of Procedure on enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor. Obviously, the country's immediate adaptation to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure is imperative due to the obligations arising from Greece's participation in the European Union. At yesterday's meeting of our committee, Minister, you complained that the rapporteurs and the spokesmen of the debate have made little mention of the content of the Rules of Procedure. But let me say that you have the basic responsibility for this, because instead of bringing us the Rules of Procedure alone, you have brought us the Rules of Procedure and other provisions, so that you can give the opportunity, especially with the content of the 'other provisions', the debate can focus mainly on other issues. It is a friendly tactic of the government - unfortunately not only of the present but also of the previous ones - either by the method of 'other provisions', or by the method of the amendments which surprisedly come to Parliament, it will always bring the opposition to an extortionist dilemma what to vote and what to vote against. So in the first chapter, which includes Articles 1 to 19, our rapporteur, Mrs Giannakopoulou, has extensively referred to the subject of formal qualifications. And he was right to propose this transitional provision, because it is not actually allowed to serve in European organisations representatives of the Greek public, the Greek justice, who do not possess at least one foreign language. Article 14 provides for the derogation of any general or special provision to be transferred or seconded to the Office of the European Authorised Prosecutors for up to three years, which may be renewed up to three times. We see that this bill also repeats the government's regular practice of derogating from extracts and transfers. This time it also extends to judicial officers. I'm sick of seeing you in bills of your government by way of transfers and distractions. The exception has been converted into a rule. Am I making a mistake, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Kamine, he's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u31	He's in the Rules of Procedure. I am generally referring to the tactics of your government. You come and confirm this time - whether it is in the Rules of Procedure, or not - a tactic, which is now a well-established legislature of your Government. The exception has been converted into a rule. Why this systematic contempt for normal procedure? Don't you understand the harm you're doing in public administration? Do you not realize that by the derogation procedure you constantly override the service councils of the source service and thus strip some services from valuable human resources to place others in a good place to you? That's not a perfect state. So I would like someone, once - not now because of the Rules of Procedure - finally to explain why the government is adopting this policy and when it intends to return to normality. I come to the second chapter: Article 21 once again provides for a change in the organic positions of judges of political and criminal justice. You have not reserved any intervention in the positions of peacekeepers and judges, but also in the number of judicial officers, especially after the adoption of the laws relating to the new Banking Code and the speeding up of procedures for overdue households. I will now come to the article that has caused most of the debates in Article 23. We have seen the serious reservations, the objections expressed by the lawyers' representatives and, above all, the President of the House. However, I would like to stress that this intervention is being done without a study, without some statistics showing us that the extent of the document is making a significant contribution to slowing down the administration of justice, even when there are other institutions which do not even need a study to say that they will make a significant contribution to the decongestion of the courts. I am referring, as I have the obsessed idea, to the mediation institution. I would like us to hear, Minister, what has happened so far in this institution, because I believe that it is the most important institution to contribute to the decongestion of the courts. And not only that, but it will also work pedagogically against the Greek bicommunism. Therefore, instead of giving the battle of the font and the jargon, we better give the battle of mediation. I conclude with the question of transferring ownership and prison revenue to the Ministry of Civil Protection. We have from the outset expressed our opposition to this transfer, because it does not correspond to the very purpose of the creation of the penalty, which is not the continuation of punishment, but prison. It is an opportunity, however, to remember that with Law 4760/2020 the rural prisons are going to be devastated, because the prisoners have returned to the already overcrowded closed prisons and have also been made difficult by this law and the conditions for switching to agricultural. Agia Chania has 71%, Kassandra 65%, Tirynth 50%, Kassavetea 40%. This is an unprecedented picture, at the same time that we said there was overpopulation in normal prisons. I wonder: What exactly is this arrangement aimed at? What exactly is this systematic removal of population from rural prisons aimed at? Let's squeeze them? Do we go to prisons simply to plots that will make use of the Greek public for economic reasons by removing these spaces from the penitentiary system, for example, like in the Cassandra prisons, where it was heard in 2014 that they were meant to be given to a private person to build a golf course? So here we will be looking at the development of this strange tactic, the shrinking of the institution of rural prisons. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. Now we're going to Carditia, Mrs. Silver Skondra from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on this draft law by the Ministry of Justice on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, I would like to make a brief reference to the attitude of the Officerial Representation as we have been experiencing it in the last few days. I am referring to a more general concept that prevails between the SYRIZA officials' ranks on both the role of justice in our modern society and respect for the collective decisions of society, whose democratic expression I recall is the state. SYRIZA by the mouth of his Chief, Alexis Tsipras, called last three days at three-day conferences of protest throughout Greece, completely defying the sanitary measures and ignoring the sacrifices of all Greeks and Greeks to curb the diffusion of the coron. In one and a half months from the beginning of February to the day before yesterday, you have co-organized, invited and participated in a hundred and fifty-one marches and gatherings across Greece in favour of terrorist Koufontina or to protest about the policy followed by the government. How hypocrisy to tolerate, however, when, at the same time as your actions weaken society's efforts to limit pandemic, are you coming before us and complaining to the government that the pandemic has taken uncontrolled proportions? I would like to ask Mr Zachariadis, who gave us information here earlier on about the European countries in detail about how pandemics, cases and deaths are going, why did he not tell us any more evidence? How many steps did they take in these European countries? How many countries did the Chief of Police take the risk? Give us that evidence too to be complete. But you are also hypocrites in matters of justice. We as a government are introducing reforms and changes aimed at an integrated improvement in the institutions of justice, changes that the legal world welcomes. You as a Qualified Opposition follow a sterile refusal, a permanent criticism of everything and an attempt to generalized depreciation. Of course, we do not forget that you also gave very specific examples of writing as a government. I would remind you of the multiple government interventions of SYRIZA - ANEL in the work of justice in a systematic and organised attempt to make justice a controlled tool of your political pursuits. We don't. The associations of judges and prosecutors called them on several occasions, in fact, denounced masses of interventions and attacks by your officials. We are also not forgetting the climax of your government's "achievements" to justice, the disgraceful Law of Fridaypolo, with which thousands of barbecue and criminals of the ordinary Criminal Law were released. You're laughing and crying at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the part of the bill which we are debating today and which is structured into three main chapters: the European Public Prosecutor, the rules on the functioning of the courts, and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice. I would like to refer to the European Public Prosecutor, a newly established Union institution under Regulation 1939/2017. We have heard from our rapporteur that every year at least EUR 50 billion of VAT revenue is lost from national budgets across Europe. The main cause of this is cross-border fraud. Apart from VAT, however, there are other fraudulent practices and irregularities costing Member States and European citizens more than EUR 600 million each year. In order to combat cross-border crime that affects the financial interests of the Union and its Member States and to substantially strengthen our country's judicial cooperation with the other Member States, we incorporate this new institution into our national legal order. The European Prosecutor will be able to investigate effectively economic crimes and cross-border fraud and act directly in such cases, without the need for a timely judicial cooperation procedure. The exercise of persecution will therefore be immediate in order to achieve the best possible recovery of misused money. It will be structured at two levels, the central agency at Union level which will supervise investigations and at decentralised level by Chief Prosecutors in the Member States that, in coordination with the central agency, will prosecute. Of course these Greek prosecutors will have a double role, as they will continue to function as national prosecutors. Details of the necessary and increased qualifications, the experience that they should have in criminal cases of financial crime and the way in which the Greek European Public Prosecutor and the European Authorised Prosecutors are appointed are described in the relevant articles. The second chapter of the draft law deals with the reopening of the courts following the suspension of their work due to COVID. There are also issues relating to the functioning of the Council of State and the ordinary administrative courts. As the relevant regulations in the articles have already been analysed by our rapporteur, you will allow me to focus on the political dimension of the legislative work of the Ministry of Justice for the last year and a half. Minister, Mr Chiara, we are elected to the same law in Carditsa, and I am very pleased that from this step of our National Representation I can congratulate you on the great work you and your worthy colleagues are doing. In twenty months' time you have introduced to the vote seven bills that have reformed the functioning of the justice institution, this particularly serious and at the same time sensitive pillar of power that is the support and last refuge of the weak, bills that have been rewarded by the entire legal community and which have received a large majority in Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, honor the best possible way both our country, Karditsa, and of course the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA and Drama. We know Drama has an island and it's very beautiful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u35	"Graya" advertising, Mr President, from the Step of the House on the beauties of Drama and welcome! Repeat this to be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u36	Be well. It is a very beautiful place and the little island of Drama is a very beautiful location in the center of Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President, and the happy introduction you are making. I shall refer to, Mr Ministers, on very specific points of this draft law, as well as to the amendment we have tabled and put it in the attention of the National Representation. First of all, in Article 23, which - to understand the world - relates to the 'cutter', with regard to limiting the scope of the pleadings to the Council of State with a limit of thirty pages, has raised objections by the legal community, other than the judges of the Council of State. We have an objection to the principle, because it is precisely because the standard conditions are at risk of actually eroding citizens' rights, and we should not allow that in any case. If, therefore, the author of the document above 30 pages is validated, it is precisely because he exceeds the artificial or authorial or arbitrary limit imposed on thirty pages! Secondly, we have said so in committee, there is an issue of how this ratification works. What will he say: 'The secretariat shall consult the President and may notify'? It leaves an ambiguity, which we do not know how it will actually develop. In addition, we have a point of order. Because when the Minister was asked in committee where the thirty-page limit came from and why it is not - for example - forty or fifty, he said that this is the position of the judges of the Council of State. We do not legislate on request, ladies and gentlemen. We are legislating on the basis of data. And if there is indeed an issue of verbalism and the great extent of the pleadings, there should be a debate, the plenary session of the Presidents of the Bar Associations and the judges and we should see whether it is indeed effective to impose the ceiling. So, withdraw it, Ministers. It makes no sense to engrave on the extent of the pages, while Greek justice has so serious problems, and to see whether or not it has to come in and be effective - I repeat - to put a limit on it. Last note on the subject. We are very afraid that when such limits are introduced and enter, they will also be spread unregulatedly to other forms of rights, and we must not allow that and we shall not allow that. We are going to Article 32, which relates to the transfer of all the penitentiary stores in the country after their annexes, as the article says, from the FIFG, which has so far been the competent legal person under public law, to the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy. I understand that Mrs Nicholas appears to be a multi-phase bride in the new government's record of law and order, and has to be won massively and impressively. Clearly, however, we have an objection to this part, because it also creates institutional problems. Of course, it is your choice to go ahead with the penitentiary policy at the Civilian Ministry. That is why you will be judged and perhaps criticised. However, the fact that, by means of a provision of law, all the penitentiary system - I mean, its facilities - Mrs Nicholas and the General - Hypocritical Secretariat - is something that we find opposing. We are opposed above all for institutional reasons, but also for operational reasons. A large part of the FIFG's revenue comes from court acts, from legal activities, and we don't know, you don't say, what this funding will be. Is there still going to be for the FTL, which will have the responsibility of the judges alone? Will it be limited, thus reducing the revenues of the FIFG and reducing lawyers and citizens? These are issues for which we need a documented response. Finally, I will conclude by referring to the amendment tabled by the Members of the SYRIZA, and it is about the undeniable need for lawyers to receive the grant, which has been so much talk about in the last few years. First of all, I have to say that the scientific community with its communication yesterday signed a text, which will also be the basis of a parliamentary action to be developed by the SYRIZA Members, and which has to do with how the government understands its relationship and its responsibility with the scientists. However, since we are discussing this, we are proposing, we are deciding on a matter of the competence of the Ministry of Justice, I will identify the amendment as we have tabled and it is absolutely necessary to strengthen lawyers, precisely because there is this wrong regime: in fact, the courts are failing. Lawyers are not alleged to be a protected SAR in practice. They've had little to collect. They contribute to the year 120 euros each, to the creation of a reserve, which will be examined by the plenary session of the Presidents who have gone and how it has been made available, which does not seem to have been managed in a clear way. But today it is a great need for the government to leave hypocrisy. Mr Hatzidakis has received the objections and rejections of the Plenary Assembly of Presidents, which even came to demand that he resign and proceed with the granting of this aid. It's money that the whole law world needs. It is money that comes from lawyers and is money that actually belongs to them. Finally, we must not put aside the moral dimension posed by the legal world. In this very major crisis, there is a need for 'injections' of support and a present state is needed. There is no need for a state which creates obstacles to exclude the maximum number of beneficiaries of this loan. It is therefore a great responsibility for the government for the situation in which a large part of the lawyers find themselves. It has the potential, with the adoption of this amendment we are making, to provide a minimum of what lawyers really deserve and first of all to restore the validity and dignity of the legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. And a drama right in time. I shall now give the floor to Voliotis, Mr Constantine Maravelia, from New Democracy. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement will be followed by Mr Scandalidis. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by bringing to the honourable Minister the satisfaction of the citizens of Magnesia for the reopening of the courts recently announced. It is necessary to restore access to all those who need judicial protection, as it is a basic precondition for the functioning of the rule of law. I hope that the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, which, on the big issue of the coronary, had issued some unlucky announcements last year, if I may, and I think that the previous position of this piece of judiciary officials in imposing the horizontal suspension measure for all the justice branches, has already been judged and today I believe that we are all aware that justice is just as necessary as other state-run areas, such as the police, the tax office, which continued to work despite pandemic and must continue to work. Therefore, accusations of certain judges who were launched last year against the Minister that he allegedly promotes short-sighted, syndicated interests against the protection of public health, I think they no longer have a place in the public debate. Could it ever be seen as having pending cases of a syndicate interest? Is the quick rendering of justice short-sighted and cynical management, as they were saying? The entire Greek society has now become aware of the inappropriate, at least, of such objections, and that is why the Ministry of Justice is in a position from next week to reopen the system of courts. At the same time, the Government continues to take steps to protect procedures at the audience, precisely to strengthen this feeling of health protection for participants, judges and officials, parties, lawyers and witnesses, protecting not only Greek justice, of course, but the body of Greek society. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the highly successful digital transition achieved in the middle of the coronary, and of course I am talking about'solon.gov.gr', the electronic system for the service of citizens. It is a huge reform that has been completed with steady, systematic steps and now allows for a huge volume of judicial certificates and for electronic document service to be issued to the parties. The generalisation of the use of electronic media by the courts that preceded it has brought about a real revolution - we can say - in the administration of justice. Lawyers file electronic documents and receive thousands of decisions in the same way. In fact, Articles 23 and 27 provide for the corresponding procedures for the Council of State. So we also achieve a reduction in the volume of documents in the JRC, as well as electronic handling by every administrative court of documents having an electronic signature. And today, according to information provided by the Athens Bar Association, the number of e-procedures has increased compared to the pandemic principle at around 800%, as far as civil courts and 130% as the administrative courts are concerned. In the same way they were issued by the Athens Court of First Instance only from March 2020 until now about eighty thousand certificates and by the Athens Peace Court for the same period over a hundred and twenty thousand certificates. These figures alone indicate the size of the positive changes that have been made both in the simplification of judicial procedures and in the better service of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law brings another innovation for Greek justice, the country's participation in the European Prosecutor's Office, a service that aims to focus on the increased protection of the European Union's financial interests, which are, moreover, identical to the public interest. Thus, the Greek state is coming to deal more effectively with cross-border crime against the financial interests of the Union, strengthening the judicial cooperation of our country with both the other Member States of the Union and with the central European structure. The Union's money is also public money and can only be protected in the strictest possible way in the most stringent legal arsenal, especially since our country has been at the centre of European institutions' surveys of mismanagement, such as in the case of funding by the European Union of migrants for the period 2015-2019, an investigation that is in keeping with both direct assignments to SYRIZA for services such as the feeding of migrants and topics 'possibly'. And remember, too, that at least EUR 50 billion throughout the European Union is lost from unreported VAT every year alone. The Member States of the European Union, with the exception of VAT, in just one year have also identified illegal projects cofinancing and grants of almost EUR 640 million. These figures are in themselves enough to give us the image of the work that European criminal justice is called upon to do, and at the same time, they underline the importance of the draft law which introduces the crucial central institution of the European Public Prosecutor, but also of these cooperating European Prosecutors, and that is why we are voting in favour of it. In closing, Mr Minister, I also wanted this step to thank the Government and you personally for integrating the work of the new Grand Chamber in the public-private partnerships adopted last week. This project concerns the study, funding, construction, insurance, maintenance and management for thirty years of a new Judiciary for Magnesia. The Interministerial Committee has done what has to be done and now is the time and the local bodies of Volos to do the part of their work. And it's not time for celebrations yet. We all have to remain committed to our objective and workers seriously and systematically, with a first and most important step on this path, obviously, the rapid finding by the municipality of a credible solution to the placement of the new courts. This is the first obligation of local society and I hope that we will all contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you too, Mr Maraveya. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I see that you are pleased by your Members - of the New Democracy - about the work you are doing in the respective constituencies. That's fine and you're doing it right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u42	Yes, in many parts of Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u43	No, I just mention it because it was not used in Parliament to thank the ministers for their obligations when carrying out their duties. I, ladies and gentlemen, will go from the specialist to the general, vice versa, and say a few words about this bill, because I think that both Mrs Giannakopoulou and Mr Kamine have covered his content completely. On this bill, I consider not a great initiative to participate in the creation of the European Public Prosecutor. It is a self-evident and essential obligation and it is very good that it is currently being done for the wider developments that have to do with the judiciary at European level. With regard to the specific questions raised - and they have already been raised - the need to increase organic positions does not only concern the highest courts, it also concerns the following structures of justice, particularly the following structures of justice, if we want to talk about the substance of improving and improving its procedures. The extradition of the pleadings is a bizarre choice, which in fact curbs judicial protection. Once there is a summary, we must let people say what they believe is being protected in this particular case, because it is an absurd - if you want - and too little for its usefulness. Derogations and appointments and others shall be a regular practice of the Government. We disagree, we disagree, we will constantly disagree, because it really does not fit into a modern government and a State of Staff, essentially selection procedures from the top and on purely party criteria for people employed and exercising a public service. And finally, the concession of detention stores to the Ministry of Civil Protection is both backward and irrational. I think there is no country - I imagine there is no country - and it is a choice that shows a wider culture about how your Government is managing the whole public space. Minister, it is a fragmentary piece of legislation - as, obviously, I imagine you too - and it is a fragmentary piece of legislation, as on all issues. The functioning of justice is perhaps the biggest problem facing the public administration in our country today, the biggest problem with the rule of law, because it is the cornerstone of the rule of law. It is clear that such small-scale interventions do not improve the situation. I must confess to you that when I was in the Ministry of Home Affairs and then we had drawn up the law on 'outside', when I visited the courts and was taken by the judges where all the civil servants who had to look at the justice - and not the committee of Parliament - were stored, because then we were talking about political persons - I was afraid, because only mice could be in there and no control, obviously, could be done. Since justice cannot promote economic crime, it must discuss and speed up the decision-making process relating to secondary, three- and five-way cases which the staff do not have and the opportunity to deal with, quickly, the problems will remain and glean in the same waters. The absolute priority of this choice would require better preparation, more bold initiatives, better legislation and not fragmentation and emblematic bills, such as what we are discussing today. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mrs Fofi Gennimata, in the debate with the Attica sanitary staff, proposed five specific measures for immediate implementation in addressing the problem that our country has been so keenly experiencing in these days, and that is a dramatic spread of pandemic. I am saying these outlines, because I think they are of some interest: firstly, the requisition of private hospitals and especially of large hospitals with complete structures, instruments and human resources to meet the needs, so that they can participate in a uniform design on the same terms as the public, the compulsory integration of their staff and the integration of military hospitals into the design. Secondly, the compulsory integration of private doctors with specific qualifications, such as pneumonologists, pathologists and others, into public hospitals to meet the needs of the new CIVID clinics created by the Athens Medical Association and the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. Thirdly, proliferation of tests carried out in the population with proper detection of cases, ensure rapid test for all non-COVID patients entering hospitals and their escorts, so that they are not infected there. Fourthly, direct operation of primary health care levels with the participation of private doctors and especially those who have contracted with the EEAS for a visit to the homes of CIVID patients, in order to decongested hospitals. Fifth, the creation of a special coordination centre capable of providing support and guidance to hospital doctors and to the stairways of primary health care. These proposals, however, are the end of a national project coordinated, integrated, concrete steps and planning the needs before the data themselves appears, a project which does not exist in a today's 'according' policy and for so long the government of'seeing and doing'. I read something that is very characteristic: When you close the market in the three hundred and five hundred cases and reintroduce it to three thousand and five hundred cases, and even full of up to 98%, it is a confession of failure or underestimate the intelligence of the people and the citizens you govern. I think this is the most characteristic example of the failure of the government's specific policy, which, with so much complacency every day, presents the government and so much, if you like, 'incarceration' of its arguments in a solidity that 'all goes well', 'all solve' and 'all handled'. Of course, this comes in connection with the country's political problem. And the political problem with the country is that to have the national plan another type of governance is needed, another type of unity of the people's base, another type of quality of democracy and public dialogue, to borrow the theme that came last Friday to debate in the House and which was then developed last Friday in the debate on Mr Tsipras's proposal and yesterday on what we lived here in the context of the confrontation of politics and pandemic. We have repeatedly lived through the confrontation in this Chamber, which is the most embodied and true image of political forces and practices. We lived in particular the controversy of last Friday and its outcome at yesterday's sitting. We have lived through the setting that is mainly made up of the government as constantly taking the initiative, but also with the unequivocal support of the Officerial Representation, a scene completely inconsistent with the seriousness and the scale of the problems. We lived the rhetoric of limbs in the name of unity. We lived the permanent return to yesterday, such as 'what we did', 'what you did', 'what they did' in the name of the proposal for tomorrow. We call for the settling of arguments, such as buses and enclosed spaces, to be blamed for the demonstrations. It is certainly the fault of the protests, and of course it is also the fault of closed spaces and buses. But that is not a controversy that answers the problem. How do you treat the desert citizen who can't finally understand where the disease and the virus come from, but also the insecurity and all that lives? We also lived through personal revelations and ironic reports. Yesterday I felt really bad. I have been in this Chamber thirty years and have been trying to figure out what all this is about what the country is facing. Unfortunately, it is the setting of two'monomans' in a arena with an entire people immersed in its problems, founded on its idolism and constant quarantine, almost forsaken by any legitimate claim and by every conquered right, deprived of even of its private needs, restless and unsafe for its own life. It is a people who are seen as voiceless the scene of the rivalry and hostility of the leaders. Mr. Mitsotakis, the country's responsible governor, seeing his choices to fail and widen the national and social deadlock, resorts to multiple arguments of moral-political content with hegemony characteristics. It is based on a popular superpower that despite the communal support storm, it has recently begun to display the first cracks. However, it is an arrogance without depth and ballast, while it exercises power in a centralised and tragic way. The second, Mr. Tsipras, having as an end in regaining to her at all costs, is involved in the era of the "indignant" and the athletics of his first victory, having the illusion that history can be repeated without considering that the story is repeated only as a prank. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. The Prime Minister exploits the insecurity and conservative reflexes of society, highlighting law and order. A society that lives with this fear and with this insecurity obviously accepts this logic to a large extent. On the other hand, there is an intensification of confrontation over real rights that should exist and be guaranteed, but in a particular way that does not conflict with the social need by creating the climate of exploitation of the justified indignation that exists in the world today. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this bisecting logic cannot continue in the name of unity. The place must rediscover its way and its people with an absolute sense that in such a crisis, in such a triumph that the country is only going through conditions of national understanding can the ship come out in calm waters. I think that the same feeling that I felt yesterday in the debate that took place in the House and that I live all the times that this debate is taking place in the same recurring and monotonous way, must be felt by the great majority of the Greek people. We have an obligation as a political system to give him a radical response. We, with the few parliamentary powers we have, are making every effort in this direction, but not in the ears. And that is not an accident for us, which we will continue our efforts as much as we can in a better way, but it is an accident for the country's progress and for the future of this people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. And now I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, and then I would like to inform you that since Mr Kegeroglu has not come to the Chamber - who will not be here because he is at the Conference of Presidents - I will give the floor to Mrs Evriou and then to the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Kotsira. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the issues dealt with by the current law of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to focus a little on the grim topicality. I am referring, of course, to the rapid launching of cases, as I have already said. We're talking about three and a half thousand cases a day. We are talking about six hundred twenty-two tubes, which are on a multi-day standby - up to five, six days - in order to find intensive treatment units. We're talking about fifty and sixty deaths a day. The situation is now out of control. Doctors give a truly unequal battle on their own. And we have the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilia, to beg two hundred doctors from private hospitals, instead of finally moving on to a well-appointed and very necessary order. We are therefore making a last call, because the National Health System is falling apart, finally serving public hospitals and ending deaf in the calls we have made as Opposition. I would also like to be very conscious of the very recent negative developments that have opened even deeper wounds to Greek society. I am referring, of course, to the tragic car accident with the death of 23-year-old Jasona in conditions that are really very irritating and discomfortful in Greek society. On behalf of Mera25, I would like to express our warmest condolences to the family of the deceased and, of course, our complete support and support for a family that gave lessons of humanity and dignity to the whole of Greece. I would also like to inform the House that the Members of the House, Mr Tasouula, have sent a letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, in order to help make available the information available to the competent authorities and to take the appropriate steps to facilitate the settlement of the matter. Unfortunately, however, in the face of such a tragic incident, all citizens have witnessed the cruel, brutal and irrational face of the government, which has really tried to renounce its responsibilities, not to take any responsibility and not to react quickly in order to investigate this case. So we see parallels on the part of the government. I would, of course, like to refer to the fact of police arbitrariness and violence, in accordance with the complaints made by the Ombudsman himself, Mr Pottakis, who has placed himself in this position with Parliament's broad and increased consensus and expresses society rather than the government. He has said that these incidents have increased by 75% on the governance of the New Democracy. And how did the New Democracy respond as a government? He responded with a text of cheap propaganda for the forty - two so - called truths about police arbitrary and excessive violence. Even your own, the strong supporter of your Government, Mr. Alivizatos, the constitutionalist, who has been in charge, as you know, of the Committee on Police Violence and Succession Investigation, has said that the incident in Koukaki with the Indare case has ceased to work. It's been put into total use, inactivated. He also said that the conclusion of 4 May 2020 on the incidents in question was not exploited by Minister Chrysochide and the conclusion has come to the bells. Obviously, this is the government's interest in investigating these incidents. You have come to an end to this committee and you have completely abolished it. Mr Ministers who are present, and at the moment you represent the government, I would like to ask you whether you are satisfied and pleased with the Greek police's efforts so far. Are you pleased that a man was effectively abducted to the GATS, subjected to torture, beatings and threats to his family, wore him a hood, tied him backwards and threatened everyone in order to even provide evidence of his own people? Are you happy about the eighteen-year-old who also received fierce beating and sexual assault? There are too many complaints about the cases of beating and inhumane treatment within the GDR, where screams are heard from the treatment of detainees. And we see Mr Chrysochide attempting to denounce the complaints, without going into a thorough investigation, trying to cover up the incidents and renounce his political responsibility. We ask, indeed, if you are associated with all these practices. What do they look like? Do they show you have to serve a greater purpose with such inhumane means? And what is the purpose of your end-end service? Because there is something that our tongue has haired to say. I said this and in the light of the debate on the draft law on outdoor meetings. I said at all the meetings - but you have isolated only a specific phrase from me, which you voted on the lifting of my immunity - that there is a great lack of education, a great lack of management capacity in the police, that democratisation needs to be adopted, European standards need to be adopted. And the political leadership comes and essentially all these unacceptable behaviours welcome them, they are supported by arguments which cannot be put into any suffering of common human logic. On the other hand, there are too many videos circulating online, which disguise the media monopolies and all this propaganda that you are adopting in your rhetoric. You accept even press releases that come to say about the car accident that there were lights broken. I mean, you're making the white one. You literally distort reality. You have divorced with the truth and you denounce the Opposition for biscuiting and polarization when you are actually creating "fake news" intent trials when you are provoking to split Greek society with false news and trying to categorize citizens into children and scoundrels. The police, after your training, of course, must be a model because they are the front-line of the state and they are the ones they teach. And they should teach by their behaviour, except that they should protect society. So people see all these diversions, and they think very reasonably that if in relation to and in the face of the traffic, we can imagine what is going on behind the cameras, where there is no tangible evidence. I now come to another example of your arbitraryness and your policy. I'm going to talk about the outcome of the disciplinary procedure with the incident in the Polytechnic anniversary of the police officer who broke up the bouquet. The result is rebuke. But for the man in Nea Smyrna who was beaten wildly, for the doctoral student at the Aristotle University, there is no rebuke, there is wood in the good of the defendant. So these practices people see them and now understand your lies. He understands your covering policies very well. He understands your trabucism. And to prevent any provocation, we do not approve, but we have already condemned the dreadful act of beating against the police. The difference is, however, that we condemned each other. The Prime Minister went out to order only after this incident, the incident of beating against the police, and he said nothing about our fellow citizens with the opened heads and the trampled rights. So you're the one who inspires division, you establish him, because the Prime Minister himself has chosen camps. Society certainly sees and understands this very well from the vibrant social media poll with the hundreds of thousands of negative comments and negative reactions from citizens under the public position of Prime Minister and other government officials. Since the 12th of March, when there was this poll, Mr. Mitsotakis disappeared. It reappeared yesterday from what I understood on social media. You have reached the point even in the YouTube channel to disable negative comments for the Prime Minister, as if he were your Prime Minister and not a public body, who must be judged and accountable. I would now like to stand on a point, to a great intellectual, relentless intellectual, a multitude of personality, Vassilis Rafaelides, who had spoken in 1992 on a television show for some people - I will say, for instance, - 'which showed a mood of cleansing and cleansing of this evil place that needs to be thrown into the fire in order to cleanse itself and also a mood of inquisitioners who would like to burn all dissidents and what keeps them from this vandal, brutal act is that they live in the twentieth century'. He talked about people who "will clean us with detergents that make the most profound psychological and moral stains". So, then, thirty years ago, in view of some other issues, this man had talked about a phenomenon of conservative regression, which actually illustrates the political phenomenon of today, that is, a government that people want not to think about, consume vaguely what the government does to them, not to have a say in it, any counterpart levelled through a propaganda and misinformation router. And it comes to the point that the Prime Minister, because he knows that he cannot invest his political capital in youth, which has degraded the Prime Minister's success story to advise them to look after the dangers on social media, because he knows that there is a lost game, that the Prime Minister is burnt paper and that on social media there is at least a cross-check of information and more direct democratic procedures. Even internationally-approved instruments describe your policies with the most insane points. Attributes in Edinburgh show the message: "Democracy in crisis. Solidarity in Greece". In Paris, we are taking solidarity with a slogan: “I am hurting. So far.’ You have generally managed the issue of democracy's quality to become the first issue of topicality, and that is why I am dedicating so much of my speech on these issues. Let me say that the leaders who have become their country at these points are Trump, it's Orban, it's Bolsonaru in Brazil and Erdogan in Turkey. I'm coming to the bill now. To talk about justice. And the question is, what justice to talk about, Mr Ministers, when so many months have left the courts closed, without any prior consultation with the legal world, without any suggestion from the Committee on Lombards, which in the first wave of the pandemic you had enacted, drink water in its name and now you have written it in the oldest of your shoes and invoke it according to your beam, only when it suits you. What, then, is the quality of justice, when the excellent contributors to it, who are lawyers and notaries, are also in forced holidays, are in dissolution and are calling for your resignation, Minister? And I have to tell you here that the legal world, the world of lawyers, are not people who raise tons and are going to be inexpensive to ask for resignations. They are in favour of dialogue, they are well placed for dialogue, but with these policies you have reached the limits of exhaustion. They have come out too many times to protest with long-term abstentions, which cost their incomes. They have now reached the point where they are asking you to return the trade fee they have paid, the social solidarity allowance. And you come to find a solution immediately to the only problem for you that is currently stirring up the legal world and the justice that is how much the document is being presented to the Council of State! So we're really serious? Is that the problem that concerns justice all this time? It is a pity for the winter sector of scientists who have also sent a letter of course to the Minister of Labour about the amounts of support. EUR 400 is a funny amount, but not everyone will. He'll get it a piece that'll declare a 20% cut. That's where you're putting extreme restrictions. So we have lawyers, notaries, we have judges at forced holidays, problems which not only concern justice, are problems of the rule of law and of the civil society, and you are supposedly announcing that you have made brave decisions. Can we talk about your practices all along? Can we talk about the useless coronary detection gates outside the ministry? For amounts directly awarded to large legal offices? Talk about the amount of EUR 390 000 to a specific body, a body that says will support the Minister's Legislative Initiative Office? Why? Aren't your consultants enough? Isn't that enough for you judges, all you have for associates? Moreover, we know that basically the legislator is the perfect structure of Mr Gerapetti. And you also put the cutter in Article 23 with the threat of imposing a financial penalty against the allegedly violating lawyer. Minister, I am in the unpleasant position to tell you, without having any personal issues with you, that it was a very wrong choice for the Prime Minister to enter this ministry. I respect your scientific property, but you're a doctor. You have nothing to do with the legal world. You have nothing to do with the problems of justice, with the daily problems lawyers face. You may be an excellent doctor. I won't question it. As much as I have to do with medicine, you have the legal science. The lack of knowledge and experience in such an important place, such as the area of justice, does not allow you to have a private perception of things, but to take advice that you do not care to explore. They told you that reducing the scope of the application is a practical European, to adopt it, without seeing whether the conditions, the subject matter, the procedural traditions are comparable and proportionate. Also, that no justice under the Continental Law applies that law. You are now opening a ferry which will create a bad precedent for the rest of the courts, for the Areo Ice, for the Court of Auditors, for the courts and tribunals. Under the pretext of delaying the administration of justice, you blame the blatant lawyers who are allegedly wasting the time of the judges in this way and that is how the liquidation of the cases is fading. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I would like to say that for two hundred years there has been a firm and uninterrupted tradition of the Ministry of Justice's portfolio being entrusted to lawmakers, people who have experience and knowledge either as judges from the seat or as lawyers from the chairs. This tradition has some logic. It is not a personal matter at all, I repeat. The Prime Minister, however, has made the mistake right now and decided to make an originality without considering the consequences. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. You have your teratology too if you want to talk. Mrs Anna Euthymou has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an important piece of legislation for justice. It is the seventh of a number of similarly important legislation, including the legalisation of the GDPR, the institution of mediation, the provisions on the Court of Auditors and others. The Ministry of Justice produces a great legislative work and a multi-faceted work, in view of the new legislation that they are to come up with. The establishment and establishment of the European Public Prosecutor is a very serious institution. Our country comes more shielded against international crime, but it also strengthens its role as an effective partner and Member State in the wider European legal system. At the same time, we must stress that this bill strengthens the role of the Greek Public Prosecutor as an official of a wider legal community. Indicative of the need for the establishment, implementation and operation of the European Prosecutor's Office is the evidence in the 'PricewaterhouseCoopers' survey, according to which 47% of companies worldwide have experienced some kind of financial fraud in the past twenty-four months, with more widespread investment fraud such as 'boiler rooms' via e-mails and social networks. The total cost of these is 42 billion. I'm filing the report on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The proposed provisions therefore define the qualifications and the way in which the Greek European Public Prosecutor and the European Authorised Prosecutors are appointed. The European Prosecutors' Office is hereby established. A stable, transparent, meritful and objective framework for the selection of the European Public Prosecutor and European Authorised Prosecutors is hereby established. The arrangements and conditions for the cooperation of the Greek European Prosecutor are laid down with the European Chief Prosecutors. And the staff of the office of the European Chief Prosecutors. With regard to Article 23 on which there has been a great deal of talk about the extent of the documents in the Council of State, I would like to say that it is a reform provision. I really understand as a lawyer the difficulty of including all legal arguments in such serious literature in thirty pages. But that's not restrictive. On grounds he can go further. But, in my view, I am entirely in agreement with the need to modernise justice and adapt to modern European and global data, where the debate on the next day should, in my view, focus on the era of e-Justice, e-justice. You have accused us that we are indeed associated with the proposals of the State Counsellors. This judgment, however, answers the General Court of the European Union and the Court of Human Rights. As far as Article 21 is concerned, it is important that the positions be increased. The position of prosecutors is considerably increased. However, it is important that the positions are also increased for parts of the Ice Bay, because the Areos Ice actually has a lot of work and it is in the very right direction. Also justice, Minister, has a lot of work to do. And it is really important that you said that sixty-five new judicial officers were in office and that more than a hundred judicial officers were hired and others were expected to do so, and that they would reach the number of two hundred. Obviously it is important that all of this is part of a specific programme and is not an accidental one, nor is it an incidental one. Indeed, justice has a lot of gaps. And this will emerge even more when the courts open up and this accumulated volume will have to be handled by very specific people. So, Minister, it would be good and reasonable to exhaust all the margins available to further staff justice with judicial and judicial officials. With regard to the offense suffered by justice in this period, I think at least that we can all agree in this Chamber that the safeguards have been invaded, and at least that pandemic has not lost the fundamental and essential rights of the citizens and the people in command. I believe that this is a common place, a basic principle that we can all agree on. Of course, as a lawyer, I understand that the lack of justice in a series of cases such as family workers who are too sensitive or workers in which the employee cannot claim his wages or the hires that a small owner can have a single income. That is why it is in the right direction to introduce provisions on the opening up of courts. I have also read that you will bring an amendment to the further opening of procedures. I would like to draw attention to two things. I believe that it is necessary to provide for the extension of deadlines for the exercise of legal remedies and legal aid while you are judging it, so that rights may not be lost, so that time-limits can not be raised so that lawyers can reopen these procedures. As should also be anticipated, there should also be rules on non-payment of deferral and magnification within a reasonable period of time. Finally, as regards the question of the financial situation of the lawyer's industry, it is clear that when the courts close for a year because of pandemic, lawyers cannot have any professional and economic development. According to statements by the President of the Association of Thessaloniki, Mr. Koutsochonas, in Thessaloniki, the decrease in pre-confidence stamps in the months that the courts have closed is 86% in the first phase of the pandemic and 55% now. In this context, it would be reasonable, in the light of the epidemiologists' suggestions, to find ways to open more court procedures, whether they are rapid test, or a prioritisation to judges, judges, lawyers, lawyers. It is something that at least debates a lot in our spaces. It is really undeniable that the government has spent too much money on supporting businesses, workers and professionals. So you could consider, because the law firm has been hurt, you can see and exhaust all the margins available to further support this industry. To conclude, it is in the right direction to add the participation of a representative of UNICEF to the national mechanism for the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of the action plans on the rights of the child, because it will indeed be able to give us know-how and adopt the best practices that are being implemented at international level. The immunisation of the rights of the child in the most complete way is necessary as ever. With these thoughts I am voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Happily, and for the time being. Mr Georgios Kotsiras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech from the main point of view of the bill, the main body, the main targeting that undoubtedly concerns the application of the provisions of Regulation 2017/1939 on enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor. And after a thorough assessment of the draft law in the committee over the past few days, it is indeed proven - and everyone acknowledges this - that this provision, this provision, this structure, helps to closer and more efficient cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in order to avoid cross-border fraud. It's a very basic issue. Every year many millions of euros of VAT revenue are lost from national budgets across Europe because of this cross-border fraud. Many who are involved in cross-border crime and international organised crime avoid criminal prosecution because of the non-existence of this structure to control such financial offences. So it will be possible for this European Prosecutor to investigate effective offences against the European Union's budget, to strengthen judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and the benefit of this will be to establish cooperation between the Member States, a substantial duplication within each country's own law of rules and principles, which will take the legal field to combat this kind of crime. This bill is at the forefront. It is obviously a regulation which, to remind you, is a legal instrument that is directly applicable, so our country is also obliged to apply the provisions mentioned therein. It is not a matter of adoption or not, whether or not discretionary, on certain issues. Here we are transposing and implementing in detail provisions that strengthen our country to be able to deal with such phenomenon at international level and obviously at European Union level, as far as fraud is concerned. A stable, transparent and objective framework for the selection of the European Public Prosecutors and European Prosecutors is therefore established, with criteria for the specialisation of these persons, so that they can serve their role. The legislation follows the structure and provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The powers of the European Prosecutor shall be defined as the qualifications of the candidates, the acts of inquiry laid down shall be defined in order to enable those acts to be carried out within a specific procedural framework. The recommendation, staffing of the Office of the European Chief Prosecutors is regulated. Describe the selection procedure. It is defined - in my opinion, a very important provision, which has also been put to the debate in committee - what is the principle that may be called upon to resolve complex procedural disputes between the European Public Prosecutor and the National Prosecutor. It is envisaged that the Office of the European Authorised Prosecutors should connect to the integrated judicial and criminal justice management system, as well as to the European Prosecutor's case-management system, in order to have those critical data in order to manage electronically quickly, quickly and obviously confidentially information that will be useful in combating these offences. Transitional provisions and authorisations are provided for, which regulate as soon as possible our country's immediate need to join in this framework of international cooperation. And I do not understand why there has been a debate on allegedly derogating cases of extracts. These are firstly the obligations arising from regulatory legislation and we need to work quickly so that our country is protected and protected in the international framework of cooperation. Therefore, our homeland is being shielded in this way at legal level, at the level of cooperation, in order to meet its obligations towards the European Union, but above all, to be able to cope with critical issues which also have a national dimension. This was the first part of the bill, which, without doubt, in my view, is an important provision, because it ensures as I have said the country's interests. The second part of the bill, the rest of the chapter, certainly raised a great deal of discussion in both committees and what I understand in plenary. Let me begin with Article 23 that has been mentioned. How do we go so far - and we are talking about lawyers and claiming our legal status - that this applies to the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights? Do we want to criticize? Let's get out of here. How do we throw this off top? Is the Court of Justice of the European Union, a standard court in its judgments, in its operating manner, or the European Court of Human Rights, in particular, which assesses sensitive cases and, very often, radical case law, thus overcoming this argument or presenting that there is a cut, that there are issues which are unacceptable and admissible of the judicial instrument? There's no such thing as that. Anyone reading the provision understands that there is a dialectic relationship between the court and the lawyer in order to avoid misuse of matters, which may also lead to delay. We are not saying that this is just the problem of justice, but this is also an issue that is being assessed. But the opposition and the logic of criticism must be reflected in the specific facts, not in things other than what the provision says. Now let's go on the subject of the wider area of justice that has been put on the table and how it works. Because there are indeed provisions relating to gradual reopening, which is a titanic effort to come and indeed to normalise the functioning of the courts, which is a key pillar of democracy and the exercise of the rights of all citizens. But we must say - because we are talking about some people, as if we are in a neutral environment - that the government has been called upon to legislate throughout this entire period, to exercise regulatory authority in conditions of absolute crisis, in circumstances where they often have contradictory data, on the one hand pandemic and health protection, which is the first thing we need to discuss and on the other hand, on the other hand, the need to actually operate the institutions and the courts and to safeguard everyone' rights. There has been a great effort all along to ensure that no citizen's rights are lost, that there is no harm to the core of rights. There is no question that it is going through a difficult period, such as the whole of society, and the area of justice. There is no question that the justice officers, whom I wrongly - if you would like my opinion - who are making this opposition try to put them into conflictual sense, lawyers against judges, high-level judges to low-level judges. What's this? In other words, I consider this to be one of the factors that leads society to be seen with distrust. Mr. Kalamatiano, because you sought me before I came, there is no doubt that lawyers are affected and that efforts have been made all this time, in the context of the government's economic policy, to strengthen themselves as freelance professionals and indeed the government is trying to put its back on it. But you and Mr Zachariadis previously remembered what the SYRIZA government did in a neutral environment, with the « tie movement», which you swept through. You swore it. Eight months of abstention were the lawyers for the insurance, a key part of their everyday lives and life. You deafly swayed them for the tie - and the other scientists - and you come now and you remember the lawyers, perhaps trying to draw political benefits. For the trainees, you mentioned, there was an earlier exercise programme in the courts, and I, as chairman of the new lawyers and trainees, together with colleagues and other places, had supported it. Do you know who abolished it? The SYRIZA period. Now there is, there is, and we're trying to improve it. Are these issues that alone solve the problem? Obviously not. Is there a need for further strengthening the institution of his justice, the role of the lawyer? But do not get to the point of distorting reality to draw benefits when your own government's actions towards scientists have had the exact opposite results. Another issue I would like to raise, and I think it is very important on the issue of the bill, is for the National Action Plan for the Child, which is being extended. The composition of the mechanism for evaluating the National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child, which will be presented in the next period with a representative from UNICEF, is indeed necessary to strengthen our country's know-how and to be able to present a comprehensive programme for the rights of the child. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a little more time and I'll be done. I will tell you that we are already doing concrete actions in relation to the rights of the child, which are part of the National Action Plan, in cooperation with the FRA, in order to strengthen the framework, and to monitor it and see where it needs improvements. Our country has already been chosen by the Council of Europe for participation in the consultation of children in the process of building a new Council of Europe, on the subject of the 'Policy Strategy for the Rights of the Child 2022-2027'. We are actively involved in this process. There is, as you know, already an increased sensitivity to the forthcoming changes made to the Criminal Code, and the Minister, Mr Tsiara, and from us to the entire Ministry of Justice, to specific points that protect impotence. We are in cooperation with the "Smile of the Child" on matters. I have heard Mr Lappa, who is now on the screen, referring to the 'Homes of the Child' and said that we will be talking about today. Mr. Lappa, there was a law in 2017. The delegated act was adopted in 2019. There are difficulties in the legal framework that you delivered, which was actually a sign at the beginning. It's a legitimate targeting, reasonable target. We are making Titanic efforts to operate the "Homes of the Child" and to remove the administrative obstacles to housing areas of these houses. There has already been a decision by the Minister, Mr. Tsiara, a committee which assessed a new legal framework to strengthen and enable the "Homes of the Child" better to serve their real purpose. We are in this direction unequivocally consistent. But when we make criticism, let's know what we're talking about. From the European Commission's official score board for justice friendly to young people for 2019, which assesses the events of the SYRIZA Government, our country is last. Cyprus, Malta, Greece. It's late. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Justice, George Kotsire, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So when we're criticising, it's fair and reasonable and we're going together to a goal. But, when we were last and we are now doing actions to upgrade the country, we should be a little more calibrated. Don't plunder on matters that have to do with the child, with sensitivity. We are all sensitive, but it is also demonstrated by our actions. Alas, Mr. Lappa. I see you from Webex, for that reason I address you because you said so yesterday. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. Two comments, one on the Prime Minister and the social media made by Mrs Adamopoulou. But is it possible now to opposition to the Prime Minister's social media and how were the comments dismantled? The Prime Minister in this pandemic battle came out of the first moment ahead, made endless references to the Greek citizen, informed. He got ahead of himself and of data that would be relevant to times of crisis, to inform, to be called to manage the situation. And all this time the Prime Minister is present, he fights for the digital certificate that was recognised yesterday by the European Commission. It was a proposal from the Prime Minister. Let us not go ahead with the debate on data which is not about the management of reality. Last comment and I close, Mr President, my first position. I have also heard Mrs Adamopoulos - I regret to say that - who is a progressive politician at Mera25 to judge a minister for his professional status. I'm a lawyer...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u50	As he has judged us as lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u51	Do you think it's a progressive place to judge a politician for his choice from his profession? Is that progressive? It is the definition of limiting choices. The definition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u52	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u53	And also to be judged by choices. Have things been done all this time in the Ministry of Justice in relation to digitisation, in relation to electronisation, in relation to the management of the pandemic a year by means of procedural means which are very difficult to achieve so that rights are not lost and to make this criticism? I think it's wrong. I consider this to be the wrong way of dealing with reality. The opposition must always express its opinion and put forward concrete proposals, but they must be done on the basis of facts and facts. I close, Mr President, by saying that this bill is a bill that strengthens our country's international law. He gives important weapons and tools to the Greek judge to deal with cross-border crime. It resolves issues relating to the everyday life of justice and I think it should be supported by all the wings of the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr. Secretary, why did you speak to me, where do you decide that the crisis I've made is backwards? It has a specific quality. So I would like to ask, and I would like to answer, which criteria have you chosen in this ministry, on the basis of which criteria, to serve this ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u56	Based on the principle of popular sovereignty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u57	The people voted to be a Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u58	That is the principle of popular sovereignty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Floris, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u60	Uh, no, Mr. Pleari. It was a prime minister's decision to get into this ministry, and the people did not vote to put the Minister of Justice on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u61	Mrs. Adamopoulou, say what you want, leave Mr. Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u62	There's a lot of your failures. We have also attended a council on the bill of conscientiousness that will follow and be judged by the board by your knowledge and experience, because you will go through a very dangerous bill, but that is another matter. Whether you have the experience, training and knowledge in relation to the bills you bring is seen by the failures of your choices so far. This is not a regression, it is not a backward criticism. Why then the tradition so far, even before the previous government, why did he want to be a Minister of Justice? Is that a preservative matter? Mr Plory, I am very sorry for the answer you have given. She's really unlucky. The Greek people did not elect him. And I repeat, I don't have a personal issue with you, I respect you, but every ministry wants the Minister. Why the Department of Health entered a doctor, regardless of whether his choices are also too bad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u63	You're welcome. The Minister will answer Mr. Chiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u64	To be honest, Mrs. Adamopoulou, I thought you'd try to reconstruct what you said earlier and even after you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u65	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u66	Let us talk, too. You said what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u67	Mrs. Adamopoulou, at least the Minister didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u68	You ask and you don't want to hear the answer? Is that democracy? Anyway. But I think we should put some things in order. Is justice a legal area? Justice is the main pillar on which society is founded. And the way in which the data relating to it is not just about the judges and lawyers, who should have been exclusively Ministers for Justice, it is about society itself and the citizens. And that's something you should understand. I imagine you will agree that all these problems that you come to each sitting and you mention to me are not problems that have arisen today. I imagine you understand that until first he was not a non-legal Justice Minister. In other words, Mrs Adamopoulou, and without me obviously wanting to put any kind of reproach on any previous Minister for Justice, we must all understand that the only objective that we all have to serve here in Parliament - particularly myself as a member of the Government - is how to create a framework of conditions and rules through which justice, which will serve first justice and immediately after society and citizens. Unfortunately, all the other things are a debate which not only honours a representative - it is supposed - a democratic progressive party, but on the contrary creates a heresy or restriction which in no way can there be any democratic country, any democratic parliament or any democratic debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou of the Change Movement is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u70	It's interesting the conversation he opened, except it's old. It's cleared up. Mrs Adamopoulou, the position is that the Ministry of Rural Development must be a geopole, the Ministry of Health must be a doctor, the Ministry of Justice must be legal. It is important today to see how the government operates and how the policies it pursues are and not to lay down the responsibility for the major mistakes it makes in the Minister's specialty. And the government is making a huge mistake when it does not consult those involved in the administration of justice, which, first of all, are its own officials and, of course, the lawyers, lawyers and their official collective bodies. The plenary session of the lawyers, therefore, has expressed a particular opinion on the issues of pandemic and the speeding up of justice and the issue of the quantitative cutting-off of the pleadings. We would like to say that we need more clarification, Minister, of the framework for the reopening of the courts, with respect for the rules relating to the protection of the coronary in order to protect public health. At the same time, however, these obstacles to the administration of justice should not reach the point of veto. We'll have to see more. Of course, as we have said, there is a need for consultation with the officials and people who are currently most involved in this process. The question of justice is mainly about citizens, not primarily about officials. It is also about the officials, but above all the citizens. And it is, beyond their right, and an obligation on the state to ensure these conditions. We consider it technically the way you are trying to solve it. Not that there are - and I spoke to people of justice - lawyers trying through the quantity to serve the need. But it's also depending on the case. I understand that as a non-legislative person, and I think that another case needs ten pages, but it needs fifty. The one that needs fifty, what are we gonna say? To be thirty, are we gonna make letters 0.6? So, how do we do it? There was a wise move at some point that there might be a summary at the beginning of the document. This, in my view, is a wise move. And it will have to be discussed how this will be upgraded, so that the summary of the three pages, which will be the image of the document, will then give the opportunity for the better processing by the judicial officer. And, of course, if the lawyer who composes it wants to be better aware of the case, he must, in my view, be brief and concise. So I do not think the technical way in which you go to solve this is right. Our rapporteur and I, as a non-legislator, presented them to me a simple thought on our part. Now, more I have taken the floor for an amendment which we tabled because, Minister, we as a Movement of Change from the beginning of pandemic, but also more generally because of the political philosophy from which we stand, have a role of a responsible opposition, which means that, apart from the control of the government, the crisis and the condemnation of politicians and opinions, we also come with proposals. And we have tabled proposals from the beginning of the pandemic on all issues relating to its treatment. I would say, in fact, that we tabled them very early before the government even dealt with the issue of pandemic, but also during it. These proposals concern issues relating to the health aspects and issues relating to the support of society, economic and social activities and in particular the weak, who always pay the'marble', the highest price. In the phase that we are in, we need to adapt both the vaccination plan and other priorities. It is, of course, the responsibility of other ministries. We say this, however, because, in fact, there is a need for continuous adaptation, depending on developments, but in the context of a more general planning where the rules must be defined and how policies are adapted. That means I have a plan. Not that you do not need to adapt them, but to adapt them based on certain constants that have to do with certain ways and methodologies. So here we come to this bill, but above all in the amendment, to say that we believe that a proper regulation should be made for the ADAF, that intervention should be completed. There is a need. And you brought the amendment. So I will start from what is mentioned in the first article and in paragraph, which deals with classified mail. It says, therefore, in the said subparagraph: ‘The correspondence is confidential and is kept in a specific file to which the President of the HR and another member of the HR have access, as well as members of its staff, who are specifically authorised to do so by the Plenary Assembly of the Authority’. There is a gap over one other member. Whose member and who defines it? There's a gap. The need for this member to be nominated will arise. Where is he going to be and who defines it? I would add that, after the words 'the President of the ADAE and another member of the ADA' and before the party', the words'member of the Plenary Assembly designated by it' should be added. Minister, this phrase must be added. The text of this provision cannot be unclear. One way is if you do not add it: make an explicit statement, write it in the Minutes, so that as a matter of interpretation it can pass. I shall close with Amendment No 804 and special 50, which we have tabled, which I have signed - the entire parliamentary group is tabling, but for brief reasons I have only signed it - which refers to the alternate members of the ADI. Why does ADAP have any peculiarities? Each independent authority shall have regular and alternate members. In most, but not all, and alternates have duties and full and exclusive employment. Where full and exclusive employment exists, it must of course resign from the public service for as long as the public service is located there. It makes sense. In the ADA, however, the alternate member shall not have any employment unless he or she is called upon once a year or six months to replace the member for whom he or she was appointed as an alternate. How will he live the rest of the year? So, indirectly you tell us that they should only be retired judiciaries and retired soldiers or even unemployed, have no jobs and go to the independent authorities. Oh, no. This issue has to be dealt with. It is very important for the character we want to give every single time and in relation to the principle. I would ask you to look at the issue - there has also been a debate with the President of this House in advance - because there has been one issue in this particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Let's go back to Volos, Mr. Athanasio Lippi of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill contains the provisions of the European Council Regulation 1939/2017, as well as regulations relating to Greek justice and legal order. The role of the EPPO is restructured and upgraded in order to make it more effective. The European Prosecutor is responsible for prosecuting economic crimes between Member States of the European Union, such as cross-border fraud and corruption. In particular, VAT frauds cost EUR 50 billion each year, as has already been said, in the Member States of the European Union, and over EUR 638 million is estimated for one year for other illegal activities. Today's bill clearly defines the qualifications that the Greek European Public Prosecutor must bring together, such as, for example, having the extent, at least, of the Prosecutor's Public Prosecutor, that there is no pending disciplinary action against him, that he has experience in financial research and in cooperation in criminal matters with European institutions and bodies. The Supreme Court of Civil and Criminal Justice is charged with selecting the three proposed candidates after an interview, while the appointment of the European Prosecutor is for six years with the possibility of extending for three more. Critical to the more efficient functioning of the European Public Prosecutor is its dual structure, with its central agency in the European Union and at the same time regional structures in the Member States. The decentralised services are managed by the European Authorised Prosecutors, who operate within the office of European Authorised Prosecutors set up in Athens as well. They are prosecutors who exercise their powers in relation to the European Public Prosecutor without losing their status, however. The selection of the European Chief Prosecutors is also made by a transparent procedure carried out by the Supreme Judicial Council, and high criteria are laid down. A condition is that they have a service of at least eight years to the first degree of jurisdiction and three years to the second grade. The local authority of the Authorised Prosecutors extends throughout the territory, and cooperates with all relevant Greek authorities, such as the Prosecutors of Economic Crime and the AACC. Overall, this new framework seeks to investigate cases of intra-European illegal trade with less bureaucracy in the communication of the Member States and the European Union, better results in the fight against crime and bringing the perpetrators to justice. The second part of the current bill contains provisions relating to the courts. A big issue concerning the legal world, but also all the citizens who are interested in it, is the time and way of reopening the courts throughout the territory. The suspension of the operation of the courts for a long time has caused a great financial blow to both lawyers and judges, while at the same time it has significantly increased the volume of pending cases that accumulate. It is clear that the search for the Ministry of Justice to resume the reopening of the courts. The legal world, Minister, awaits your amendment on the safe reopening of the courts, of course after the opinion and the experts. The current provision provides for the self-determination of urban cases that have been vaccinated by the pandemic without delays and performance. As has now been established, the new court is posted on the website or sent by e-mail to the parties. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the judiciary made by this bill, since the organic positions of both the virtues and the prosecutors of all levels are increased, along with the addition of the two hundred extra judicial officers to be recruited directly. This is because it is absolutely necessary for the courts of the country to respond to the increased volume of work that they are going to accept in the next period. The provision that has created reactions from the standpoint of counter-population is the one concerning the Council of State. The volume of each application submitted to the Council of State shall be limited. In particular, documents of legal aid and means, additional words and interventions should normally not exceed thirty pages, while the pleadings of twenty pages. If the number exceeds significantly, a proxy lawyer may be invited to limit the document within one month. The practice of setting a maximum number of pages in the introductory document is given to the General Court of the European Union, as well as to the Court of Human Rights, where, in fact, the case is rejected if it is exceeded. The purpose of the provision is to aim more at the substance of the case, avoiding unnecessary long-distances likely to be at the expense of the case. Of course, there is no question of an infringement of the rights of the party, since it will have thirty pages for the main document, thirty pages for the additional reasons and twenty pages for the plea. At the same time, the Ministry and the Minister, Mr. Tsiaras, are continuing with the rapid pace of digitization in the field of justice and many congratulations on what you have achieved, Minister. In the Council of State and regular courts may be prohibited from encroaching on documents and decisions in an attempt to intensify and consolidate the use of electronic means that facilitate and accelerate the administration of justice. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill takes an important step towards strengthening the key and independent role of justice both at European Union and national level. It is given that this government's choice to support Greek justice in both human and logistical infrastructures, so that the reopening of the courts is done on the best terms for all of us. In conclusion, I would like to thank you very much, Minister, for the creation of the new judiciary in Volos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u73	Be well, Mr. Lippi. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of a Real Estate Distribution Convention - Recommendation for the Right of the Right Area of Metropolitan Pole of Greek - Saint Cosmas and regulation of related issues". We will remain in the New Democracy and give the floor to Mr Ioannis Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Ljupi, who has made a very thorough presentation of the bill. Although he is not a legal person, he is a doctor, he has dealt with this very clearly. And, of course, it's not the legal profession, it's a doctor. But here in this House - I am a journalist, although we are entitled to talk at all times anyway - neither of us is a journalist nor a doctor or a lawyer. We are all politicians and we are all representatives of the Greek people to express it on all the issues that come to be discussed here. I am pleased that the government's headquarters are currently politically behind Kostas Tsiaras, Minister of Justice, and politician George Kotsiaras, the Deputy Minister of Justice. Especially in listening to Mr Kotsiras earlier, I felt a thrill, not only because he is my personal friend, but because he is an excellent new politician, above all with an ethos, which unfortunately is not very much missing from our society today. Mr Kotsisras presented, I believe, to be clear, why some measures must be taken in the middle of a pandemic, which is extremely unpleasant in all areas of our society, in order to protect the legal certainty as far as possible, in order not to abuse rights because of the pandemic and the fact that the courts are closed down. It's not easy. What we're living is unprecedented. It has never been done in history, not only the parliamentary but also the human history of the whole world. The last major threat to human life and humanity was the pandemic of 1918-1920, the so-called Spanish flu, which cost more people than both world wars together and then the means were poor. They didn't know exactly what was going on at the time when the pandemic happened. The first essential pandemic with technological instruments, with transport traffic, with great potential now available in our society is now happening. And within these possibilities, we have to stay locked up in our homes, so that we can keep our health and life ours and our fellow humans. This is an unprecedented scene, and it has never been done before, and hopefully it will never happen again in the future, but I don't know that. No one knows what can be done and what must be done. That is why I am saying - and I am very respectful of all the opposition parties - that the issue of pandemic and its management is not a matter of party exploitation. It's above all a matter of humanity. We must protect our society, our state, our state, our democracy and above all our lives. That is why we must all take a step backwards and say to this society that really suffers today that we see you in the eyes with humility, humility. We're tearing our heads down in front of the drama we're all going through, but we're going to deal with the problem. We'll beat him when the time comes. I hope very soon, after Easter, we all wish that things will be much better. I don't know. None of us know. None of us have a safe knowledge of what will happen and how we should manage it. That is why to say that this measure is wrong or that the problem is right, we still do not know that. We're going looking, because we don't have a previous experience. We don't know what happened last year. For all the other issues, you can tell your ideology, your political opinion, you can draw examples from history. You don't have anything like this here. It's unprecedented. And that's why of course mistakes are made, of course there are also recurring, of course people are suffering. We're all suffering. Don't think, I'd like it to be all open, to get tired of being like a priest, to be able to sit in a coffee and have a coffee and watch the world pass. Do you know how much I miss this and how much I miss it in my children that they can't go to college and sit in the house and supposedly do - why isn't it the same - tele-education? All of this has been lacking in everyone, and much more has been lacking in our fellow people, who are really trying hard because they are suffering, because they have closed down their operations. They have no income. They don't have the income they should have. They can't work. They can't magnify. They can't live like people. I understand that, and that is why I am stumbling my head with humility and humility towards the society that is suffering. And that's what we all have to do. There are no easy solutions, no easy options. The choices are difficult, but we will deal with them as best as possible. And, I repeat, there is no right and wrong. What's right and what's wrong? Not what suits us, but what suits the country and society more. That is why I would like to ask all people who are involved in the fight against pandemic to be even more modest and humble in the face of what is happening. I think some cases have escaped. Some appearances on television with an authoritarian style, that I own power and I own the knowledge, I think they're exaggerated and wrong. And I am referring to some managers from the state, the government side of the pandemic, but also to doctors, the entrepreneurs involved in the committee. You're not rock stars, you're not dives. You're doctors. I understand that the abrupt publicity of some has made them think they became Greece's favorites. You're not rock stars or dives. You're doctors who do a job. My personal view is - and it should have been, it should have been, badly imposed - that the whole Committee on Literature should represent it by a man, not fifteen, but not by a man. So now let us throw the tons, let us become more serious, more responsible and above all think humility and humility about the society that is suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. And we're entering the third circle of speakers with a natural presence. Let the Members who are waiting through Webex be careful. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nikolakopoulou, Member of the New Democracy from the Prefecture of Ilias. Mr. Papaliou will be followed by SYRIZA, then the Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, and then we will go to colleagues via Webex. Here you go, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. When we talk about a bill by the Ministry of Justice, it is always a question of whether the two main political objectives, which are the credibility, the confidence of the citizens in justice and the speed, the acceleration in its award, and this draft law, contributes to both these main political objectives, as well as contains a number of other key provisions. However, it is not only by legislating provisions that shield its institutional independence that strengthen the confidence of citizens in justice. Furthermore, we need a clear and clear political position of all the parties, a position that treats justice as independent and impartial. Because if we do not trust justice, first of all, we politicians, how do we demand that they have confidence in one of the main pillars of the democratic culture and a guarantor of its proper functioning? I will not go into the Papaggiopoulou case, which concerned the undermining of justice and which has already taken its place. But I shall refer to what has happened over the last few days on the grounds of the terrorist's invoked rights, condemned for eleven homicides, Kufontina. We have heard officials from Officer Opposition talking about violations of the law, in relation to his rights, protest by violating measures to deal with the pandemic, once again taking the risk, this time not only of worsening the health situation, but also of the extreme incidents that we have seen happening. We even heard them call on the government to retreat to Kufontina's demands. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard any of you ask Kufontina to abandon the hunger strike and turn to justice, to protect his invoked rights and to stay in it. In a favoured democratic state, anyone who is affected by his rights appeals to justice and if the law was violated, in his case, who should judge that? We politicians, journalists or independent justice? We have not heard any of you talking about recourse to justice. Because justice is the refuge for those who are affected, the restoration of the rights of the wrongdoers. However, instead of urging you to abandon the extremes of action and recourse to justice, you have once again been on the streets and trying to take advantage of people's fatigue from applying the restrictive measures to tackle the pandemic, you are adding to it a number of other factors to get out on the streets, causing over a hundred and fifty protests, such as your opposition to a bill, police violence, conquests at universities, Kufontina's rights, and you will certainly find more. This explains the strange intercourse now observed in the concentrations: coronary negatives and masks, supporters of Koufantina, anarchists, hooligans and together SYRIZA and his youth. You hypnotize anything that can cause division, make the streets young indignant and create situations of extreme violence, such as the murder cases that we saw in police officers. Because that is the environment that has brought you to power, and that is what you want to create, so that you have a chance to come back again. Ladies and gentlemen, what is certain is that pandemic has caused many problems in the functioning of the courts, issues relating to everyday life, the accumulation of cases with consequences of delaying the administration of justice, but also of shrinking the incomes of lawyers. But what should always be a priority is public health. I still remember those first days of pandemic, about a year ago, my fellow lawyers and my constituency and everywhere fighting for the risk of the virus being transmitted to the audiences of the courts. I am also referring to my constituency, because there a year ago we had the first dead. Public health is something that concerns all of us. It is the necessary good and we are called upon to preserve it. Therefore, reopening is something that we are interested in directly, but it must be done with caution and in line with the recommendations of the epidemiologists. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision of Article 20 of this draft law is undoubtedly one of the problems in the day-to-day functioning of the courts. The purpose of the orderly and orderly functioning of the Courts' secretaries and the avoidance of legal proceedings, in order to determine the void cases, which reduces the risk of concentration in the courts, as well as the costs of redefinition. There are many provisions in this draft law to which I could also refer. The big question, however, is to speed up the administration of justice. The speed shall be intertwined with the number of Judges. It was a constant demand for the legal world to increase the number of judges as a means of dismantling legal material. It is therefore in the right direction that the provision of Article 21, which provides for an increase in the organic positions of judiciary officials of political and criminal justice, is in the right direction. The future of justice is also involved in modernising, digitising it, which will have substantial results as well as speed. The provision of Article 27, which provides for the possibility of abolishing the written procedure in the Council of State and in the ordinary administrative courts, is a move towards the future. We want it to be implemented and extended to other courts. It paves the way for the digitisation of justice. I would also like to focus on two important articles in Chapter III. Initially, in Article 32, under the provision of which the operation of the detention shops is upgraded, the ownership of the detention stores is granted to the relevant Ministry. In addition, Article 35 reinforces the work of the Greek State to protect the rights of the child. The composition of the National Training, Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism for Action Plans for the Rights of the Child is made by a decision of the Minister. This composition comes with a view to contributing substantially to the safeguarding and safeguarding of the rights of children. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law upgrades and modernises justice. I'm sure not all problems are solved, I'm sure a lot has been done. There is still much to be done, and I am sure, Minister and Minister, that other bills will come that will help us in this direction, which will bring us closer to European reality, which will contribute to the credibility and speeding up the administration of justice. In these directions our Government has committed itself and it is time to take these steps that other countries in our European family have taken before us. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nicolakopoulou. We're staying in the Peloponnese, but we're going to SYRIZA to hear a little SYRIZA - and to Arkada, Mr. George Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current legislation of the Ministry of Justice is being discussed at a time when the courts are closed. The suspension of the Courts creates, among other things, a problem in the functioning of the rule of law, in the protection, defending and claiming of citizens' rights, but also in a problem of decent living - even survival - of lawyers who are conscientious in the administration of justice. The lawyers - and I do not say that as a syndicate, Mr Minister - have been left to their fate by your government that insists not to strengthen them. That is why your refusal, which has led us to tabling a relevant amendment on the payment of an emergency grant to lawyers to meet their daily living needs. Therefore, the reopening of the judiciary, the courts are absolutely essential for the sake of compliance with the rule of law, but also for financial reasons relating to its officials. I'll focus on three parts of the bill. The first: by regulating that documents before the Council of State may not exceed a certain number of pages, in our view - a shrinking, drastic, excessive and unjustified restriction of the right of the citizen to seek justice and exercise the rights in question in accordance with Article 20 of the Constitution. Of course, recourse to justice is subject to rules, but without them being able to define the content and manner of exercising the right of defence and support, essentially by oriented and limiting it. Of course, these restrictions are not linked, as you say, to the time when justice is awarded, the slowness of which will not be alleviated if there are no interventions both institutionally and in the logistics infrastructure and the staff of those who collaborate in its award. It is not a formal matter, it is essential. It is a matter of protecting citizens' rights and the principle of fair trial. At first glance, these restrictions concern the Council of State. However, it is estimated that this provision is a precursor - and I would say - both for their introduction or adoption for the other courts. By regulating the limitation of pages no problem is solved, limits are simply set on how to exercise the right to support rights and to defend citizens. In the event of overrun - referred to in the bill - the number of pages, the Secretariat, in cooperation with the President of the competent formation may request to adjust the extent. This means imposing restrictions on the development of legal and pragmatic arguments. If the lawyer fails to do so, the decision imposing a penalty, the amount of which may not exceed three times the judicial expenditure laid down for the purpose of drawing up the application. It is clear that in this case the fine will be passed on to the customer - a citizen, which creates inequality, since the financial prosperous will be able to respond to this obligation - financial sanction - unlike those who do not have this economic potential. Such arrangements are also added to the 30-minute cut arrangement for the duration of a legal act of each party to the Council of State. This is a mechanical typology, through which the existing forms of transport are translated into the European Court of Human Rights for the number of pages and speaking time. It is known that such arrangements do not exist in relatives to the Greek legal order, and the European Court of Human Rights has other standards and procedural rules. The reference to or connection by the Government and fellow Members of the New Democracy of such restrictions to electronic justice is unequivocally unequivocal to the substance. Electronic justice is not an end in itself. It is a method that incorporates and exploits new technologies and aims at the easier and faster administration of justice, always for the benefit of citizens and all justice officials. Therefore, Minister, this provision must be withdrawn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A second point concerns the positions of the Judges. Apart from the creation of new organic positions in the highest courts, there is a need to increase the positions of judges in the first instance and in the country's pacifist courts. There are many gaps, while in these courts there is a large number of cases that will increase geometrically when justice and the courts are working again. Of course, the increase in the number of judges must be accompanied by a corresponding increase in the number of judicial officers who, as you know, are too large. The third and final point concerns Article 32. This article passes the ownership of the property in which the penitentiary shops are housed, as well as the plots intended to build prisons - these belong to the FAO - to the Ministry of Civil Protection. This provision is the result of the government's philosophy of the nature of penitentiary, of penitentiary policy, which, in our view, is condemnable, since the only natural area of penitentiary policy is the Ministry of Justice and not the Ministry of Civil Protection. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] In this context, the bill provides that the management and revenue of the property of the penitentiary stores are to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Indeed, this is without a study of the financial consequences that this will bring to the FIFG and without the approval of its board of directors. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, legality is the last of your interest in your government, which is also seen in today's bill, but also in all the previous ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos has the floor. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 8 June 2017 20 Member States of the European Union reached a political agreement on the establishment of the new European Public Prosecutor within the framework of the so-called 'enhanced cooperation'. The Regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor was adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 12 October 2017 and entered into force on 20 November 2017. The European Prosecutor has been set up to theoretically constitute an independent and decentralised public prosecutor of the European Union with powers to investigate, prosecute and refer to the judiciary of crimes charged with the budget of the European Union, such as fraud, corruption or cross-border VAT fraud of more than EUR 10 million. The European Prosecutor will act as a single authority in all participating Member States, while combining European and national enforcement efforts. The reason for its recommendation is that the economic interests of the European Union are not protected sufficiently, while cross-border VAT fraud causes considerable losses in national budgets. As the European Union itself admits, its existing bodies cannot carry out criminal investigations or prosecute cases of fraud. In addition, in the European Union's crisis, the efforts of the national prosecution authorities are fragmentary and limited to the limits of the Member State in question, while the Member States do not always take the necessary steps to tackle the European Union's budget crimes. Today, only about 50% of the recommendations for the initiation of judicial proceedings, addressed by OLAF to the national prosecutors, lead to a reference to justice, while the reference rates vary considerably between Member States. Finally, the small number of prosecutions is accompanied by a low recovery rate of the amounts lost due to fraud. In particular, persons committing fraud against the European Union budget or creating complex schemes for committing VAT fraud with a loss of revenue for national budgets of at least EUR 50 billion know that they have a high potential to deal with the product of their crimes, because they are based on the lack of consistent law enforcement in the European Union. So it seems from everywhere that if the European Union and especially the Eurozone are not completed, it cannot function properly, as in the economy, where if it does not unite financially and banking alone, it will only be completely dissolved. It is a matter of time, as we would have said, unless all the countries give rise to Germany, to its elite industry, which always governs it. So it seems from everywhere that the European Union and especially the euro area will never work properly. After all, instead of the economies of the Member States constantly diverging, especially after the 2010 European debt crisis, and today even more, because of the pandemic. The creation of a European Prosecutor is now an action that we would be positive if the European Union were indeed in favour of the interests of the Member States of Europe, which is not the case, since it has become German, with Germany dominating everywhere. It is aimed at enslaving all the rest of the countries, the first victim of Greece, which is already under its economic occupation, and at creating its own empire. Furthermore, the movement of funds and funds is crucial, especially when our country is participating in the European Union, although in some way, unfortunately, it will be involved as poor Puerto Rico in the United States. But is it a solution for the European Public Prosecutor, a agency involved in the national legal system? On the other hand, the introduction of this Regulation hides many dangers, noting that there is no reliable system of reporting and measuring of cases of fraud that will provide information on the scale, nature and main causes of fraud. The European Chief Prosecutors will be officials of the European Prosecutors, will conduct investigations and prosecutors in the Member State in which they are located. How easy can it be to lay down the limits of the European Public Prosecutors' action in the Greek legal order, for example, on the rights of Greek citizens or on the protection of confidential documents and personal data? How effective can cooperation be between Member States when they have different criminal law systems, time-consuming legal assistance procedures, limited resources - much more Greece - and so on? Can the national authorities not decide to conduct investigations only on the part of the crime concerned at national level, without taking into account the potentially much wider impact of an international fraud case? In addition, will the EPPO start arresting people with its own police force? Is this something which is explicitly excluded, of course, or is it not for the moment? What will be the role of Germany that has already taken up all the important positions in the European Union? However, Article 16 provides for the possibility for European Authorised Prosecutors to order or request investigation measures, such as in closed or open spaces, in means of transport, in private homes, in personal property and so on, as well as any preservatives necessary to preserve the integrity of the evidence, to prevent their loss or distortion, etc. Furthermore, it is foreseen that European Authorised Prosecutors are entitled to request or order any other measures in the Member State - which are available to - or to - domestic prosecutors under national law in relevant national cases. And Article 17 provides that the Prosecutors of Economic Crime, the National Prosecutors, the National Transparency Authority, the Independent Authority of Public Incomes, ADP - which in Greece, I stress, is fully controlled by the Germans, while the Ministry of Finance does not even have access - and the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority of Criminal Income will provide the European Authorised Prosecutors with any information or information requested from them as well. In essence, therefore, this provision provides the European Delegated Prosecutors with a blank check to obtain any information, assistance and assistance from each institution and official, i.e. as a national prosecutor, but it is not! On the other hand, fraud cases involving European Union money more than EUR 10,000, serious economic crimes related to public works, investments and others, VAT cases, money laundering in which Germany has EUR 100 billion annually - Germany is the champion of money laundering - smuggling, as well as customs and tax fraud will be the responsibility of the new institution. Therefore, most cases will now be investigated by the European Prosecutor and not by the Greek Prosecutor. Everything we have said, which is, in fact, a sample of the bill, in our view, cannot be implemented properly, as we said before, if the European Union does not join politically. The fact that tax havens exist within it, such as in the Netherlands, Luxembourg, in Brussels or Ireland itself, leads to the conclusion that the laws of this kind will be enforced in due course or in weak countries, such as Greece. But is it possible for the European Union to ever join politically with Germany within it? In our view, no, it's not. It was therefore quite a mistake to create the monetary union, the Eurozone, where banking, budgetary and policy should have taken precedence, so that it could work properly. It would therefore be foolish to follow a next mistake, such as the procedure provided for in the current bill and which the rapporteur of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has detailedly analysed, along with his other issues. In conclusion, because many New Democracy MPs fail to understand the difference between the extreme neoliberalism applied by their Government and the social liberalism that we believe, the Greek Solution, as we have seen yesterday, focuses on: Their own policy promotes the creation of monopolies, the sale of all public enterprises, the auctioning of private property, the change of ownership status of the country, the state-owned parasitic native elites and a enlarged Final State, in accordance with the modernised rules of the old civilization of nationalism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Greek Solution, on the contrary, is in favour of the genuinely free market against monopolies, for privatization at fair prices, with the exception of socially beneficial and strategic enterprises, against the state-owned parasitic elite and a flexible small state, in accordance with the rules of social liberalism, the free market that gives equal opportunities to all people, while at the same time ensuring those who are unable to cope with it. The Greek Solution is against uncontrolled globalisation that allows the robbery raids of speculative capital, while promoting migratory flows so as to create competition between workers and constantly reduce their real wages. The Greek Solution has set as its top priority the return of the five hundred thousand new Greeks who were forced to leave abroad because the governments of the monuments - and not only - undoubted for their survival, knowing that in order for it to succeed, Greece must finally produce wealth, cease lending and consuming with loan, like the New Democracy that has broken every previous record of deficits and lending, as if there were no tomorrow, just like the period that ran the country in 2004-2009. Its only achievement, for which it is proud, is lending, when it produces beastly deficits, such as the EUR 24.1 billion in 2020 and will obviously produce corresponding deficits in 2021. If it is possible to be proud of it when it is borrowed! The Greek Solution has prepared for the success of all of the above a detailed five hundred-page program that is constantly updated, knowing very well that if Greece does not recover its economic independence, its national sovereignty cannot be restored. On the contrary, the New Democracy has locked the country for almost a year without any reason, destroying both the health of the Greeks with its failed measures and the economy, continuing to be begging Germans for new loans. They through the European Central Bank support our lending for exchanges that this time will have to do with our territorial and maritime sovereignty. Our differences are far more, but it is obviously not possible to say them all in the context of a speech. I note only that if our generation fails to solve the problems that it has caused in the country, assembling it among others for ninety years with the crime of the PSI, the risk that Greece might cease to exist as a nation is not a theoretical and not a small one. If anything, however, we owe it to our children, to whom we must at least inherit what we inherited. It's our obligation. After all, we need nothing more than work and real love for our country, wealth production, a change in our failed economic model based on the monoculture of cheap tourism and a proper balance sheet of the state which, as we have seen in the last two years, is literally a waste. It is also about garbage, unfortunately, our budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We are now going to the first circle of speakers via Webex. Mrs Giannakou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are discussing today, with the recommendation of the Ministry of Justice, the transposition of the European Council's Rules of Procedure 1939/2017 on... (It was not heard because of a bad connection from the European Prosecutors.) The question of the European Public Prosecutor has been discussed for twenty years at European Union level, but there have been serious disagreements between Member States. It was found that the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital in the European area after the Maastricht Treaty could create all the conditions so that natural or legal persons or criminal organisations could make frauds at the expense of the Community budget and value added tax. In the integrated European area, therefore, with joint activities and a number of institutions established for their effective operation, it was rather wise and necessary to establish the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor by means of enhanced cooperation between the Member States. For the well-being and effective implementation of this new institution, concrete actions are taken by the Member States and, in this case, by our country. When policies relating to the settlement of major issues are carried out through the European Union procedures...... (It has not been heard because of a poor connection), such as the Community budget, as I have said before, and the value added tax, it is certain that many cases of fraud and abuse will arise from natural or legal persons and may not manage them illegally and irregularly to benefit from the benefits of the European Union, but also to avoid the various charges. Having specific data available to us on the scale of the problem of cross-border fraud and its consequences for the European Union, the Member States and vis-à-vis the citizens of the Union, we understand how much it is necessary to create this instrument to deal with these phenomena, to combat them and to limit them, even to extinction. The Greek state immediately introduced the relevant regulation of the European Union into Greek reality. This bill with its structure and characteristics I believe is in a position to fulfil all the Union's requirements for the institution of the European Public Prosecutor and for its successful operation in a context that ensures close cooperation between the various levels and parts of the new institution. In an area where there has been a great deficit so far, there will now be a coordinated effort to eliminate phenomena which are affecting and attacking the interests of the European Union by working together between all the Member States and the European Union with the Member States to tackle and combat cross-border fraud in particular. The establishment of the European Public Prosecutor could state that it is part of the European Union, as it is the first time since the European Communities were set up to decide to grant sovereign rights, which is not about economic policy, but about justice. Naturally many may see the new institution reluctantly and with caution, resulting from the extent to which the powers of the new institution, as well as the sovereign right granted. However, the existing structures have shown that they cannot deal with cross-border fraud due to the complexity of the many.... (It was not heard because of a bad connection) and the many different legal orders within which the frauds are committed. At the same time, much of the cases are observed to be placed on............ (It was not heard because of a poor connection) and not to be examined because of their high demands and economics as to the need for resources and time to investigate them. In a significant number of cases, it is observed that Member States will only focus on the field of the national part of the problem and ignore the consequences that are caused for the Union. The new institution is therefore necessary if we want to eliminate cross-border fraud and we should all support it. The Greek European Public Prosecutor, the European Prosecutor and the Authorised Prosecutors will have a great deal of work to do in the investigation, in the exercise of the criminal prosecution, in referral to the court, in the performance of the case and, finally, in the use of national instruments to fight against national law. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that you approve the case of the European Public Prosecutor. I personally didn't talk about the rest. Perhaps from an old habit I do not wish to see the phrase 'other provisions' appear in the various bills. The main part of the bill is the creation of the European Public Prosecutor. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u83	Thank you too, my colleague. Now Mr. Lappas has had the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. To begin with, Madam President, I put a question which is mainly addressed to colleagues in the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. They are protesting why we are not discussing the basic body of the project, but the other provisions. As Mrs Giannakou said before, it is a good thing at some point that the bills have their main body and are limited to it. But when provisions are insulting, energizing, active, objecting to different layers of scientists or professionals, then do not blame those who because of the 'other provisions' are differentiated and protesting because you are not confined to the main body of the bill, ladies and gentlemen. And I don't want to speak on a personal level now. With Mr Tsiara, I am also friendly with the Minister of State I am pleased twice, firstly because he is young - I believe that youth is the engine of society and history of a country - and, secondly, he is a fellow lawyer and can very well understand the issues that are emerging and born by provisions which affect a very large body of scientists, such as lawyers. It's just a matter of that. Secondly, I heard colleagues from the New Democracy saying that in such a pandemic of a global nature, extent, etc. It's good that we're all a little assembled. In fact, Mr Loverdos said: 'With the head in the way of all of us taking a step back'. Is this possible only to be claimed by society and by various professional and social bodies and not to be claimed by the government itself, which in the pandemic brings bills in the sight of warfare and retraining? On top of that, the Prime Minister comes out to be proud of the fact that this House, in two years' time, passed a hundred and fifty, hundred and sixty bills in a pandemic, with a picture of the House which in any case does not honor the political body and system, nor parliamentaryism nor our democracy, with a parliament without a natural presence of lawyers, without coming to the committees with self-determination to present their views, without Parliament in general operating with a normality. At the same time, normality does not exist in any other area of social, economic and political life. It is, however, only privileged for the legislative body as if nothing were happening in pandemic on how to legislate. That's the second one. Thirdly, we have heard many words in favour of the institutions of justice. Indeed justice is the final good of a society, indeed it is the one that creates social cohesion, social peace. We lawyers say it is the summum bonus, final good on one side as far as its employees are concerned and on the other hand it is ultimum refugium, the last refuge for the weak and the unjust. That is justice, that is what we need to talk about, and that is what we need to trust. I have often told the Minister - he was alone for so long - that this justice, as I told you before, has been challenged by acts and omissions both of the Ministry and of the Government. It is inconceivable for me to believe, Minister and Minister, that a modern republic of the 21st century, society, democracy, the political system, can be tolerated that the third pillar of the awarding of criminal justice, which is the creation of penalties, is subject to a security ministry rather than to the Ministry of Justice. It is the creation of penalties involving prosecutors, lawyers, etc. One is that. I have told you since the first day, which has been done by a presidential decree rather than by the involvement of the Greek Parliament, that is to say, as if there were some kind of rigour of an authority that belongs elsewhere, and today we have the "appropriate" of this choice, the transfer of almost all of the assets of the FIFG, to which various players and representatives of public law are subject. This includes too many bodies and lawyers, in fact through legal revenues, and they are all transferred to the Ministry of Civil Protection. It is a big issue that you will always find in front of you. Thirdly, Mr Minister, on Article 23(6), to make it quick. Here, imagine that there is no justification for this provision. I heard the C.E.A.'s spokesman. It did not invoke any arguments justifying it. Because, you know, the only argument that could be made is that it is linked to the acceleration of justice. Are we serious? If the pages are not thirty and are thirty-five or forty-five, does that contribute to speeding up justice? Has justice been speeded up when the EUR 40 000 limit was introduced and, below that, no appeal is allowed either to appeal to the appeal or to annulment proceedings? Has it accelerated since the TBR's practice where the reason given to the lawyer of the parties, that is, the citizens, who, under the right of legal protection in the TBR, were not given the floor in support of the appeal for more than thirty minutes? What has contributed to speeding up justice? Nothing at all. The same happens now. As for the call for what is going on in the EDPS, I told the committee yesterday. The EDPS shall have on its website an article that violates a specific form of application and shall fill in the boxes in such a way as to be in the form of a questionnaire. That is why the document is very short. Is that equivalent to the Council of State to invoke the practice of the EDPS? Is that possible? Listen to the voice of the lawyers. There will be no difference in the procedure in the TBR if five pages are added or removed. What volume, what content the document will have, is only to do with the need for the citizen who appeals to the justice and knowledge of his proxy lawyer to develop as much as the way he thinks his document is and with his knowledge. No one else can limit him for any reason. I'm closing that, too. We are going to an issue that the new Secretary of State has dealt with just now, and that is why he has also addressed me. Indeed, I referred yesterday to the issue of the 'Home of the Child'. The "Home of the Child" I have to tell you, Mr. Tsiara and Mr. State Secretary, that it emerges from the provision made by both the new codes and by your own alteration in August 2019. It's Article 227 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In other words, the "Home of the Child" is mainly emerging as an obligation of the country because it has to introduce a criminal law. And who is she? It is one, the judiciary of the child in a way and in a time when neither his physical status nor his spiritual status are offended. And it will once again be considered - it means judicial examination - and it results in an obligation of our country under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations. Here open a parentheses. The UN, the Committee on the Rights of the Child and your Ministry, Minister, has intervened, and has asked you what is happening with the "Home of the Child" and has asked for explanations and comments on where it is and where it ends. The parentheses are closed. I say, therefore, that the House of the Child derives from a procedural obligation which we introduced as a text law in criminal proceedings. But, for the "Home of Child" Ministers, you received a ready-made institutional framework in which there were five houses - Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki, Larissa, Heraklion - ten scientists had been hired with the institution of mobility, brilliant scientists, psychologists, psychiatrists and teachers, brilliant! Today they are sitting in an office and doing nothing at all for two years. Some properties had been leased out of five - two I think or three - which were ready for delivery. From a governmental point of view, you didn't do anything. You set up a committee under Ms. Giadi and came up with a conclusion. What did he say? Can you tell us? What did he say? He told you how, in what way will you implement the "Home of the Child" in addition to the Child Protection Companies, which is their subject matter, their purpose and their management? We are talking about the "Home of the Child". So you set up a committee. You did not like the committee, you are coming now and you are making a programming contract with the EBRD. What is EBRD? I read in the program contract. They're close to laughing at me really as legal. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm mostly talking to you now as legal. What's he saying? That the EBRD is a public limited company active in social policy at the local government agencies. And the OTA will take over issues relating to the child's pedagogical, psychological and intellectual status with regard to measures to protect him, these criteria and the possibilities of the minor. But is that possible? Will you tell me that this is possible, as Mrs Michailidou said the other day, and that my hair was raised as a lawman who said what? That the children of spouses detained for illegal acts will deal with them and will be hosted by the police! What's wrong with you? Are you completely mad? You want to build a police state? In the police, the refugee police at first, the police, extradition of sentences, police management and dealing with the issues of minors, whose parents are detained on a number of issues. But are we out of your mind? To any question of political, sociological, social, the answer will be one, the police? Is that possible? You're a Ministry of Justice, and that's what you need to put a barrier on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u86	I shall close, Madam President, with only one phrase. The barrier and the potion to everything that the Ministry of Civil Protection is pressing must be seen by the Ministry of Justice, because we are talking about the institution of justice. I shall close, Madam President, with a proposal to the ministers. We need a redesign of the justice system, we need Greece for the 21st century to see what justice we want. By who? First from the bodies of the procedural community, judges, lawyers, legal schools and always keeping the rule of law like a bright torment. I'm closing with a phrase from Tom Bingham. This famous English judge said: "In a world divided by various nationalities and cultures, the rule of law, I am referring to it, is the most important factor in social cohesion, and it looks like worldly secular religion". Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Mr Constantinidis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the extent and importance of the problem to which the bill under discussion is being brought, in particular Chapters I and IV, referring to the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor is known. This is a relatively new European institution for dealing with crimes against the European Union's budget. Such crimes are quite complicated and are committed by the involvement of many perpetrators, and are extended to different countries and to different legal classes. Thus, their treatment to date has proved extremely difficult because of the different legal systems, time-consuming procedures, the lack of resources and the different priorities of the Member States. It is now up to the existing institutions of the European Union, namely OLAF, EUROJUST and EUROCOM, to add the new public prosecutor who comes to fill the gap. When it is estimated that around 50 billion of VAT is lost every year from national budgets in Europe because of this form of crime, it is obvious that the need to strengthen and complete the role of this institution, which is responsible for combating this phenomenon. In addition, this enhanced institution is expected to function forensically, since the circuits in the field will feel closer and more effective control as a result of the cooperation of the Chief European Prosecutors in the various countries, since these crimes usually have a supranational scope and action. Now, the draft law defines the powers and the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor, in the context of the national legal order and defines the qualifications of candidates for the post of European Public Prosecutor and European Prosecutors in Greece. This independent institution of the European Union will be responsible for investigation, prosecution and reference to economic, cross-border, crimes. The other provisions of the draft law ensure that European Authorised Prosecutors are provided with infrastructure, digital means and with the assistance of other authorities and services to carry out their duties. We will now move on to Chapter II, which deals with matters relating to the reopening of the courts, but also with other interventions in justice. The area of justice, ladies and gentlemen, has of course not remained unaffected by the restrictions imposed by the coronary. Relaunching the state as a whole, but in particular judicial service, is a very complex project and requires careful handling, since it involves fundamental rights of citizens. It is therefore a well-known attempt to ensure the provision of legal protection, not a narrow technical approach. The question of redefining the cases that have been cancelled, ensuring the... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection) I am just going to refer to the other provisions of the bill. Article 20 provides therefore that the definition of the cases which have been voided as a result of the pandemic is to be established. Article 24 restructures the positions of judges, political and criminal justice. Interventions to speed up the process are taking place in the Council of State. In particular, because there has been a lot of noise, however, this addition of the sixth paragraph to Article 23 of the bill, which introduces a provision on the scope of the procedural documents, I will only say that I admire and envy the dry and straightforward documents of every procedure, which emit exactly the confidence and certainty of their author, without unnecessary repetitions and shapes, to which, unfortunately, many lawyers are acceding. I think that regulation is more improper and does not impose an excessive burden on the parties' rights. However, the other arrangements for the compulsory electronic movement of documents submitted electronically in Article 23, but also in Article 24 of the next, which allows the plenary session of the Council of State to publish, through its chairman, a brief communication on the content of the decision taken and the possibility of bringing together rapporteurs in the cases referred to in Article 25 of the draft law, are, I think, also in the right direction. I shall also say the same about the arrangements in the following articles, on the use of computer technologies and on the reports provided for in Articles 28 and 29 for the tribunal of malicious actions and the Supreme Special Court respectively. Furthermore, the grant of the General Committee of the State Courts of Regular Administrative Courts, as well as the Administrative Courts, is obviously necessary and necessary to meet their needs. While under Article 31 the transfer of the court material from the Athens Administrative Court to the administrative appeals of the country also follows this choice of decentralisation, at administrative level, of differences in the acquisition and loss of Greek citizenship. In Chapter III, I do not understand the opposition to the granting of the ownership of detention stores by the Ministry of Justice to that of the Ministry of Civil Protection, which brings Article 32, which has no significant effect. Furthermore, any simplification of the procedures is welcome, so the one introduced by Article 33 concerning the registration and renewal of the registration of insurance intermediaries in their chambers’ registers. It makes this process a little easier. In addition, it is worth the clarification referred to in Article 34 on the right of the adult heir to renounce the inheritance. While Article 35 extends the participation of the Civil Society to the National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Child Rights Action Plans. Finally, Articles 40 to 46 introduce transitional arrangements. Let us just see the question of any related cases that fall within the competence of the Chief Prosecutors with others that do not fall within it. In conclusion, the draft law is not available for political or ideological conflicts. It introduces new institutions and resolves questions in the field of justice, which is why I recommend its vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Lykoulis from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, if we once again meet at a difficult crossroads in modern history, where famine, pandemic, poverty, earthquake, with homeless people in my country and near your homeland, and the oppression of the economy are the great demands and the great issues of our time. Who would really expect that? Unfortunately, with a recession of 8.2% of GDP for 2020, with a debt of 1.5 billion euros from the pandemic, moving for 2022, with 145 billion in taxes and funds, which we do not know how to pay truth and when, no one can talk about a prosperous environment, in which we can easily discuss justice, the simplification of procedures, the speeding up of justice, which is a permanent request for Greek data. Unfortunately, we are with our backs on the wall today and we are given the opportunity from the Step of the House to wish a quick recovery and to quickly come to us all our people, all the people of Greece who are and give the fight to the ICUs and their relatives next to them, right now, and hope that we do not get to the point of confirming the experts who say that they will be chosen so that these people can enter the beds of the ICU. This will be the failure of democracy, it will not be the failure of a government which already has a great deal of deficit in its handling on the big issue of pandemic. And the Movement of Change called them and said, Minister, that, unfortunately. You know, at least we don't match the opposition crowns. We are not the ones taking out the dunes and irresponsibly collecting people into demonstrations, nor are we the ones sending young people to keep the panoramic support of terrorists and murderers. However, we are the ones who have given you a package of measures since October and November and have been talking about the ordering of private and private health bodies in the battle against pandemic. You are still talking about it today and you are still thinking about it. So at the time that alternative means of support are being used, we wonder why there are no ICU beds? And let's leave it now, let's leave that story with the IF beds. It has begun to be revealed that the king seems naked and even his image is often very bad when it comes to people who are suffering and giving the battle for life. Only this call, from a humanitarian point of view, and not above all from a political point of view. So we are with the back wall, ladies and gentlemen, and Minister. We are also in an allergy policy, because it is not possible for the average wise man to understand, if he is usually invoked by the people who serve the law - I also want to believe the morality - when we invoke the intelligence of the average wise man, how do we say today that we do not have the sick and at the same time welcome the opening up of the market without having any serious study on this issue and how to open up who, when and how? Unfortunately, then, we have every reason to be pessimistic, Minister, about the course and evolution of things, which automatically moves from us to the rest of our citizens, but also to our own children, who live third-world situations and other times, just at the dawn of their lives. As far as today is concerned, look, and today - it is the pigeons that honor the first, I usually say - fall within the sphere of confidence built between a ministry and the citizens, and the politicians, and the wings, and the factions, and the parties and so on. What do I mean by that? We should normally say 'yes' when we have European regulations. When the system is democratised and modernised, who can say 'no'? But come on, we have the evil, what always admits to us, this strawberry 'and other provisions' that always enters next door, to pass through the windows, the legislations, the sloppies, and to legislate according to the beam, to give our rospheti and the "beamies" to take care of them. So this unscrupulous 'yes' is destroying it and then again let's start over. Greek justice with a more important point last year is also the one with the pandemic with the back wall. Fortunately, Minister, you have found the pace of justice working in the pandemic. And, unfortunately, the wholehearted legal clubs were not heard, the lawyers were not heard - I will say about them afterwards - it was not heard that the interruption of many and everyone, many times, of activities were not what they were serving citizens and the administration of justice, but that was where we could have smart measures from the outset. But when there is no consultation, Minister, they all come overnight and they come by neglecting the institutions, such as the plenary session of the lawyers. And you know that I respect your face and recognize the struggle you're doing at the Ministry, but you've bewildered us, Mr. Minister, several times with tops, I'll remember that on one night you passed the legal mark on the recognizing actions and even involved the payment of damages from the occupying forces. And you did not take this back, despite our requests, despite both my prefecture and the institutions and the network that has been set up throughout Greece. In any case, trust is taking the lead again. That is why industries of unknown value have passed everything at this time, as have lawyers. You know, I remember in May 2017, when the current Prime Minister, the then Chief of Police, met the « tie movement». Then he said that really many free professionals are treated in a way that is not suited to modern perceptions and that it should be reconstructed in its own policies. It was a statement made by the Prime Minister. Now, unfortunately, this « tie movement» has grown even further and it seems that the prime Prime Minister doesn't care how tight the knot is anymore. The tie now on the neck of people could well become an anchor for the political system itself and for your own government, because these things are not funny. It's like putting a match next to the bomb. Well, then, you'll know what the difference is when you get it, Minister. From the shame of the "scole hooligans", which one remembers and says that the mockery of entire disciplines of well-known scientific adequacy has exceeded every limit to making the work of the "menu" which you took back, but what to do when it was late for tears, we are now at a level that this professional sector cannot rely on as young lawyers and others are in a state of absolute disintegration, and that is what the Ministry of Justice should first see. Our calls are daily. They have been invaded by parliamentary control eight times to this day and I really think you should take a stand on this. As far as today's two remarks are concerned, I will only make it. Article 21 refers to the increase in the organic positions of political and criminal judiciary officers in the positions of the prosecutor who has brought them under number four, in fact in the reduction of justice! You really say that and you believe it. Look, Minister, because we are serving, we are ministering on the area of justice twenty-seven more consecutive years, what I have to say is that if harmoniously, on the basis of planning and integrated development guidelines for the administration of justice and not with emblematic arrangements that have absolutely nothing to give but fragmented failures, which you are again coming to take back. It is not just you, all the governments, because no one has any bare hands, those who serve the political system, and those who have ruled, I will say this by the end of my term of office, everyone has to apologise for various things or for omissions or for actions that have taken place. Therefore, if there is no complete planning by combining this with the judicial officers in the courts, what you bring as 'other provisions' cannot stand. I come to the great question of the extent of the documents before the EBRD. What can I say now? I do not want to comment on what has to do with 'the lesser' opinions. ...(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u91	My colleague, we're not listening to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u92	My last sentence is that it's not...(doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...expression, Minister. It's not limited. Many times you can give what you want on a page and sometimes...(it doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...it goes without saying. So you should be much more careful at this level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Madam President, I too will be in today's sitting listening to what is happening in the area of lawyers. For one year, in fact, the courts are closed. In addition to the problems faced by the legal world, there is no real legal protection for citizens. Lawyers, how rather young lawyers, young professionals are in a particularly difficult situation, especially those who are not involved with... (doesn't sound because of a bad connection). The majority in our country do not work in this way and the fee is usually paid...(it doesn't sound due to bad connection)... And because of the situation and the events in the field of justice, the Ministry of Justice is a mere observer. We're talking about a dramatic decrease in...(doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u95	Mr Colleague, you have no good signal and we are not listening to you. We will give the floor to Mr Ploris, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, and we will come back to you when you have a little better signal, because we hear nothing. Come on, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. It is important, before we enter the bill just a word, to show respect to colleagues, and today I am truly glad that the Members of Parliament are basically going to close the procedure, because many times there are Members waiting too long to speak and take a continuous holiday in the Chamber. We should slowly enter a process to respect the Member while speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a more general discussion before we come to the bill and to issues relating to the epidemic, but also to matters relating to justice in general. I would like to explain what has been said from the outset and there has been an interesting debate - Mr Kegeroglu and all those who have spoken - on the basis of what the Minister can have. In fact, my surprise was to the following factor, that the principle of popular legitimacy gives the very government. If we come to the debate what quality everyone has to have at the point where they are located, we are actually going to a falsifying type of democracy. Because, first of all, if we go to specialty, every minister should have his specialty. But then the conversation would open longer and say: And the bills are not? The laws, so who's gonna process them? They will be processed by someone who, at least, should be well aware of the legal issues, so have legal education. It's an unjust criticism. And it is unfair to criticise the honourable Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, because there is the clear example, that if anyone is an expert and is in the position, it can have the exact opposite effect. And the example is the President of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis, who, as an expert, was in the position of the Minister of Finance at that eight-month time and charged the country with some billion euros. Thousands of times at that time, there was a non-expert. In particular, we have to think of the fact that there is also an ideological debate here, because on the left there are those in favour of the people's courts. The great debate that has taken place is as follows: Can someone who judges the most important of the crimes they are in, who go to the mixed oath courts, not to be a judge? I have to tell you that I have always had a great deal of thought about the extent to which people can be tried. The Left, however, was the most protagonist and agreed to find people to give justice without knowing the laws, precisely because justice has its origin in the popular language itself. In particular, this Minister is a minister who seems to know the issues. Because the important thing is when you go to a place, not to go, possibly, with prejudice if you are involved, as often happens to other ministries. Imagine that if the Ministry of Health was always a doctor, a sensation would automatically be created. There wasn't always a doctor in the Department of Health. There was not always a man in the Ministry of Rural Development. I saw the KINAL Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Scandalides, who was Minister for this position. Well, in the first district of Athens, we have no special contact with rural reality. So we're gonna get out of this. It is judged in general policy that anyone in a position which serves a general policy. I'm coming to the bill now. I will not go into the part that we are all agreed on and which has to do with the main body of the bill. I shall refer to the two points which have been made. One point is generally what is going on with justice, and the other point is the famous Article 23 that we are discussing. Are we lawyers a branch that is particularly affected? Yeah, she's mostly hurt. Has there been help from the government? It has been within the framework for all self-employed and self-employed professionals. And it is not just what has been said, the one aid that has been given. In the first phase of the pandemic all the insurance and tax contributions went back, there was help from the outset in the part that if someone was employed, they could put them on par, there was help with the rental's possibilities throughout this first phase and within the country's financial capabilities there was an attempt to help the industry. Is the industry being affected more than other free professionals and self-employed? Yes, part of the industry is getting more affected. And what's that? It is the department that exercises the so-called militant law. Because a doctor in the crisis may have been hurt, an engineer may have been hurt, a tax agent does not know whether he has been hurt because there are actions that are moving, but a lawyer who fights the law and a year are closed or the courts are down, he is obviously more affected. Therefore, the charge of lawyers - to limit it - which is more affected by all other free professionals and self-employed workers, is obviously not those who are in paid employment or on fixed orders. They are affected and all of their colleagues are affected throughout the profession. Surely, however, the lawyer who makes a fighting law is in a more difficult situation. That is why efforts are also being made on the part of the Ministry in such a way that the scale between public health and the functioning of the courts is being opened up to public health so that justice can function. And I think that not the particular ministry - because it is not - but the Ministry, which is mainly concerned with finances, at the conclusion of this examination of the demands that are being made, will look specifically at this sector which has something to do with the militaristic law. But it is too unfair to say that the government of all these branches of free professionals and self-employed people, like the whole part of society, has not helped. The government actually became a quasi-payer - paid the rent for the houses and businesses - became a quasi-creditor with the repayable advances and became a quasi-corporate employer, because all those who enter the suspension pay them the Greek state, i.e. the Greek taxpayer. So the help was there. In particular, however, for the sectors that need to be helped above, through the discussions that are taking place, we will see what best potential there can be. I now come to a crucial part where there was the main criticism of the bill. I'm not gonna get into the track by transferring from the Justice Department to the Citizen's Department. This is a central option that we have made since the monitoring of these issues has been through. I'll come to Article 23. I can understand the criticism. I've heard both Mr. Xanthopoulou and Mrs. Giannakopoulou and Mr. Kalamatiano. But can I understand the criticism on what basis? Not on the basis of the lack of legal protection. This thing doesn't work. Mrs Adamopoulou said so. Why isn't he standing? Because someone can write any document they want. It's not limited. In fact, there is a penalty after the procedure has been completed. One could say that there is a problem with access if we said that this is the specific one and no document is accepted. Here it is combined with one thing that we have discussed at times if, when a procedure is finally completed, the one that has caused the whole procedure must be charged with similar costs. Why don't you deprive the other man of admission to trial. Anybody can go to the trial. However, will the person who loses and will be asked to pay the costs, should these be commensurate with the suffering caused by the system as a whole? So it's not on the basis of you're saying there's no access to justice. Access to justice exists, but it is judged on terms if and even if it is mentioned, there will be more pressure, and that is why there will be more to be paid. I could say that I don't like that as a perception. I would accept a criticism, therefore, not access to justice. I would accept a criticism that one would have said, 'although this is a little offensive to the judge we tell him, 'we're reducing the matter you read' or offensive to the lawyer?' But you cannot put it in no way as a failure to access justice. The Undersecretary told you so too. It is something that applies both to the European Court of Human Rights and to the European Court of Justice. I have to say I didn't know it, but it applies. So, it's a practice that exists. No one deprives access and I think there has been a more debate than it should have been. However, since we are talking about delays in the administration of justice and because, on the side of the delay, Mr Minister, is there not always the criticism which is often heard by the judges, that it is not very much the lawyers who are delaying the procedure either by postponing the procedure, or by whatever, I would like to see some information on the following: In a year when the courts were suspended, the decisions made by the judges were proportionately more than they had every year? That would be an interesting element. Let's see, then, the year when the courts didn't work, how many more decisions were finally taken in the courts. And that would be something that could help us. What could he help us with? If we see how this time has been properly exploited and decisions have been made, then all the talk of the quickest administration of justice opens up so that the judges can have more time to be able to make the decisions they make. If there is this, then, that they do not have a burden on other activities in order to be able to make these decisions. I think that the work done at the Ministry of Justice is a very important task for the party on digitalisation, which is going to go ahead and will actually relieve all those who are actors in justice from many waiting procedures that are in place, and with the paradoxes of what has been done and with the part that we are finally talking about. Finally, Minister, I say, because it has not been done by a Minister who has been legal for so many years, that criminal cases can be recorded. The cases arrive at the most critical point you play, you go to the Areo Ice, and, possibly, a man has a prison sentence and expects to be judged and you have decisions that cannot be read with the work of the scribes. I do not blame them, but the secretaries, in a vivid process, will write it down. And many times these requests have been made, which do not appear to be the case. This really is quality in justice, to have the whole living process, and this defendant, who has been sentenced first and foremost, can support to the second degree the Marios Ice. And these are really important initiatives that have been made quietly by this Minister and now the Deputy Minister, my friend, George Kotsira. It's quiet initiatives that are taking place. To conclude, Madam President, and in the part previously mentioned, I have heard the sensitivity that exists in all this part of the child we are discussing. I've often criticised, Mr. Xanthopoulou, as you know the SYRIZA Criminal Code. However, I have to say that in the part relating to minority, in addition to some of the problems that have arisen with the limitations, it has put age limits and increased protection at the lowest part of age limits. The middle part left it the way it was or reduced the piece of protection. But at least until twelve years, until that point came. And now they will also come initiatives from the Ministry that will be in this direction. It will be in the direction of even greater protection of minority, which is, of course, not just part of the Criminal Law, but it is also other sectors that have to do with the protection that the state must give. But, yes, there should be harmonisation even in part of the penalties and in part of the rationalisation of the limitations. There is even now the new Criminal Code. Lifting off the felony starts from adulthood, but unfortunately, it came out on the side of the defects and there is a problem, which, if any, will examine the Ministry. With these thoughts, then, we are voting on the bill, which is from the Ministry of Justice. We believe that this ministry and team in the Ministry as a whole within a year too difficult for justice has taken initiatives to ensure that justice works, because that was the major right now, so that rights cannot be lost, that citizens can always have access to the terms of the pandemic. We believe that, in the context of the crisis, initiatives have been taken specifically in the area of the better administration of justice. And from there on, any objections that exist in the part of the pages that have been developed today are objections that certainly sound to a legitimate objection, but to put them on the real dimension, the dimension, that is to say, whether a lawyer can do the work as he wishes, but not in any case that it is inappropriate to access our judicial system that is available and, in my view, all this draft law will help to improve the administration of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u98	May I, Madam President, have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u99	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u100	Given that Mr Varoufakis' face has been mentioned, you should finally stop reproducing a really gheebulous lie about the costs of Varoufakis. We've called on you too many times what information you specifically have to submit in the Minutes for this infamous cost. Mr Varoufakis has himself called upon you to set up a committee, since you are therefore calling it 'caramella' for this cost of Varoufakis. He's got no problem answering. It was not Mr Varoufakis' negotiating tactic that led to the memorials. He was the only one who resisted the third memorandum. Nor did Mr Varoufakis become a reduction in GDP. Contrary to your governance, we have a very deep recession. However, what you are doing and this rather affected you in relation to Mr Varoufakis is that he recently unraveled you in relation to the terrible fraud you are doing with the consent of ELSTAT to literally slap the GDP figures from 2010 until today, to reduce it, just to show that the discrepancy is much less and much less the recession. So stop replicating the lie. It's already degraded. Moreover - I address Mr Ploris - the fact that there are some failures in relation to the Minister's legislative choices is coupled with the lack of experience and the lack of training I have mentioned. Is the fact that we have a deep recession, as I mentioned, to blame the Minister of Finance, who is an economist? Is that what you mean? They are your failures, they are the wrong policies you have in relation to the bills you are tabling and which do not focus on the burning questions of justice and I would therefore ask you to revise your policy so that we do not make those statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u103	Here, Mr. Plori, you have the floor and we have to shut it down here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, criticism is political. In the first eight months of 2015, Mr. Varoufakis was Minister of Finance with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. Alexis Tsipras himself considered that he was not a good minister and changed him. I have brought it as an example politically, that the particular person who was the most specialised, possibly, has managed the country's finances in a manner not politically beneficial. And this is a criticism that will primarily follow SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras who chose Mr Varoufakis, but it is also a criticism of Mr Varoufakis. The consequences of this famous negotiation that eventually led to the next memorandum and led to the capital controls that came after the SYRIZA government had completed its mandate are the political legacy of a person, who was an expert, found himself in this particular position and, therefore, proves that it is not always good to put people in particular positions because they may have the fate of Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u105	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u106	Mr Colleague, you answer and we'll be done here because Mr. Ploris has given the answers he wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Varoufakis was judged by Mr. Tsipras, whom Mr. Tsipras judged by the entire Greek people and did not elect him again, while Mr. Varoufakis the people put him back in the House, because it is really the only voice that he has not conspired. What memorandum has Mr Varoufakis voted for? Let's get a little serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Ragus, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u109	When a government and a government majority are discussing the past and looking backwards, it is constantly, then it is obvious to the citizens that they do not have much to expect from it yet. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that I have been going to Step after Mr Mitsotakis' personal attack, for which I have not been given the floor on staff. This is a loose end that he created, putting in Parliament the issue of my oldest political statements about Mr Alexis Tsipras. I have to close this loose end. I have to answer Mr. Mitsotakis' personal assault. I am not going to suffice to say that we were political opponents at that time and that at that time the atmosphere between the PASOK of that time and SYRIZA was completely conflicting. I shall speak on the substance. I shall refer to some uncompromising, in my opinion, truths that the system of the sovereign temporary propaganda wants in every way to avoid harming the record of its chosen, Mr Mitsotakis. At that time, especially at a juncture that had culminated in the concern about the possibility of a break with the Eurozone, I did, in fact, exercise a very hard criticism against Alexis Tsipras and his then government. However, Mr Tsipras has deplored this political criticism and did not simply disprove it in the words. It has been disproved in practice, with historical political decisions completely nationalally beneficial. Alexis Tsipras as Prime Minister did not bail out, he did not give up his historic responsibilities, although neither himself nor his party, in other words, SYRIZA, had participated in the country's bankruptcy. He took the political cost, kept Greece in the European Union and the euro. It led the Greek people to the completion of the memorials and then to the exit from them, a historic moment in the summer of 2018. At the same time, in those hours, Mr. Mitsotakis, instead of silence, had the history of courage as a newly elected President to declare proud that as a MP he supported his party when it went bankrupt Greece. I may be on SYRIZA at the moment - a Progressive Alliance, but I am sitting on the same parliamentary seat that I was sitting on and when I was in PASOK. I have not changed politically and ideologically. I did not come down to a appointed Minister of the Right, a right that is the historic and political opponent of the progressive party and not the left that has been and remains an organic part of it. In reply to Mr Mitsotakis, I must point out that I joined the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance after the heavy defeat of the European elections of 2019 and if I am currently in Parliament's Chamber, I am exclusively in the vote of the citizens, without being appointed Minister by Mr Tsipras. However, since Mr Mitsotakis wanted us to open this debate, let us answer - if he can - and he can - the following four very specific questions, arising from undeniably historical events. First question. Who's a hypocrite, Mr. Mitsotakis? In other words, did you, Mr Mitsotakis who appointed them or his particular ministers from PASOK and changed ideological and political party and who have for decades been careering as international political opponents of the New Democracy? Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Who's a hypocrite? Mr. Samaras who threw down his father's elected government and then appointed him his Minister, or did Mr. Mitsotakis himself, who, in order to satisfy his personal ambitions, accepted to become Minister of Mr. Samaras, despite his harsh personal criticism? Third question. Who's a hypocrite? Constantine Mitsotakis' father when he was most critical of Constantine Karamanlis in 1977 and then joined the New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis or Constantine Karamanlis who received him in New Democracy with the arms open in 1978? I will submit to the minutes, for the historical interest of the subject, some publications from the newspaper 'THE VIMA', dated 13 October 1977, 18 October 1977, 1 October 1977 and 11 November 1977. Only in one of them - you can get them from the Minutes - the answer I have to give to Mr Mitsotakis was as follows: His father then said: "The dilemma is not Karamanlis or chaos, because Karamanlis means chaos". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourthly - and perhaps the most serious of all - question. I personally, in order to be on the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, nor did I break up the party to which I belonged - I was expelled from it - nor did I throw any of the people elected government guided by ex-institutional centres and the foreign factor. His father did this in 1965 and he was then appointed Minister of the Nova donor government, a dramatic development, which eventually led to the devastation of democracy and the junta of the colonists. Indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, who has made a political career solely thanks to his surname, does he remember how the 'Metsotakis' was recorded in the consciences of the citizens for those dramatic events? As the synonym of the ‘supposor’ or as the synonym of the ‘apostate’? Personally, I answered Mr Mitsotakis' question. I do not know whether he will do something similar and answer these four questions. Ladies and gentlemen, with reference now to this bill - and I had to devote these minutes to staff, because as I explained at the outset, I was not told about staff that day - I would say: I think, Mr Chiara, Minister of Justice, that it has become clear from all the positions of Members, the Vice-President, at least, that there is obviously this general recommendation and the initiative to establish the European Public Prosecutor's institution, on the one hand. On the other hand, you have introduced a series of provisions that are irrelevant in itself to the issue of the bill, which indeed someone who comes to this debate without being a lawyer and who has not been intensively involved in the issues of the Ministry of Justice finds the basis for the counterpart, who has developed. First of all, do you not think there is an issue, especially for a government that comes to things in the name of excellence, to come with a suggestion, according to which you are actually avoiding putting - and indeed for this particular institution - an essential qualification for the excellent knowledge of English? Or on Article 23 can one think rationally and say - particularly if I may imagine the judges of the Council of State - let us see, indeed, whether a restriction should be introduced? But can such a regulation be introduced into Parliament, without consultation or without the opinion of the main protagonists and factors of a trial and what we call judicial life within the Council of State? The questions which are raised and reintroduced cannot be answered. Why would you answer? Obviously, they told you that the volume of written texts accompanying each case should be reduced in the Council of State. But that's how it works? That is how it can be done, or can it legislate the Greek Parliament and indeed be regarded as a good piece of legislation? Also, for Rule 32 and more generally for this matter about the transfer of the General Secretariat of Crime Policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection, first of all, let me tell you, Mr Tsiara, that from what I understand, you have seen and heard so much about Mrs Nicholas, her life and her state in this position, the complaints made against her for all these unacceptable direct award procedures, which I imagine you have a tendency to prosecute everything that is linked to you in this regard. But, apart from the major problem in the case of Mrs Nicholas herself, Mr Chiara, there is another issue perhaps more serious, institutionally much more serious, for the Greek state. Do you think it is right in the year 2021 when you see that no one agrees with this policy you have decided to do, that is to get the General Secretariat of Crime Policy out of the Ministry of Justice, to implement it? And it is clear that once things change - whenever things change - this will be abolished, this policy will be abolished. There is no way to happen and when SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, a progressive government, any other party to remain in the Ministry of Civil Protection this General Secretariat will return to the Ministry of Justice. So is this 'wrapping' democratically responsible, especially for such a structural decision? We, anyway, judge your policy in the penitentiary system and criticise it and criticize it if it even came from the Ministry of Justice. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about the structural part. Because here we are now, 'a bad 10' is about to come'. You made that decision. Then we remembered - when now? - after a year and a half that there is all this volume of real estate to be transferred to the Ministry. Things will change when elections are held, in one or two years when elections are held. But what happens now? Is this Greece of 2021? Is this a serious function? I'm talking structurally now. I'm not talking politically. Politics, as many policies as you want. You will be judged and criticised by the Greek people and those who want to welcome you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u110	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u111	Yes, of course you will. The only thing is that, regardless of the answer, what remains is that a government that has come as a social minority thanks to the electoral law - not only your own, and the previous ones, you have got 39% and something - goes on to a structural change with the whole political world saying no to it and yet move on to this 'track-down' that I said before. And I will only finish with one mention, because yesterday Mr Georgiadis came up in this case with regard to the baptism and participation of the six. Obviously, it is not a case to which one would pay attention if it were just a citizen and others, but here it is once again on the surface of the government itself that a violation of the rules which the government demands - and indeed a penalty of fines - has been imposed on the citizens to apply for the treatment of pandemic. So, Mr. Georgiadis spoke of everything. He lied, inaccurate, he said, half truths he said, slandered and more. Answering a critical and decisive question he did not give. And Mr Chiara, because you are a representative of the government here today, if necessary, give you the answer if you have it. On the basis of what legislative provision, on the basis of which legislative provision was issued this special leave for exceptional reasons, which Mr Georgiadis used as a godfather with the family, obviously the mystery of the baptism of this particular child? Not only did it not respond to the fact that there is a specific legislative provision allowing such a licence to be issued, but it thought that it could be hidden through the wisdom that it is not the only one, that another ten have come out. So, ten times as much for Mr Chardalis, if without a specific legislative provision, the government and this good that has to do with the performance of mysteries, such as the mysteries of baptism, has turned into a tool, an opportunity for the exercise of customer policies, for the granting of rospherics to their own besties and licence friends - excellent permits - to make baptisms. Is it possible for this message to be a positive message to the citizens? Is this possible to be positively received by the citizens, especially when they are called upon to discipline themselves in the measures imposed by the government? Obviously not. That's all and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Did you ask me to speak, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u113	Yes, Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u114	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu is a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u115	Madam President, I would just like one minute on the occasion of what Mr Ragus said. And, of course, I will not deal with what he said for seven minutes about the need to apologise for his political regression, but with certain points of it and for restoring the truth. I have not noticed who he accused of being appointed or appointed. However, I would like to remind you that he was not a appointed minister alone of the government of Papandreou and Papademos, but also of the government that was up to the election by the day of the elections. He was also a member of parliament twice, not elected as a Member of the PASOK. The restoration of the truth therefore disproves what he said before. And because he presented a true statement by the late man of Constantine Mitsotakis about Karamanlis - before Mitsotakis joined Karamanlis, did he really blame the chaos and dilemmas that Karamanlis put on - does he not think that he did exactly the same? What he said to Tsipras also Mitsotakis at Karamanlis and then joined the parties that were accused. Same and unchangeable to Constantine Mitsotakis fifty three years later. The modern renegade has copied the traditional renegade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u117	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u118	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u119	I just want to say that Mr Kegeroglu has not heard what I said, because everything he said has nothing to do with what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u121	By the time Mr Pafilis comes, I will simply say that the amendment tabled by the Change Movement is accepted, by Mr Kegeroglu, with the addition, however, of some legislative improvements and, of course, I am presenting to this House and the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u122	Minister, you're a hammer, you didn't let me give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u123	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u124	Okay. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u125	Is there a proverb - how do we call it? - a popular saying, "I want to sanctify, but I'm not left by the devils." And I mean the previous debate as a whole. We never get into these, because if we get into the issue of the movement of MPs and other parties, we're gonna need a detective investigation, because sometimes you don't know who he is. What's the point, though? Why are these transcripts so easy? Because there is the common strategy, beyond individual ambitions. This is the essence, that there is the common strategy here, and we ask and ask whether we are telling the truth or not: are you all with the European Union, but with the JRC? You are! Are you all with NATO and imperialism? You are! Do you support capitalism, yes or no? You support him as the fairest system that sends people, the wealthy one, the poverty, the misery and the pockets of the few. Therefore, internal movements are translated within - to say it on football terms - large groups and annexes, subsidiaries. So stop this whole story. We are not interested in that, and we have principles in it. We are interested in political controversy. And to say now - there is no one from Mera25 - it's not about a profession or a person. Of course, people have a responsibility, but the responsibility of being part of a particular party. The point is to fight the overall government policy, because every minister can put his seal on it, but he does not apply his head stuff, he applies a certain strategy. And in our opinion, as far as what has emerged from time to time is concerned, you have had it, New Democracy and PASOK, and SYRIZA - 'to resign!' And if he resigns, the next one will come and make the same policy. It's disorientative, that's our opinion. Now, because there has been a debate, we do not need to talk about the tragic and dramatic situation in relation to the development of the pandemic. The government's responsibilities - and whatever it says - are criminal for its management. We told you that the Secretary-General of our party, Dimitris Koutsoubas, 15 days ago - I think - tabled some proposals and I would say that in a dramatic way he said "do them now, before it is too late!" In the deaf door - what do we say, Mr. Chiara, where are we also peasants? - As much as you want, scum! The government nothing! Now it's late. What we are telling you now: Immediately, here and now, the private health sector's order to find beds! People die because they can't enter the ITH on your own responsibility! Why don't you attack the private sector with two hundred, three hundred beds, how many? Why don't you hire medical staff so we can get out of here at the last minute? Why don't you support - we have proposed - the public health system with direct recruitment of all the doctors who have applied for it? Why don't you do all this? Why? Why, really, while studies on workplaces - we have caused you a hundred times - you are not telling us as government a year how many tests you have done in the workplace? The "Roboko" of Chrysochide and the government go and cut tracosars. Did they go to any major industry? Tie up: One hundred and eighty patients right now from the supermarkets. Did anyone go to check? Tell us, have you done any checks? Oh, no. Secondly, public transport. Why, really, don't you push the metro to thicken the routes? Why, really, have you not accepted the proposal of the owners of tourist buses to check, pay the dividends, pay the costs, to dilute the routes to Athens? These are the great sources. Instead of doing all this, then, attack the protesting people. Why is the people protesting? Why don't you do what health and everyone demands. And lately, top scientists, who have nothing to do with our party, have come out and said that your whole strategy was wrong. Why don't you listen to them? Why is people dying, getting sick and following your hawaii? Why? Because the issue of health is considered to be a cost, because you do not want to harm the unsatisfactory profits of private clinics and others who have gone to the heights. Why don't you run a free test on everyone? Why? To get the other guy to pay at the various private centers. This policy is murderous. And can I tell you one more thing? Instead of bragging that everything's going well, put your head down a little bit and do some self-criticism. Why? Let's see what you're talking about. You are making an immoral political attack even on those you called "heroes", because they react because they are mobilized. You go and load up - I'll tell you later - in the demonstrations of the pandemic. In fact, you are making an immoral political attack, on the other hand, because you know very well, Mr Chiara, that big mobilisations and a vast majority of demonstrators, fifteen thousand and a thousand, are from the trade unions, they are from mass bodies, they are from the health institutions who are trying to keep to the fullest possible extent - I am not saying that they can control all - health rules, they are from the student associations. And you, without shame in the pandemic that children have been salvaged, where students are no longer students, since it is a year outside universities, instead of taking steps to open schools, etc., brought in a bill - "father" with which you fly thirty thousand children of working folk families outside the universities with a triple measure, which I do not want to repeat. That's what they're asking! And instead of listening, attack and charge SYRIZA the mobilizations. Well, are you kidding us? Are you idiots? Well, don't you see? Doesn't it give you a report? Is there any link between the demonstrations of the mass movement, which are tens of thousands, with a thousand, five hundred people who were protesting for the specific case of Kufontina? Why do you'smack 'em? Why do you give SYRIZA a medal that he doesn't have? If SYRIZA has a boy, let's have a meeting tomorrow! "Three and the cuckoo" will go! But you are doing so to strengthen the 'double', because you want an opponent not dead in public, as you say, but uploaded, to strengthen after the dilemma, even when you go to elections, but also to slander a people who have exceeded the limits of patience. You don't know them? Where do you live? The world's on dead ends! He's got a year locked in while he's financially and psychologically broken. Imagine a family in the home with televised two children going to school, not to mention one at university, and with a mother or father working with teleworking. Do you realize what your policy is? And now you come out and put SYRIZA as did Mr. Mitsotakis. Why did he choose Tsipras? Because he is a convenient opponent, he is fine, and so is the 'double'. Of course, you have the 'exploitations'. There is no one here from KINAL to tell us, just like Ms Giannakopoulou, like the Greek Solution, who capture "stage" from here and the other from there for future political developments. Because that's it, that's the point. What did the government do this time? But, to your God, we tell you this: the government has thrown Greece into a mandatory lockdown. I will not comment on whether it should be done anyway, because there are too many opinions. But not only did she not lockdown itself, but it also brought a "organization" of bills that break the people. And you come and tell him "I'll break you", "I'll bring you laws that are unpopular" and you don't have the right to talk. Hey, no! That's political prosperousness! You cannot bring bills that change people's lives to the worst - and that is not what we say -, for example, about education, in which the whole education community is opposed, not the communists, and you can tell them that you have no right to protest. Really? Who's to blame for that? What do you want to impose? What kind of politics was that? We told you, we made suggestions to pass some laws relating to the pandemic, etc. No, "with fire and iron" and anyone who opposes it has the "clops", "kevlar", what they call them. Isn't that what they're called, Mr. Plearis? You know it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u126	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u127	Yeah, you know it. So, that's how it's going to happen, that's not how it's going to go. Take the hampari that the world has crossed its limits and stop particularly slandering the youth, but also the others. But, well, tell us what students are asking for? To be students. That's what they're asking! A year and the new batch outside the universities. What doctors are going out tomorrow when they don't go anywhere, what chemicals, what can't even do a lab? You say that there are no "leaf trees" while you have been offered proposals to open the universities with specific rooms, with precautions and so on. What do you say? No, there are no ‘leaf trees’. Yeah, but billions for the business groups, there are for the channels! I'm telling you to listen to the Greek people, I'm not telling you. Is it possible to have a pandemic, war, as you say, and pay 20 million euros, 5 euros, then 10, have I lost the account to advertise the protection measures? Are we serious? So they're gonna do what? To trade in human life! That's your system and stop it! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, give me the time of my denunciation and I will not speak again. We, in addition to all the rest that we can discuss, make a concrete proposal to you: now apply these measures and leave the foolishness. Well, what a humiliation it is to get scientists out, not to say names now, and say - listen! - that the metro mask, which is like "sardes" on each other, protects, but in the demonstration, which is in an outdoor space and is observed and health measures, the virus is transmitted. And I'm talking about protests that we have a responsibility and that we keep. What are you talking about in the world? Does anyone believe you anymore? Oh, no! And why all this? Because you think, and so it is, that health is a cost. And since everything's costing, so we can't afford it, but we're giving it elsewhere. We cannot find rooms, while there are hundreds, something Mr Theodorikos said. And that's why you don't want to take teachers. You pay billions in business groups and you do not pay for the life and education of the people. Of course, here, to be clear, there is no question - how did he say so? - political "moratorium", because SYRIZA, whom you take off the surface and give him some medals, said in the first phase that we'll be counted later. Now he's talking about a political moratorium. Well, what kind of a moratorium are you asking? Are you all right? Starting from young people, from students and students who have literally "saltar" with all this situation, what do you want to see a moratoriom? What'moratorium' do you want from workers living with 300 and 400 euros? There cannot be such a moratorium. It's your responsibility! And now I come to the bill. You know, it looks like everyone's conspiracy to the European Public Prosecutor. All parties here welcome, except the JRC. We are radically opposed and I will explain why. What is the European Public Prosecutor and where he is part of it? It is in the European Union's reactionary framework called 'the area of freedom' - what a beautiful place! -'security and justice', which the European Union ensures for citizens. Nice title, huh? The question is 'for whom?' Who are we talking about? For workers or for capitalists and European and other monopolies? We tell the world to think about the meaning of these 'good' words that they say to the peoples of the European Union and especially to us. Let's see, then, what security was there when the economic crisis broke out? Security was there for the banks, for the monopolies that didn't pay anything! For the workers, kick! They took back most of those who had conquered with blood and struggles. Is it true or not? What does'security' mean, really? Is crime just an element? Doesn't it mean safety at work? Doesn't it mean health insurance? Doesn't it mean security in education? What does the European Union guarantee for all these years? Scan all conquests! Freedom! What freedom, really? Are we talking about freedom, which was imposed on the memoranda and which required the capital, which came overnight and reduced the incomes of the workers who have disappeared from the reserves of the insurance funds? This was a full coercion. What was freedom? Freedom was in business groups to do whatever they want and implement the anti-virtual policy that all governments - all, I do not want to say names, but they are specific, PASOK, PASOK with New Democracy, a mixture of SYRIZA - ANEL and today New Democracy - imposed on the world. What does justice really mean in your system? Can we talk about justice when 95% of taxation is paid by employees and other workers and those who have about 60% of GDP - can do more - can they contribute 5%? What are you talking about? What justice are we talking about? I'm starting with them. Don't take it to legal or legal. I'll say about them. So what is the European Union doing now - and not just now -? I've had the luck and the misfortune to be there for five years. Behind these declarations, it builds up a fence, a spider net, an institutional framework to defend and ensure the interests of those who plunge wealth and build such a way as to break any popular reaction, as the reports say, that the opponent is popular mobilisation. What's the D.A.? You who pretend to be the defenders of the nation, the country, etc., how do you accept it, really? The prosecutor, the European Prosecutor and the other prosecutors, are from the European Union itself, with the aim of allegedly hitting corruption and everything else. Okay, now you're kidding us? So, the European Public Prosecutor will sit on the stool? Tell us about it! The biggest scandals have been made by the largest European and other monopolies and are inherent in the system itself. Is that gonna hit? Oh, no. It may be in individual contradictions, etc., to catch them. We do not say that these are not real. But that's not how they're treated. And we don't call it theoretically, life itself has proved it. Now, then, the debate has been opened and the debate has been extended. Where should it be extended? It should be extended to the field of terrorism. By the way, I'll say something. You swear in the name of the European Court of Justice. There is a judgment of the European Court of Justice from an action brought by Portugal and Italy. What was the appeal? To be effective and not to be undone by the night shift to women and especially those who have children. What is the decision of the European Court of Justice? Listen: For parity reasons women should also work at night. That's what he's defending. Now if there's any decision that's even better, that's a drop in the ocean. SYRIZA took the lead. To do this, they went to second because they have unanimity. There was no consensus and they went to the proponents - I will say that - that is, enhanced cooperation. Who was the first to incorporate it? The SYRIZA - ANEL government has prompted it to incorporate it into national legislation, and now of course New Democracy is continuing. Now, as we say about them, what is 'rotification' and 'terrorism' for the European Union? It finances a programme that says - I will say an example, I will not say for the rest - 'Who are they, the supporters? Their view of society implies a commitment to equality and distribution of income.’ That's for terrorism. He's talking about the leftists, he's not talking about communists. I continue by saying "They reject underlying capitalist values which are considered the main cause of social inequality". What do you think? Shouldn't we even think? So, whoever's with capitalism is not a terrorist, and whoever's struggling to change it is a terrorist. That's what he says. In addition, it opposes the increasing privatization of education, health and transport and in international free trade agreements. So tell us what these are. That's what the D.A. will start, that is, "What are you?", "What do you say?". You say "no" to water privatisation, because it is socially good, "no" to health privatisation, etc., so you are a terrorist and therefore the prosecutor has the right - and you will find it in front of you, even though the choice is conscious - to write to you in his old shoes and ministers and the judicial authorities of the country and will do what he wants. That's the system you're building up. I don't want to say any more. Our rapporteur has said it, and indeed perfectly. We are not congratulating each other, because we have now become as Harry Clinn said, that his mother-in-law, his wife and his brothers, applauded him. This is where the New Democracy MPs come out and congratulate the Minister, others go out and congratulate the Parliamentary Representative and so on. We are simply saying with one word - in order not to abuse the time, I am just in twenty-one minutes - that the arrangements you make on other issues have a strategy and the strategy is accurate justice and support for very large legal offices. As far as I am concerned, Mr Plovés - I will only reply to that - the issue of the 30 pages and the other 10 pages is a monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u128	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u129	There's something for you. If I have money, I'll write eighty and pay $4,500 fine. Who else dares write eighty to pay 4,500 euros? So who helps? The one he has or the one he doesn't have? Because it's not right what you said. Either you lose or you win, you pay for it. You made a sauce and said "If you lose, you will pay for it". Oh, no. Either you lose or you win, you pay for it. So who will go to the Council of State? That's a classic policy. As for lawyers, what you do with the 400 euros is ridiculous. I mean, we're talking about their money. You were supposed to give them help. Secondly, with this, you have strengthened the large legal offices and left the whole world hanging. Mr Chiara - and I say this, it is not only your issue, but also the Ministry of Health - that from the measures which all workers in the field of justice, judicial officers, etc., you have done nothing. We're talking about disinfections, mass tests, everything! Our rapporteur mentioned them. Needless to say, not only are we voting against it, but we are striving to see what is being built on both the prosecutor and the prosecutors, although they are not very interested in the world, firstly because they do not understand what the future is. If you think that you will put iron nets together with the European Union over the people, you will know that the world has a laundry to cut it off! And he's gonna cut it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. And this is where the speaker's circle was completed, so the Minister has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice which we adopt in Greek law the application of the provisions of the European Regulation of 1939 2017 is complete. In this way, we are actually taking a very important step in the part of European cooperation on very specific issues relating to the European Public Prosecutor. This debate is, of course, taking place in this generally unpleasant climate of pandemic intensity, which I think all of us are concerned with a small or large degree. After all, almost all of the colleagues who were earlier in Step or who had the opportunity to intervene via teleconferencing, via Webex, said that the treaty in which we live is difficult, of course, making a specific criticism of issues or issues relating to government policy. But what is the truth? What's the reality? I think that even today we are talking about, when we really have a pandemic peak, on the basis of at least yesterday's figures relating to the number of cases and the number of deaths, Greece is still one of the countries with the best deal on this issue. I do not think that there is any question at all. There is an ongoing contradiction in this attempt to articulate political arguments or political reasons and it is something I cannot leave without commenting on. On the one hand, almost all of the anti-population parties are rescinding the government because almost every operation has been closed with the so-called lockdown. On the other hand, at the same time, she is abdicating her because she did not open up earlier procedures or because she did not do things that might cost people's economy or psychology. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the answer is one. I have repeated my position many times and of course recently through the meetings of the committee responsible until we arrive in plenary to discuss this draft law. I do not think that any of us in this Chamber can think of having anything more worthy than human life. And we have to stay in this. The effort being made is focused on not mourning victims, not seeing phenomena or possibly events such as those that have lived and experienced many European societies. Have we really seen what has happened to our very neighbours of the Mediterranean since the last March pandemic started to date? The comparison of numbers is not the picture of the day, and we need to understand that. For there was a colleague of the Officerial Representation who came to tell us "Look at what is happening today and yesterday in Greece in relation to other European countries". Did he really compare the same numbers as the previous days, the previous weeks, the previous months? I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. If we all believe - because I believe that it is a common attitude - that human life and public health must be safeguarded in every way, yet so necessary is the Treaty of avoiding populism and avoiding rhetoric which in principle creates a contradiction that, to a large extent, does not only give rise to the right impression in Greek society and Greek citizens, but once again puts the political system in a position absolutely judged and in a position that demonstrates that it does not respond to its role and purpose. The moratorium that we heard recently would obviously be worthwhile if there were no prior declaration on risk take-overs and if there were no invitations to take part in rallys. We must all understand where our serious position is. And it is not possible every time to play with the intelligence of Greek society and Greek citizens. I repeat. If the political system should send out a firm message in every direction, it would be that of seriousness and agreement that, in order to avoid the major consequences of pandemic, we might avoid the consequences which were and are painful for all of us, we should at least have agreed on the essential issues in which the Greek state is operating. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, as I told you earlier, in addition to bringing the provisions of this Regulation into force, gives us the opportunity to organise the European Prosecutors' body at national level. They're changing all that we've known so far. An organised structure now with clear reference to the European strategy will be able to play its role from now on, so that revenue is not lost and legal order is guaranteed, but, of course, there is harmonisation in the performance of the law between European countries. There was a review of good law. I am really surprised, ladies and gentlemen. If it is not good to legislate, which will also be followed for this bill by the Ministry of Justice, by public consultation at the planned time, by hearing the bodies, by the actual debate on all the relevant parliamentary committees, without the pile of amendments that are usually in existence or in the past in many bills here in this Chamber, in this area, then tell me where the good legislature is. Obviously, I, too, would like to have small monotheistic bills, but in a reality that changes at such a fast pace and in a reality that often compels us, it dictates us to regulate and make changes that are deemed necessary and imperative, you realize that there is always the space or the real need beyond a basic bill to integrate some other legislation that solves problems. And that's what we're doing right now. We're bringing arrangements for the reopening of the courts. We are responding to issues that have indeed had to solve problematic situations. We are giving new organic positions of judges and, of course, we are responding to problems that have been created in the process. And that is what I think we need to understand and keep as a key element in a practice that is certainly not so frequent and so recurring, but it cannot have that kind of criticism. So let's go see the individual issues that have been raised. The bill on its main main area was analysed earlier by the Deputy Minister, Mr Kotsira, who highlighted all the real aspects, that we now have a selection procedure for the European Public Prosecutor as well as for the European Prosecutors. Basically, by means of the legislative modulations we have responded to one, two issues which were raised by colleagues, concerning the acquisition, acquisition or possession of a second degree. And of course we have taken care to predict all these issues which will create a fairly large tank of choice for the particular prosecutors who will be able to find themselves in these positions. Ladies and gentlemen, there has always been a question or an abstention from many colleagues that this is all done in order to make possible choices with the Government's intervention, or perhaps in a way that is not transparent or I do not know how. The practice in justice is specific. The Minister of Justice doesn't choose, the government doesn't choose. In essence, the position now being taken by the European Public Prosecutor is a position for which more than one candidate must be proposed and which the European Commission will judge. The positions of the appointed European Prosecutors within Greece are positions that will be chosen by the Supreme Judicial Council following a proclamation. My abhorrence sometimes of whether one should know how Greek justice works was precisely for all these issues which you have raised many times either from this step or from the footstep of the committee responsible and which I think one should know earlier. He had no reason, if you like, of a style which could often have been deaf to colleagues in any way. Greek justice is independent, remains independent. We are doing everything possible to keep the rule of law strong, even alive during the pandemic period and, of course, to strengthen the independence and functioning of justice in all ways. I now go to Rule 32, which has been a great deal of talk about the disposal of prison buildings by the Ministry of Justice, by the TAFIC, at the Anti-Criminal Policy Secretariat, which is currently in the Ministry of Civil Protection. I repeat that the New Democracy's main election commitment was that the General Secretariat of Crime Policy will be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. The reasons have been analysed. A key pre-election commitment of a party aimed at Greek society and the next of the elections becomes government is being implemented. It's a political decision. That's a reality. I accept, I repeat, the opposite view. But when a party is in the presence of the Greek society in claiming the government with a specific announcement and after the elections it comes to implement it the next day, it obviously cannot be blamed for something that either was hidden or did for another reason, for some other purpose. So let's go from there and beyond as long as that's an admission and it's done. We shared by previous law the resources of the FIFG aimed at penitentiary policy and anti-criminal policy. What was he staying in this case? They lived in these buildings, which are prisons, and which, ladies and gentlemen, for the Justice Ministry and for the FYROM are only costs. Do you understand that? There are no resources from this. So, in other words, what do we do right now? We are transferring the costs which we are unfairly subject to to to date where this policy is conducted. I accept - I say this once again - that you have a different view of this, but that of coming to legislate in order to complete a political choice, which was known in advance, before the elections, in Greek society, I think that if it is not unfairly criticised, or if it is not utopian criticism, it belongs to another completely different logic, which I cannot judge. But let me say one more thing. I also received Mrs Giannakopoulou' s remark that could give rise to a small question about the revenues. We have changed this term and we are talking about resources, precisely to confirm that this provision refers to funds or to appropriations coming from the European Union or from other bodies in order to build, repair, renovate the penitentiary shops. That's all we're talking about. There's no revenue. Costs are all there are. I'll make it clear to you. That's what we tried to avoid. With regard to a point of view which has been formulated, there was no decision of the FIFG Board on this option, ladies and gentlemen, to say that this is by law. The FAO must understand that it is a legal person governed by public law and therefore its property according to established case-law is in the public interest. It is not the case that any decision of the FFO's board of directors on such a choice, and how much more so when the landscape is quite clear and when we are actually talking about 'transfer' - I say once again - costs from the FFO and the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, which is now exercising this policy. You have said many times that other organic positions should be given. You know that we have just given sixty-five new organic positions last year which will be paid on 1 July 2022. The students are already at the National Court School. We are making all this effort very targeted and very specific. Beyond the positions that arise every year as a result of retirement, where we see that there is a real need, we do act in such a way as to serve the overall functioning of justice. However, the distribution of positions, ladies and gentlemen, I will once again say that it is not done by the Ministry of Justice. Depending on what court we're talking about by court administration. That's something I want to make it clear. But tell me, really, all this rhetoric that develops, which basically has a unique objective, 'take other judges and more organic judges', do you know if it has or does not work? At the same time as we are all treating as expressors of certain needs and specific problems in the area of justice, are we aware of a European reality, or if you want a basic need, which we must all recognise and try to satisfy? Do you know that in Greece we have the largest proportion in proportion to the number of judges? Instead of asking for reforms, instead of modernising the framework - but we have said, I am not a legal person - we are just looking at how to react with an opposition rhetoric that at the end of the day you know very well that it does not lead anywhere. It is a bid, which I say again, is absolutely not serving anything, but it is not worth it. I would like to say a few words about the amendment on the ADI, which I think you know. No fellow Members were mentioned earlier, but I would nevertheless like to say that this regulation aims at the digital modernisation of the principle and strengthens the required security and speed of transmission of documents relating to the removal of confidentiality of communication, and their rationalisation and archives. You also know that there are certain specific possibilities for determining the seat of the EPPO and, of course, the third article regulates the insurance status of the European Chief Prosecutors. It is a reality that comes from the European Union and certainly puts us in a sense of a certain rule. I want to spend enough time on Article 23. I have told you since the committee's first practical meeting that I want to listen to the bodies, I would like to hear my fellow Members, and I would like to hear what the parties think and, of course, from there, to make a decision which would be in one direction or another. I do not hide from you that I have listened very carefully to all the arguments put forward, but also to the inaccuracies and irony which have been heard by both honourable Members and certain bodies. And while I am trying to keep as objective a stand against anything that may sound right in the middle, I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I have not decided by the supposed Minister of Justice alone to reduce the number of pages in the documents submitted to the Council of State. How did that happen? It was made by means of a provision which came after a proposal for a unanimous decision of the CoR's administrative plenary session submitted to the Ministry of Justice. That is actually the provision. Some Members have asked: did the Council have the right to take this decision, and why did the Minister for Justice have to listen to this decision? In fact, I have heard that there are underground connections between executive and judiciary and that I am being traded through representatives. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 14 of the Code of Justice and Judiciary stipulates that it is for the plenary to take decisions on matters of general interest, organisation and functioning of the court and on the administration of justice. So let's say I heard this decision. Why did I hear her? I have heard it, ladies and gentlemen, because, following motions by the Chamber of Deputies, rules have been laid down which have led to a reduction in the uncertainties of this court. 2010 was about forty thousand cases and last year it ended up in eleven thousand cases. The processing time it took for each case that entered the CCT from more than five years it took, today is less than two years. I heard the motion for a resolution because the TEC was the first court in the country and from the first in Europe that had an integrated information system since 1999. Do you know that the judiciaries of the Council of State, but of course also the administrative courts, have to a large extent been responsible for the implementation since 2016 of the PDR which has fully digited all administrative justice? So the reason I heard the C.E. is that I have to listen to the Constitution. You know what he's saying? That you - you are legal, you know them better than I have said - that justice is independent, the courts are self-evident, and any legislation which concerns the organisation and functioning of justice must be adopted by the administrative plenary session of the supreme court of the jurisdiction concerned. So there are no underground connections, there are no trade unions, but there are, in fact, no institutional actions to be taken. But let's go a little bit further. Honestly, what, then, is the benefit of the CJ judges for this arrangement, can you tell me? What's the benefit? Will they work less? Will they have more vacations? Will they have better insurance cover? Will they be paid more? I'm really wondering. The regulation, ladies and gentlemen, came to the House, you told me, without the necessary consultation, in particular the plenary session of the lawyers. Has not the 15 days of public consultation reached the Gov.gr platform? Indeed, there have been too many comments and indeed the plenary has had a negative attitude from the outset. Of course, in the democracy that we live in, everyone has the right to express his opinion. But tell me, really, what does it mean for you consultation? Consultation means that if we do not agree with each other's opinion and do not adopt it, then we have not consulted? Is consultation only when we adopt the opposite opinion from us? I really don't understand that. Because it is very nice to say all of this and to create a record, with arguments from each side, but the common sense is the one that always stays at the end. You also said that the arrangement is a Greek originality. There's nowhere and it doesn't fit, you say, into the Greek judicial system. We have said from the outset that it is an adaptation of the respective rules of both the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. There are exactly corresponding arrangements in the highest courts of the United States, Canada and England. There you said we had nothing to do with the Anglo-Saxon system. Yes, sir. But do you really think that squareism and circumcision are the reason why a judicial system can be effective and move forward? And I repeat that I'm not a lawyer, I ask questions of common sense. I don't do anything more than that. Or, really, are they not the reasons for paraphrasing and making it difficult for the right and rapid administration of justice? You also said that the right to judicial protection was affected, that the poor citizen would not be able to bring an effective recourse to justice. I do not know, but I wonder whether this article has actually been read from the beginning to the end, not only because there is no unacceptable, not only because in cases where the Secretariat of the Council of State may, after consultation with the President, request that the proxy be adjusted to a lesser extent than that of the case, but also to judge whether and when he needs to impose the known penalty up to three times the judicial expense. So, in order to say otherwise, when you heard from the spokesman of the board in public consultation that the most spectacular case involving retrospective insurance was about a page and a page half, this is not a real example of how a case can evolve in the Council of State? Look, ladies and gentlemen, - I think you know that, I learned it in retrospect - the Council of State may be the only court in which both lawyers and the parties have direct and personal contact with the judges who are going to judge their case. Let us say that we have no confidence in the Council of State and that its judges are bad and want to harm the right to legal protection and they say that the document is big and we need to cut it down. What happens in this case? We ignore them and insist on our long-sketched book. What's next? If anyone wins, who thinks he's right, nothing. But if he loses, the maximum that he can impose is this three-fold penalty. Do you also want me to tell you that the penalty concerning the possibility of imposing on anyone who has been abusing the trial has not been imposed ten times on the Council of State for the last ten years? Because this is a real fact. It is therefore obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a regulation of an intrinsic nature. It looks more like, one would say, with'soft law' and aims to promote and strengthen the channels of communication between the judges of the Council of State and the lawyers, so that all together can help to improve the quality and speed of justice. Yes, the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations is opposed to the measure, although with those lawyers who are actually addressing and working with the Council of State, they all told me that they were tabling small documents. It is simply not the regulation that satisfied them. Nevertheless, I think that discussing whether the twenty or thirty pages are the problem in the administration of justice, I will also tell you first that it is funny. But what is it? The authors' pages will not solve the problem of speed in the administration of justice by themselves, but will create another culture, ladies and gentlemen, to which we must all move. We all recognise the paths and problems in the field of justice and everyone at any time, at any opportunity, express in our public word that the greatest problem in the administration of justice is time, is delays. But when we go on reforming or approaching issues that will help, in essence, this speeding up of the time of justice, unfortunately most of us are beginning to resist, since reforms always involve some cost at a certain level, they must find allies in a reasonable effort to gain a small political benefit. Because that's what this is all about, and you know it very well. Is this regulation capable of itself? I ask once again rhetoric. No, it's not. It is, however, added to a large framework of reforms, which since July 2019 we have essentially supported and are implementing a step-by-step step in the Justice Ministry. Do you want me to remind you? Many of these we have already legislated and some of them are very close. Do you know what will be the next bill that has completed the public consultation cycle? The new Code of Judiciary Officers. Do you know that soon the committee will complete its work on the new code of civil procedure, so that we can finally speed up the political trial? Do you know that by summer we will actually vote on the Rules of Procedure and the new Code of Judiciary? Do all of this really not serve the need to reform the way in which the officials of justice, the covenants of justice, have to go ahead with a reality which we all recognise needs to change, but none of us is doing anything to change it? Do you want me to tell you any more subdivisions? Intermediation with Mr. 4640/2019, which is a reality now in Greece. The fact that we have the special sections for differences in developmental character by L.4700/2020, that we have the statistical office, we have changed the organizational chart at the Ministry of Justice to make a statistical directorate, a truly important tool in the hands of any Minister of Justice in the years to come, in order to make changes and reforms with real data, rather than assumptions. I am also mentioning the fact that the documents will be lodged electronically from the summer and the Council of State and the Administrative Courts, that we have accelerated the performance process by electronic means by means of 4689/2020, the fact that at the moment and especially throughout the pandemic period, with a memorandum of cooperation with the Secretariat-General of Digital Governance and Simplification of Procedures, we have accelerated twenty-eight actions, that the certificates now issued by the judicial authorities have been introduced into the'solon.gov.gr' programme - one colleague mentioned earlier, if I am not mistaken - that in addition to the fifteen certificates issued by judicial authorities can now be taken by the JEPs, the fact that we have voted on the new procedure of the Court of Auditors and another draft law effectively complete the new nature of the Court of Auditors and, of course, that we have given and continue to give new organic posts, when necessary. Do you think of all this as something all this time? Or are you going to tell me that you have seen them in the recent past at the same frequency and intensity? Or will you also tell me that it is not essential for the initiatives which are part of a genuine reform effort that has been taking place in the Ministry of Justice in recent years? Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all judged. In public life and especially in the political scene, Greek citizens judge us every day and can see what the results of politics are either individually or collectively. And since you have often wondered whether and whether we are taking steps to protect workers in the field of justice before I answer that, I will tell you that from the very first moment the pandemic began, what has been asked of me by any court administration, I can assure you that it has been given. It has been given because the clear mandate, initiated by the Prime Minister himself and by me, reached the area of courts, judicial officers and judicial officers, was that we must protect public health. What may happen to you, perhaps again, is that they are responsible for these measures in addition to the general measures which may be announced by the Government are the administrations of the courts. How these measures are implemented and what policy of protection against pandemic is being implemented is not exactly about the Ministry of Justice. It's the Ministry of Justice that has to give all the tools, all the means. That is why, with an effort that has been made over the last few years, I would like to thank the Ministry of Health for this step, and the Minister of Health, Mr Kikilias, has ensured nine thousand rapid tests, which will take place within the area of justice, and of course will concern the judicial officers and judges, in order precisely to take all protection measures that will help Greek citizens and, of course, all those who are in the field of justice, to protect themselves from this difficult period of pandemic. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Finally, we said that there would be an amendment concerning the reopening of the courts. It's about the gradual reopening, no one gets confused and thinks the next day the courts will open, that's not going to happen. However, you realise that since yesterday the Committee on Epidemiologists and environ mentists did not take place and given that we had such a large number of cases, we have to look at the decisions of the committee from there and from there to there. This also dictates the serious, responsible attitude of the Ministry of Justice towards a reality that we all recognise as difficult. I've said it and I'll repeat it, I'm personally in favour of open courts. But in the crucial question, who will take responsibility, someone has to give the answer. And of course, all this time, I say it and I repeat it, Greek justice has worked through the measures of the true presence of the rule of law. You know very well that the light bulbs also operated key functions and limitations didn't exist. All of these are issues which we see very responsibly and very carefully, so that the rule of law does not affect the rights of Greek citizens for any reason not to be lost. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The efforts of the reforms that we have been making in recent years at the Ministry of Justice, I think, are an effort that shows the way, bears fruit, and it is an effort that will, in the short term, be visible not only from the people of Greek justice, the officials and the contributors, but also from the entire Greek society. I personally testify to both my respect and my absolute confidence in both the judicial officers and the judicial officers and the officials of justice, in the legal world. It's an effort that we all have to make together. With divisions and efforts to preach the moratorium between us at the last minute, we will obviously not achieve our goal. However, if we do believe that all together must try to ensure that the pandemic does not bring the dramatic results that we see in neighbouring countries and, of course, to keep the highest good that human life is, and that concerns all Greek citizens and all Greek society, I think we will achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u132	Thank you too, Minister. We'll move on to the rapporteurs' seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, there is a legislative improvement. For economic reasons too, in order to have it, I should like to present it before the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u134	Thank you. I would ask that it be taken over and distributed to my fellow rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives. We're going to the process of the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. Mrs. Bakadima, Mr. Hetas and Mrs. Konnaka don't want to be seconded. Let's go to Mrs. Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement, which she wants to second. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. But you will allow me to make a point of order before I get into the essence of what I say. I think that at some point in this Chamber some rules should also apply to proceedings, Mr President. In other words, when Members are confined to speaking in the exact time of our speech, I believe that the ministers should also be allowed to do so. Minister, I respect your role, your office, and I understand that you must answer what you have heard in plenary. But when your speaking time is more than twice as much time as expected, that is not respect for Members. Mr President, I put this to you as well, but also to the President of this House as a whole, that is an issue that you should see. Parliament's Rules of Procedure must be observed by both the Members and the Ministers, with regard to speaking time. I would ask you, therefore, to understand this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u136	Are you talking about this minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u137	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u138	He's got the denology, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u139	The Minister never spoke again. Excuse me, but if I sum up here, I have the impression that you're wrongly complaining. The Bureau, not myself in particular, is very favourable to all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u140	I would ask for a rule he has to keep.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u141	According to statistics, someone who is entitled to 15 minutes speaks twenty-two and speaks back and intervenes, etc. I do not think that this remark is a success.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u142	I put it, because I see it from tactics, and I very much ask that we be very careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u143	You have put it, but the Bureau does not accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u144	All right, I'll come back if it happens again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u145	Unless there's others to plead for it. If there is, I'll take it. Although I wasn't the one who betrayed me. I came to go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u146	I know, Mr President. I don't speak personally, I speak politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u147	But I take the time to see how well the Bureau is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u148	You didn't just erase him to me, but anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u149	You're not telling the truth. I'm sorry, you're causing me and I'm going to say this. You remember that a few days ago you had a timely question. You were entitled to two minutes, and you spoke six and a half, and in your denture, you were entitled to three minutes and you spoke seven and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u150	Let's see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u151	I was the President-in-Office, and I was outlawed. I am talking about the timely question concerning the table of the Legal Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u152	I'm asking to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u153	I have nothing more to say, but the point was not good. I have to. You have the floor for five minutes with tolerance and as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much. I will confine myself to less time, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to the position of the Minister. I will remain in Article 23, which has also created all this strong political controversy. I was expecting, like I told you, that you'd get it back. I am sorry, but you have finally proved to us and you have asked us how much it really makes sense for parliamentary dialogue and parliamentary procedure in the committees, because you had nothing new to tell us about how you ultimately stick to your decision. Of course, Mr Minister, you said - and you are used to doing these self-government things - that your decision came from the fact that you have a decision of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. Very nice. And? Who legislates, Minister? Who's legislating? Is judicial authority in law? Who takes the initiative of legislating? Is that what you came to tell us from the Step of the House House? And of course, you also insulted the law enforcement, when you say that 'yes, how did we not hear them, was in consultation for fifteen days'. Are you serious? You have sat on a table, that is what you say, you have spoken to the judiciary, to the representatives of judicial authority, but, of course, at this table lawyers or other stakeholders should not be present, they were able through public consultation. Congratulations! Very good. What I have to say is that, unfortunately, this is all about political self-consciousness, a political arrogance and, above all, a very great arrogance, when you are not listening and when you are insisting in this way on manifestly wrong decisions. You have not convinced me that you really understand what you are going to do and above all, what impact you will have on what you are going to do. Unfortunately, if one minister accepts one group's requests - I should like to put it very generally - without hearing or at the same table there are other bodies, I wonder what it's called. I would call it old-fashioned at least, Minister. Unfortunately, however, you are singing - and I insist on this - the constitutionally guaranteed rights of Greek citizens, you are restricting the right to fair trial, you are restricting the right to legal protection without giving convincing answers. And I close, before my time, Mr President, by saying that, unfortunately, this regulation complements a standard pattern of government policy, if, of course, we combine it with the imposition of the anti-constitutional judiciary in the recognizing actions that you have brought it into the Parliamentary amendment and, of course, with the suffocating deadlines that you have set in No 3869/2010. It shows, therefore, that you have "allergies" to the uncomfortable access of citizens to the legal order, annoying for the government, annoying for the banks, annoying at all kinds of investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u157	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u158	I really don't think you're listening to anything I'm saying and I understand it. It's the well-known opposition tactic. So are you telling me that it is abusive what is provided for in the Constitution, that the plenary of a supreme court should take a decision and propose any decision to the Minister for Justice? Is that what you're telling me right now? That's what I haven't done well, so I can figure it out. From there on, because I witnessed this criticism by you and also by other colleagues in one of the previous bills, which concerned the procedure for redefining the cases of the Katseli Act, Law No. 4745/20 - did you, ladies and gentlemen, have seen the details of the platform? Have you looked out for curiosity to see what happened with this new Katseli law regulation, which we condemned, voted against, denounced in the Greek Parliament? Did you have the curiosity to look for it, find it? I'd do it if I were you. If I was a complainant, I can assure you I would have done it. So listen, ladies and gentlemen, to see how all you are complaining about can have a completely different effect. Elements 3-32020: Six thousand seven hundred eighty two redefinition applications have been definitively submitted by the proxy lawyer, thirteen thousand sixty-two redefinition requests have been completed by the peace hearings and have been notified to the parties. In summary, twenty thousand four hundred forty-four applications have been submitted from the total of sixteen thousand eight hundred twenty-five cases that should have been identified by 28-2-2021, that is, three thousand six hundred nineteen more applications. Do you even know at what time? At a time when all legal and judicial deadlines, including the time limits laid down in Article 1 of Law 4745/2020, were suspended, resulting in a slowdown in the rate of submission of applications for redefinition. I hope that after that, you will also make a search for the facts at the next meeting we will meet in the next bill, I will hear your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u159	Please, Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u160	Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u161	First of all, although you're not a lawyer, the way you deal with things is probably going a little bit further towards bicolaiism, I'd say. Why am I saying that? Because you distort each other's words to justify your alleged arguments. So if you understand what I'm saying, if you hear what I'm saying to you, I never said that they had no right to the Council of State, of course the administrative plenary will take any decision. Any decision they want to make is their right. But your right and duty is to have a fair judgement about the legislation you bring to the Greek Parliament to vote, not to do what you're told. I am not targeting anyone, but you must not listen unilaterally to groups about the way you legislate, because this is how you legislate in no way, Minister, and that is what you need to see. And answer the evidence you brought us about the Katseli law, don't think...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u162	They're not mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u163	I'm sorry, Minister, we know very well what the evidence is. We know very well that in the first period it was fifteen, sixteen thousand who had gone, and now my own figures were eighteen and a half thousand, obviously on the basis of what you said are not so up-to-date. But you know what that looks like? This shows that in your intention - and I am ending, Mr President - to limit the right of citizens with suffocating deadlines in the middle of quarantine and with closed services, people reacted because they wanted to save their property. And as much as you expected it could not be in such difficult circumstances, it was not discouraged. So what more do you want to know about this? The Greek society, whatever obstacles you put to it for the interests of banks and others, has shown that it will do anything to save its property, its first home, its first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Kalematian has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will also begin with the last point on the redefinition cases of the Katseli Act. The fact that tens of thousands of our fellow citizens have been forced into the pandemic to gather evidence and re-submit applications for redefinition shows that the problem was and is very big. Not all of them rushed because they rejoice about your legislation. They do not say "go, long and nice" that, in the quarantine, applicants who go to save their home to collect the information and say "go for doing so to run, to have the stress not to lose our home". The fact that these tens of thousands have complied with means that you have actually put them under your own law in this situation. All burdens on applicants, debtors, who since the ten years of crisis have gone to lose everything and to them you say "Run, hurry, lose your home", and have been forced to do so. All for the banks! All the burdens on the debtors! And you say, "Bravo," what good did they run and do? But even one to lose his home is the burden of this law. From this law, he'll lose it, because he won't make it. And that's what you did. So don't tell us that thirty-six thousand, forty thousand rushed and did it. It's a huge problem! Even one I'm telling you. Now, the Deputy Minister, who knows the issues, has also been mentioned, is a legal person, for insurance contributions and for Law No.4387, the law of Katrugalou. He also knows very well that under this law those who had a low income and especially young lawyers paid very low insurance contributions monthly. For 75% of lawyers this contribution was EUR 165 earlier and EUR 185 a month later. By your law, Law 4670, this contribution is EUR 220. It was 167 euros before or 185 euros in the second phase, and now it is 220 euros. When did they pay less, then or now? For the care that has been provided by the SYRIZA Government, I would like to mention that we have provided for support programmes through the NSRP and for the development of lawyer offices, we have committed funding and support for new and enforced lawyers from the NSRP, and we have also included in the practical exercise of lawyers in the courts and prosecutors now being implemented. So, in practice, despite the memorials that other governments put us up to 2009-2010, we have achieved several things and special care for young lawyers. That is why we are saying that now in the pandemic there is a need, that all lawyers, all lawyers, the strengthening of lawyers and especially of the new lawyers. That is why we are saying that our amendment providing for assistance to the officials of justice who, as professionals, are being constrained by the functioning of justice and which, of course, is now suspended a year. So we ask, even now, that you accept the amendment and that there should be a moral reward for the lawyers who have been particularly affected. I now come to your amendment. Until now - a minute, Minister - the President of the ADA was obliged to inform the Heads of the parties of provisions for the lifting of confidentiality made for national security reasons. The amendment does not guarantee that this will continue until the issue of the CSM. We have to look at this, because if the NSA is late to extradited, there is no care. Paragraph 3 does not refer to that. Finally, let me say that our country's initiative to participate in the process of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor was taken by the previous government, the SYRIZA Government. It was not an originality or an achievement of your own governance alone. Electronic justice, too, and in particular electronic movement of applications and certificates, cannot be credited exclusively to your own government. The SYRIZA government has completed the SYRIZA project and there is continuity in the administration. Don't try to charge everything just to your own governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u168	Yes, Mr. Undersecretary, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u169	Mr Kalamanianos, in relation to what you mentioned about the insurance contributions of scientists who have been protesting for eight months, abstentioning the lawyers for whom the pain has suddenly taken you and never listened to them, and then a provision was made for a transitional period and for some time there has been a reduced rate, forget to say this. The sum of insurance contributions and tax burdens incurred by the SYRIZA Government - and you know that very well, and it was one of the reasons why these categories completely depreciated you - was often 80% of income. That is the first thing we should assess, how much at the end of the day a professional gets out and gives the broader state fund. For technically speaking, you have only referred to the first category of insurance contributions and not to the others which are much less. Why with the previous system, what did you do? To one point was indeed less, no incentive to move to another income scale and full bleeding if you were leaving over EUR 10,000-12,000. Full bleeding. 80% of the income went to the state fund. Now what did we do? Combining the change of the insurance system with the reduction of taxation - and you know that - the sum is much smaller. The freelance professional, despite the very great pressure that he feels in time of pandemic... And this is an independent debate, but because you were mentioned, trying to eliminate the insurance system for which eight months were all protesting and no one saw them, don't come now to forget the data of the sum and all the other classes of insurance that were really painful for the average free trader, for the average Greek scientist. You realise that making this comparison, which was judged by the Greek people in the 2019 elections, essentially and symbolically, has nothing to do with reality. The difference in summing up all these data is huge at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u171	Give an answer, but there will be a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Secretary, I know you know things as well as I do. You referred to the insurance law, the Katrugalu law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u173	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u174	Yes, you answered Mr. Zachariadis for telling me about the insurance. I told you data. He paid 167 euros or 185 euros every month and now 220 euros. Under 12,000 euros, Mr. Plouris, you know that too, said and declared 75% of lawyers. The large majority, therefore, also benefited from the sum of insurance contributions and taxation. The highest percentage was beneficial. A small percentage of 20% -25% did not benefit. We're with the many, not the few. Many have benefited. The few had a burden. Those who have more contributions, those who have less pay less. This is a good approach. So, with evidence, that results. And insurance contributions and taxation results in a different result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u175	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u176	Minister, alas, you have to shut down. The last reason you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u177	I will respond to the previous positions and Mr Kalamatianos and Mrs Giannakopoulou. I was hoping, Madam President, that next time you would come by getting the information and analyzing what really happened. Instead, I saw what usually happens in politics. After the scenario that we had adopted and presented at the time, which was 'do not make it', 'it is not going to happen', 'you force them and they will not be able to collect the papers', now that we have three and a half thousand cases more than we calculated, the argument has changed, 'you forced them to do it'. At some point because the Greek citizens see us and judge us, we must at least have a consistency in our arguments. Really, the thirty-five thousand auctions of Ms. Ahcioglu, where did they go, Mr. Kalamamaiane? Will you tell me? Mrs Ahtsoglou had come out the day after the bill was passed and said, "The government tomorrow makes thirty-five thousand auctions." Where did those auctions go? We're looking for them. That's what I'm saying. Instead, you see that a bill which has many different objectives, which speeds up over-ten years, which responds to a commitment by your own government to the European institutions and which, on the other hand, gives the real beneficiary the opportunity to benefit from protection, for you was an effort that had absolutely no objective. We are still oriented, as I have told you at the first moment, in a great reform effort. We will support the Greek citizens and the Greek society and give Greek justice the opportunity to reform, change. Because - I will say this once again - ladies and gentlemen, Greek justice is not just the judges, not just the judicial officers, nor only the lawyers. Greek justice is the real pillar of society. Greek justice is the appeal of the weak citizen. Your colleague, Mr. Lappas, said that. Greek justice and justice in general are a key - I would say - body, on which the entire social structure is based. That should be our general understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is finalised: ‘Application of the provisions of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the application of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, arrangements for the functioning of the courts and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty-five articles, two amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u179	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u180	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u181	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Application of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the application of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, arrangements for the functioning of the courts and other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u183	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-18-S1-commons.u184	With the consent of the House at 17.46 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 19 March 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
