ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 24-5-2021 authorisation, the PKZ minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Friday 21 May 2021 as regards the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Production, export and disposal of finished hemp products of the kind Cannabis Sativa L containing more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Parliamentary and Legal Affairs shall inform the House of the topical and urgent questions on the agenda today and are well-known and submitted to Parliament. The fifth will be discussed under No. 753/10-5-2021, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Restoration of the Cretan Monument of the Great Cretan National Benefit of Antonio F. Papadakis". The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mrs Styliani Mendoni. Mr. Logiadis, you have the floor to develop your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, good morning, good week. My question concerns the monument of the great Cretan national benefactor, indeed, and the political leader of the Cretan Revolution of 1866-1869. We have to say that. In the 1st Cemetery is the burial monument of the benefactor of the Greek state Antonio Papadakis, who was careless, had no children. He created all his property at the University of Athens, which, for his offer, honoured him with a grave at the 1st Cemetery, which is considered a historical monument and art work, because he is decorated with the sculpture "Science" of the great artist Vroutus and is right across from the "Sleeve" of Aleppo. Between 1946 and 1947, during the civil war, the convicted in twenty years' imprisonment, but also condemned in the conscience of the Greek people co-worker of the Germans and the Minister of Interior over the domicile government of Tsolakoglou, Panagiotis Demetrikas with a simple responsible statement built this burial monument and thus this monument was made by a burial monument of Papadakis essentially private grave. This year, on 30 March 2021, the Ministry of Culture recommended the following in writing to the Central Council of Modern Monuments of the Ministry: "Follower interventions" - I read just - "which alter the original composition and original work of the sculptor, which was characterized as a monument, are elements which are foreign to the thematic and symbolic content of the sculptor and must be properly removed." Within five days the Ministry of Culture withdraws this suggestion and says: "Taking into account new elements that have been put into consideration in view of our address" etc. The lawyer, Mr Lazaratos, who is the grandson of the donor, publicly thanked the government and mentioned in public media: "This was the end of a small, large, internal adventure thanks to the immediate personal intervention of Prime Minister Mitsotakis and then of the Minister of Culture Mr Mendoni, who thanked him from this post publicly, as well as thanks to the brotherly interest of the Minister of State, colleague, university professor, Mr Gerapetritis, and the Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, beloved student Mr Bouga, who considered the issue of honour for a family and a government at the first time, but especially thanks to your love and thanks to you through my heart," notes. Minister, given that any intervention on the original form of the monument is an extreme act of desecration and insult both of the memory of the benefactor and of the fighters for the liberation of Greece, ask: Why was this suggestion withdrawn from your Ministry for the removal of the bustling, the names and the plaque that are there, which are foreign elements? What did he go through for that? What were the new evidence provided to do this? Also, will you remove from the monument the bustling of the condemned donation Quarter, as well as the additional information, to render the prices appropriate to our national benefactor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to unblock the facts, and of course I will reply to you in accordance with the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. As you mentioned in your question, the Ministry of Culture in 2001 shared the protection of the grave of Antonio Papadakis, which described as an artwork, which requires special state protection, because it is a work of Leonida Vroutus and was made in the memory of Papadakis, who was indeed a very important man, a great benefactor of the University of Athens and at the same time the grave monument presents excellent artistic interest. The decision to classify the monument in 2001 does not refer to the exclusion of subsequent interventions. In addition, in the recommendation of the competent agency, in 2001, the Central Council of New Monuments referred to the subsequent interventions that have been placed on the front of the composition of the grave monument above the crypt, namely on the marble plaque and there is the marble bust, as you said, of Demetrija. What is not legally clear is whether they are phases that are protected, whether the Council and the Ministry of Culture then considered themselves protected or not. In March 2019, the General Secretariat of Degree of Hellenism, with its document, asked the Ministry of Culture to take over in order to restore the burial monument of Papadakis. Thus, in order to examine the issue by the Central Council of Modern Monuments of the Ministry, in fact last March the Department of Protection and Restoration of Modern and Modern Monuments drafted a recommendation on the completion of the Ministerial Decision of 2001, which was described as a historic monument and work of art as the gravel monument. This suggestion of the service concerned the completion of the above-mentioned characterisation decision, noting that the subsequent interventions alter the original composition of the sculptor. In the same suggestion, as subsequent interventions, the invasive inscriptions, which are all before 2001, were mentioned, with the exception of an indication of 2007, which was made without permission from the Ministry of Culture, since in 2001 the monument had been classified as being clearly illegal. The problem arises from the moment it is not clear - and I will also present to you the FEK and the suggestion to the Central Council of New Monuments of 2001 - what was described then under the archaeological law. Thus, on 1.4.2021 a request was lodged with the competent authority by the alleged beneficiary, who invoked a legitimate interest, requested the revocation of the decision, since the above inscriptions with the names of the deceased did not constitute subsequent interventions, so they were also within the protection provided by the archaeological law. Thus, in order to ensure and given that there is also an open court in the Athens Court, the department withdrew its suggestion in order to better establish its recommendation to the Central Council of Modern Monuments. And here I would point out that the only case where archaeological law says a previous act can be revoked is for error. In order to be legally correct, therefore, a procedure should have been carried out which had not been foreseen. From there on, today the services of the Ministry of Culture want to properly compile the dossier with the additional arguments on the basis of the new data, so that the Central Council of Modern Monuments can see the matter again. It is obvious that the responsibility of the burial monument lies with the Municipality of Athens, which is the owner of the cemetery and therefore not only with the monument, but with the whole. So the Ministry of Culture doesn't get into property at all. Our responsibility is to protect the monument of the great benefactor Antonios Papadakis, and the Ministry of Culture is prepared to contribute in every possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Logiadis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, this burial monument is the only one in the First Cemetery where interventions and alterations have been made. We can't go to the First Cemetery of Athens and do what we want out there. The convicted, therefore, both judicially and in the conscience of the people, Dollar Remembranced the history and sacred memory of the national benefactor Antonis Papadakis. And his descendant, the lawyer Lazaratos, negatively confirms the morality of his ancestor. Neither you, Mrs Lazaratos, nor your Ministry, Mr Gerapitris, nor the Prime Minister, who has publicly thanked you for direct personal intervention in this matter, have so far given no convincing answers to these questions. People wonder what binds you. All Cretan questions are very reasonable. I will submit to you unanimously resolutions from both the Municipality of Lassithi, where the national benefactor and a unanimous resolution from the Region of Crete has been born to restore the monument and the values it represents. The issue is purely moral, worthy, national and more for us Cretans. Otherwise, they twist memories, paraphrase and alter the story and some Cretan goose groups may come in and out in no time at all. The whole Cretan people are aggregated. You combined all the Cretans and that's why we thank you, of course. Finally, even if Demeshas and Papadakis were related, which are clearly not, the graves are not inherited, and much more the monuments. One should not have been inhabited there, one more as a convicted domicile, even if he was the son of the late Antonis Papadakis. The monument should not have been altered either by inscriptions by bustlings or by plates and there is, as I said, no other monument at the First Cemetery, which has been altered. If the Municipality of Athens wants, let's give another place to the First Cemetery for the burial of these people. The Ministry is not mentioned until now if the bust or all of these engraves are gone and it also says nothing about how these burials were made there. Also, the unprecedented withdrawal of a recommendation from the New Monuments Council takes place for the first time after the Culture and concerns the protection of the domicile and their family from the Ministry of Culture. Is there a conclusion from the National Transparency Authority that orders actions? I will end with a veil of Cretans: 'Never...' - says - 'The branches must not forget roots, because if they are dried up, they will also be lost'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u8	Mr Papoutsis, I will fully agree with you that the issue is primarily worthwhile, but at the same time it is administrative and legal. What concerns you and us is obviously the restoration of truth and the restoration of history. And I think we're absolutely coordinates on this. First of all, I would like to point out to the attention of you - I am sure you know that - and this is the step by step is that the withdrawal of the recommendation does not mean that the declaration is not valid. An administrative act, such as a ministerial decision of 2001, is obviously not revoked by a recommendation. Therefore, the burial monument of Antonio Papadakis remains as a monument based on the archaeological law, Law 3028/2002, and is fully protected. In relation to the withdrawal, I must say that this is not the first time that this has been done in the service. The service acts in this way when new data emerge, which should be examined precisely in order to be able to support its position in the best possible way. On 3-7-2019 it was sent to the Ministry of Culture and to the relevant departments - these do not reach the Office of Political Leadership - a document from the Court of Justice, which asked the relevant departments of the Ministry of Culture to deposit, in August 2019, in order to form a case-file for the alleged interventions that have altered the form of the monument. This, therefore, should be considered on the basis of the new data submitted by the carrier, as he claims, having a legitimate interest, so that the recommendation to the Central Council of New Monuments and therefore the decision to be adopted will be fully documented. I repeat what I said to you earlier: Archaeological Law and the one that applied in 2001, namely Law 5351/32 and the current one, Law 3028/2002, in the only case that accepts a change of proclamation, is the error of things, and here we really have - you will see it from the FEK and from the suggestion, the opinion of the Central Council of New Monuments - a confusion which, at least administratively, we will have to investigate. It's something that's going to happen right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the eighth under number 774-17-2021 the second time question from the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Direct measures to support clubs and athletes in the relaunch of sport". The Deputy Minister of Sports Mr Eleftherios Aeggeakis will answer. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. As regards the resumption of this activity, Minister, it does not mean that I press a button and sport is restarted. This constitutes a need for support measures. Nevertheless, the consequences of the enclosure due to the government's measures in amateur sport are multifaceted and have led to the exacerbation of already serious chronic problems. The economic suffocation in the field of amateur sport due to the reduction in subsidies from all federations, the continuing reduction in sports subsidies from all previous governments, is obviously forbiddingly operating for the rest of the clubs. The HILS programme alone does not solve the problem. It simply manages the reductions, the scissors in grants, and indeed, with the roughness of the selection of criteria, especially for large federations that have a significant volume of athletes and games, participations in events, in pre-lympicious tournaments, international meeting, sports campaign, preparation and go and say, much more, of course, this year is the Olympic year. As a result, therefore, of all this, there is the limitation of a large part of the vital benefits to thousands of athletes, their families, coaches, workers in the field of sport, whose survival depends on their involvement with sport and is without income for too many months. Therefore, with the above data, clubs, athletes, parents cannot afford to meet the requirements and needs of restart without any support measures. It is true that the use of the sports facilities of the General Secretariat of Sports had not been decided either on the removal of characters and on the total discharge of clubs from debts. At the same time, when there are instructions from the Secretariat-General for those involved from any point of view - be they sportsmen, coaches or staff - in a sporting event, they require the mandatory rapid-tests for the so-called negative result, but without any consideration being given to who takes over these costs for diagnostic tests. It is, of course, taken over by the athlete, who is taken over by the parent at an unreasonable cost. And if there's two and three children in the family, uh, then we're talking about wanting a couple of dirt and a half. This reality is the result of the government's policy on the footsteps of its predecessors, because it is not only New Democracy, and obviously, in our view, it aims at the disappearance of small groups and the hitting of amateur sport, obviously for the benefit of sport and goods, by abolishing the right to sport for everyone. So we ask you, Minister: What measures will you take to ensure that there is a safe resumption of sport under state responsibility and not individual responsibility, without any charge of clubs, athletes and parents, for exceptional additional financing of clubs and federations in order to fully meet their needs of operation and to get the unions rid of these rents - carpets and debts for the use of the sports facilities belonging to the General Secretariat of Sports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, as I have already informed you from this point of view, during the pandemic at the General Secretariat of Sports, we have not been unsuccessful in developments. We have worked out intensively and are already implementing a safe resumption plan for sport under the new conditions in line with the developments in epidemiological data. And we can say that we are now on a very good path, because we know what we are dealing with. By carrying the experience of a year or more, we move in steps firmly so that Greek sport can reach its own freedom. It is certainly not just the detailed health measures that we have taken. We have taken care of and proceeded with the financial support of our country's amateur sports clubs. In fact, Mr Colleague, as it appears from your parliamentary presence that you are very concerned about Greek sport, I wonder why you have not recognized any positive measures that have been taken all these months by our Government? You who often appear densely as an addict of amateur sport, why haven't you recognized steps that the majority of representatives of amateur sport have publicly welcomed? After twelve years we have proceeded to the direct grant of amateur sports clubs for their immediate support. With absolute transparency and objective criteria, the definition of direct support for the base of sport with a revolution of self-evident, that is, as we have said, and the unions themselves have agreed. And you didn't just say a word. The truth is, it takes courage to recognize something positive that is done by the government. Yeah, we did the self-evident thing. We decided to house the sports landscape, put order, always through transparent procedures, in a semi-legality regime in sports clubs. It works for the first time in a record of amateur sports clubs, that is, for the self-evident reason our government had to come to do so, a step with a direct impact on the base. And not only did you not support it, but you have been exposed several times with unfounded accusations in this House about the manipulation of sport. Fortunately we did not back off, of course, and we continued our work unequivocally. May I remind you of some measures to support amateur sport? In order to facilitate unions during the critical period of pandemic, we have arranged lightning for their inclusion into the additional CAR for support measures and during the Lockdown last June for all workers employed in amateur sports clubs and federations of our country. We proceeded with tax relief for the benefit of sport. With the Ministry of Finance's Law 4714/2020 we have arranged so that sports games tickets - since September I hope that we will have people on the stadiums, first God - will be subject to a reduced VAT rate from 24% to 13%. The taxation of coach incomes is similar to that of paid athletes, which is to be reduced to 22% of the 45% that was up to the earliest. In Law 4646/2019 we predicted a reduction of the tax rate to 22% from 45% for the amounts paid by sports anonymous companies to athletes for the signing of contract registrations or for the renewal or termination of contractual cooperation, but also a 20% reduction in the amount of the tax that applied to the amounts of donations to amateur sports clubs alone. In other words, we have solved a reasonable and crucial issue of many amateur sports clubs with regard to the movement of their students. On the basis of Article 66 of Law 4735 by way of a municipal council decision, it is possible to provide financial grants to sports clubs to promote the sport concerned as well as to cover the costs of traveling sports and sports teams based in their area and participating in national Olympic sports championships. The provisions exclude sporting anonymity companies. And since you have also referred to the use of sports facilities belonging to GAA by sports clubs, I would remind you that since the first period of the pandemic, all the administrations of our national sports centres have made generous facilities to all clubs. Unfortunately, my dear colleague, not only did you not welcome any of the measures we have taken, but you ignore them clearly. And your selective approach can lead to sport on dangerous paths, if of course you were in the government at some point. Fortunately, however, this will not happen. Fortunately in our own government what we are doing now, the sports family is well aware that we are fully consistent with our commitments and knows that from the very first moment we are practically on their side. For the recent economic and tax measures we have implemented, I will inform you in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u12	Here you go, Mr. Synergy, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Secretary, all right, you guys do your verbal proclamations every time. Obviously this is a way of justifying the government's stagnation, inappropriation and perpetuation of problems in the field of sport. So of course and every time, whenever you're from the Step, you mix the same and the same arguments. But the problem remains, Mr President, and the problem is the economic problem. And the economic is the basis and at the same time the link of a chain of issues that remain unsolved and has to do with the sustainability of amateur associations, with the lack of or many times the poor state of sports facilities, the shortcomings in the logistics infrastructure, the absence of programming, medical care and so on. We are approaching the end of May - and this is why you have not even received the first instalment of the grant approved by the General Secretariat of Sports. What are we talking about? The situation is marginal. We're two months before the Olympic Games. Programming cannot proceed as obligations must be fulfilled to suppliers, athletes, coaches, unions. There are many current obligations. How, then, will the Olympic Games be prepared under these circumstances? And I ask you: important sports events, such as "Venizelia", "Paplessia" and 10 more international meetings, a total of twelve, so far you have not financed them. On Sunday begins "Venezelia", an all-successful sporting institution. Will you give them money or just because you threw the ball at the municipalities and you have the district that makes you oil every time you stay there? It's a question. You'll give me money? It's a simple question. Which meeting will be funded by the end of 2021, which is the Olympic Year and by what criteria, in order to allow Greek athletes to gather rating points ahead of Tokyo's Olympiad? You don't know them? You know it. The EVA has notified you of this from April 26th with which it asks you, the state, the exceptional financial support of the organizers to ensure the uninterrupted and successful organisation of these twelve international Mittings. In short, you follow - not only you, all the governments, who have been through over time - a policy of extinction of the small groups and the blow of amateur sport to the benefit of sport goods. A lot of the sports clubs pulled out to register in the so-called sports register, which no one has ever questioned, but also the intention but, above all, the result through which the government seeks to control and manipulate sports clubs. Many of these associations were therefore not integrated because they did not even bother compiling the necessary data, because the cost was too high, bureaucracy was unbearable and many others responded because of shortcomings in the documents, despite the fact that all these associations had a rich sporting activity. What are you doing today? You put them back in a new suffering. I say this because the ministerial decision to set up the 2020 registry provided exceptionally for the result of the audit not to take into account applications submitted from 15-5-2020 to 31-12-2020. On the basis of this exception, several sports clubs were registered in the electronic register and were subsidised. But now, with your new Ministerial Decision with FEK 15.93/2021, the 22-11-2019 limit is 22-2019, where the presence of a lawyer was necessary, which did not know many unions, which the Ministry is aware of very well and while a process of setting up the registry for the year 2020 was ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u14	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President. This decision, therefore, objectively leads to the exclusion of many sports clubs and the non-registration of dozens of others in the online register with athletic recognition for the year 2021, perhaps the end of amateur sport. We believe that you should, on the one hand, take this provision of the ministerial decision on the procedure for verifying the applications of sports clubs for their registration in the special register and, on the other hand, proceed with an extension of the deadline for the submission of applications. But why do you put these constant stumbling blocks? The ultimate goal - we tell you - is the dismantling of sports clubs and their throwing out of sport...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u16	Please, you've been in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u17	...so that the road opens up in a whole market waiting to exploit the activities of the child after school for its physical exercise. The world will react, react, it is displeased, as many verbalist proclamations as you do and claim bravely an increase in the regular grant of sports federations, based on the real needs for the development of sport. That's the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u18	I would ask everyone to keep the time. There are too many topical questions today, there are twenty-seven. I would therefore appeal to everyone as far as possible to keep the time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I understand the need for my colleague to ask for more time, and he is able to justify the unjustified. Really, Mr. Colleague, is everything I said before in my prototype? And I spoke, look, with information, with laws, provisions and applications, i.e. mainly with results. Is that all that you're describing? And because you don't have any evidence to say, you open the vendal, uh, and whoever Harry gets, you're gonna win something. It's cheap populism, what you're doing. You have no evidence, you do not have any arguments and, above all, you do not have any policy specific to amateur sport, beyond the wishes and fine words you are trying to repeat in your way. We are not resting on the important measures we have taken so far, but we are continuing. I'll be sorry, but that's okay. Every day we step up efforts with hard work and with excellent cooperation with the officials of the Ministry and the sports family we create the preconditions for the uninterrupted rebooting of sport. We support amateur sport and form the sports of the 21st century. Let's go see what we've done for amateur sport in this time, Mr. Colleague. Since May 11, there has been a thousand four hundred three rightful amateur sports clubs, the second phase of financial aid - special-purpose compensation totalling EUR 3,596 000 - verbatimism is he, or elements and figures and amounts? - and all this to deal with the consequences of pandemic. The right of amateur associations to financial aid - special purpose compensation (b) were those which completed the application for registration with a delay in the electronic register until 31/12-2020. Therefore, including the first phase of payment, where EUR 9.672 000 was distributed to three thousand four hundred eight unions, the amount of financial aid - special purpose compensation to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, which is first allocated directly from the state to the unions, totals four thousand six hundred ninety-sixty-one unions amounting to EUR 13,268.500. I would like to make it clear here that the register platform remains open. More and more unions are being enrolled, right, that is to say, in the field of sport, which you have refused and rejected, if you remember well, or forgotten diligently. Associations may normally submit their applications and, of course, unions registered in the electronic registers in the year 2020 shall be obliged to update the required data by 31 August 2021. And now I'm going to be sad. I know, but unfortunately for you - thankfully for the athletic family - we continue our work and what we say we do. So let me refer to the financing of sports teams from the revenues generated by the new way of taxing gambling, another part of our ministry that you have never seen and which you have never mentioned, and which you have certainly never mentioned and have chosen not to mention nor even to remember. We have, my dear fellow Member, for your information to reach the Sports Secretariat-General 60% of the State's additional revenue, created by the new method of taxation, in order to make sport groups available to them and 50% of it distributed to professional sport and the remaining 50% to amateur sport. As aid from the pandemic's effects, advances have already been made to professional sport of EUR 29,200,000 and by the end of the summer, we believe that more unions will have been entered in the register so that we can plan emergency funding - in other words - for amateur clubs, legal and active. And we're not staying there, dear colleague. In the bill that we bring to Parliament in the next few days, we are voting for a provision for amateur athletes. What does this provision really mean? It is stated that athletes who are struggling in clubs participating in amateur national sports clubs may sign a private sports service agreement in this regard, which will be submitted to relevant federations. Let me clarify for those who do not know that these accusations are still considered amateur and we are considering adding more. If economic exchanges, for example, amount to a minimum of EUR 3 000, there is an obligation for the athlete to be insured under the special 1% contribution scheme. In simple terms, with this arrangement, the now hundreds of amateur athletes - but, in name, only amateurs, as this activity is the main activity for most of them, they themselves live and their families - can have insurance cover if this provision was and could have been included in the protection measures from the effects of pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u20	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. We support amateur athletes with actions and not with words and wishes. To repeat, my dear colleague, you and your party hope to vote in favour of this provision when it comes to plenary. I hope so, we'll be here. So we're not talking about wishing and pointless announcements. We support amateur unions. We support our athletes. We support the sporting family as a whole. We are here to hear positive proposals and if, yes, they can be implemented, you can be sure that we will do everything as government to do so. The athletic family wants love, consistency and above all stability. What we are talking about is doing things and what the current government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u22	We continue with the first with number 760/14-5-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Pavlos Polakis to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Structuring justice in the Prefecture of Chania". The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for two minutes. If you want to take the mask off, please come to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I decided to ask you the question today, and I'm glad you'll answer it, because I had two meetings in Chania with the Bar Association a few days ago and yesterday with the club of judges. There's a racing request. In this part, I did not deal with it during the previous parliamentary term. He was the friend and colleague and deceased now, Antonis Balomemakis, who dealt with the matter. He had the contact with your colleagues there. The question is: There is a great problem with the administration of justice in Chania. In an old preserved building there are too many services, courtroom, appeal, judiciary, juvenile service, courthouse, etc. There are very few hearing rooms. The building's old. He needs repairs, current repairs. Officials accumulate together with archives in the same premises and there is really a great deal of problem in the administration of justice. The legal association hires two houses out to keep part of the file, and at the moment there is the following and a political decision is needed, because that is all political. It has been given by Law 4646/2019 and Article 83, granted to the Fund for the Financing of Judges, the building of the old judiciary, which is very close to the existing courts buildings in Chania, fully owned to cover the housing needs of the Courts of Chania. We know that there is a budget study of around EUR 150,000 in order to be able to welcome at least part of the archive and some services. This will reduce and relieve the situation in the central building, which - I repeat - needs repair at some points in order to be able to obtain better and more decent terms for workers, lawyers, judges, judges and people who come to Chania. And what I first say to you - and for the staff, I will say two things later - is to make the political decision to be financed, to be built, because from the building remains, and so - since 2013, it has been closed - it is also an outbreak of contamination in the urban fabric. That's first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u24	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, first of all, it is a pleasure - I would say - to highlight through parliamentary scrutiny issues which I think are on the same side and which may not give rise to any contradictions, since what you have said is a reality. That's the reality. Indeed, since I was in the position of the Minister of Justice, I have had to deal with a series of issues and outstandings relating to building infrastructure, one of which - I would say, now, a characteristic case - was the case of Chania. And I'm saying it very honestly. After all, I think you know that, because at the initiative of a previous Minister of Justice of your own government, Mr Kontonis, the solution you described in your question - that is the reality - that is, the building of the former judiciary, so that the records of the judicial services can be transferred there, so that space can be released. You know that, too, this alone is not an adequate solution. You know that's reality. Perhaps it would give a sort of spatial relief, but under no circumstances would the last solution be a permanent solution. So, in order to solve any relevant needs of the judiciary of Chania, we decided on 12 March by means of the competent Interministerial Committee of PPP the building of a New Judiciary in Chania. And this, perhaps, in the context of public dialogue within Parliament, has not been mentioned, it is the first time that we have been discussing it here. And I would tell you that according to a document from the Department of Building Infrastructure of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the service proceeds directly to the preparation of the works for the call of interest for the first phase of the competitive process for the above PPP project. Of course, there are some problems that we are trying to solve - I want to be honest with you - with regard to the plot, with various issues that have arisen in the course. I would, however, essentially like to show you the clear political will of the government to address a huge problem regarding the judiciary of the city of Chania. And I realise that you may be wondering what is going to happen to the courts, where we might be going through this whole debate, which began in the days of the previous government, and of course, it is going on to date. This amount of EUR 150,000 is also very well known that in no case can it look capable to meet the needs of the repair. That's the reality. This is why, since 2018, the Department of Technical Service of the Ministry of Justice has requested that the necessary steps be taken to convert the prison to a archive site, because they knew that these EUR 150,000 would not be enough, while asking for information on the timetable for the implementation of the work and the final cost of repair-conversion, in order to be financed by the FIFG, which, in the meantime, you rightly said so, took the ownership of the building. That's the truth. What I can tell you is that, as both the FAO and the Directorate-General for Finance inform me, there has been no request from the CFP for this, but do not rush to say anything about it. And I just want us to stay in the economy of the debate, if you like, I'll testify to it in the Minutes. I will tell you that all the necessary steps have been taken on the part of the CFP and with the assistance of local bodies. The architectural study shall not be completed until the local orbital project is approved by the relevant building. That is why we have not actually made progress in funding, and of course, in projects which you rightly point out should be carried out in the direction at least of the use of the old prisons building, so that the record of court cases can be housed there. That is what I have to tell you so far about this question. I can come back - and, of course, we will also discuss the second part of your question in my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u27	Mr Minister, thank you, first of all, for the answer. You know what? Because we sat on the same chairs, enemy of goodness is the best. I accept that, and I disagree with the PPPs. You know, today to start, there's gonna be a building at best of cases after five, six, seven years. We've lived it, and if we don't get mixed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u28	After five years!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u29	I say, let's say I was a neoliberal, and I wanted the PPPs and everything and the rest, after seven years we'd see a building. Is that right? Until now we've got people in there with all the poorness. Listen: 150,000 euros I saw it. Listen to me, because I have also made mayor: For five hundred square blocks of an existing building - an existing building, not to rise - a repair cost between 300 euros and 400 euros the square is dignified and very satisfying to bring the building into a state that can work for the archive area or possibly for some services. The remark on the issue of urban planning has been accepted, and we will be moving that direction. And the CFP, because we had intense cooperation, wants a flogging in order to move forward, has also undertaken many projects. Others are running, elsewhere he is stalling, but I think if the cause is that there is no other designation because of the town plan, I will take the initiative with the Municipality of Chania in order to move this thing forward in order to speed up history, because it is necessary and until the PPP is done, we will do that. I tell you I will, I will take the initiative for this thing and for the Municipality of Chania. Now, there is one issue that was raised very strongly by the judicial officers, Minister, that there is a strong question of subscribing the services. In particular, they told me that the Court of First Instance of Chania operates with seven empty organic secretaries, who will soon be made nine as a result of a transfer and retirement. The Prosecutor's Office of Primary Chania operates with six empty organic secretaries, five curators and one typing officer. Each secretary shall be responsible for two and three heirs in order to respond as far as possible. They ask for new posts to be announced and for you to directly appoint successful participants of the IP, TE and PP sectors of the current successful panels of competitions 2K/2017 and 8K/2017, as was done in most judicial services of other counties of the country through a redistribution decision that you need to get. And also, the request from lawyers is that there should be cover for the third president's present position in the Court of First Instance of Chania - because he has a very large number of work in the first instance - in order to speed up the trial of cases. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u31	Mr Colleague, as I mentioned in my prototype, it is somewhat and personally my bet that the judiciary should be modernised and I tell you this very sincerely. But it is not right - and I say it because you will understand it too - to resort to a rough solution, especially to the question of the use of the former judiciary. After all, we have also been asked by the directors of the Court of Appeal of Crete and the Court of First Instance of Chania, namely not to take advantage of the property, but - if possible - to make modern facilities. That's what we're doing. We chose the second one. And I'm coming back to what I was telling you all the time you had your second-guess. I would also ask for your assistance in this direction in the sense that, in order to complete the construction, we will have to finish the new modal plan so that there can also be a genuinely acceptable plan. That's a big question. You understand, you are a Member of the Chania Prefecture, like other colleagues, that you need to see all the issues that are actually going on as matters of a local society. And that falls under them. As far as the second question you raised is concerned, you know that I personally respect the institutions of justice and try to be absolutely consistent with this approach. And we could not function differently, because it is the Constitution itself and the implementing laws which actually define the relationship between executive and judiciary. The Minister of Justice is confined to a supervisory and organisational role, without any jurisdiction in the purely judicial work of justice. In accordance with the provisions in force - I do not want to mention articles - the distribution of the organic positions of judges is based on the number of cases and the movement of judges by a Presidential Decree, after consulting the judges of the political criminal courts, the President and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who take into account the reasoned suggestions made by judges who run the courts and prosecutors. In addition, a list of operations shall be drawn up indicating the organic and distributed positions of each court of First Instance. Therefore, if needs arise, this is judged by the Marios Ice and the Supreme Judicial Council for Civil and Criminal Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u32	I asked about your empty organic positions!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u33	I'll cover for you in a little while with what I'll tell you. This is, in fact, the sole responsibility of the positions of the judiciaries of political and criminal justice, of course, on the basis of established needs. On 18 May - and I will give you, if you wish, the specific document to take account of you - this year, the Marios Ice for the Court of First Instance of Chania allocates two organic positions of President of the Court of First Instance, ten organic positions of primary and two organic seats of judges which have all been covered, apart from one position of the court. At the same time, taking into account all the work of the Court of First Instance of Chania for 2020, it appears that the Court of Justice is equivalent to existing organic positions and does not exceed the average of the material of the other prima facie courts of the country, so that another President of the Court of First Instance, as requested, is required. I do not hide from you that this request for which you are now asking me was a request that has also been transferred to me by the respective lawyers, from the local community, etc. I also do not hide from you that it was a personal question to the leadership of the Ice Bay to the supreme judiciary. However, these are all determined on the basis of certain rules that you know that at least for the area of independent justice they are a specific reference and that reason. What I want to assure you is that any effort is being made to respond not only to the role of our operation, but above all to create a real positive footprint in the local community of Chania, thus showing and supporting, and with the planning, and by building a new judiciary that every place, every city in the Greek region, is really entitled to enjoy decent judicial functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too, Minister. And now we move on to the next one, in the ninth with number 764-17-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'New opacity for the Gender CYST - Epidemiological study is missing, the study on groundwater pollution'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, something really is going on in the Race. We have an epidemiological study that should have been completed for sixty years. Finally it came out three and a half years ago, due to the urgency of the issue in the largest dump of the Balkans and possibly of Europe. The scholars were given two years to complete the study. Two extensions were given. The contract said it could be extended up to a year longer because of the urgency. This time ended in December 2020. The last extension granted expired in April 2020. There is no other extension to ‘TRAINING’. Nowhere does the contract appear to be amended in order to allow for another extension. It also ended in December the maximum extension that could potentially give a scholar to date, almost a year after the last extension and a half after the end of the legal right to any other extension, there is not this study on public health of the inhabitants of the region of western Athens, of the West Attica and finally of Athens. That is why we want to know where this study is going. The second is that there has also been a study by environmental inspectors not for the health of residents now, but for groundwater. On the basis of this study, based on the Aarhus Convention, once there is environmental information in the hands of a public body, the body is obliged to give it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I will submit to the minutes the e-mail from the citizens to the Environment Inspectorate on 5 May, the 'Western Front', the study and the region refuse to give it to them, environmental inspectors. And we're really wondering what's going on here. We also had a study of the "Asprofos" for land and for two years he stayed in the mayor's drawer and only after my own intervention along with the "Western Front" to the Citizens' Counselor and asked for it by parliamentary control through the ACP, was published. You also ignore the epidemiological study. We still don't know where he is. Water study by inspectors is classified information for inspectors. What's going on anyway? Of course, I will conclude by saying that, in reply to my complaint to environmental inspectors, the inspectors formally state that the conditions, conditions for authorisation of Gender HYTA and the factory there, of the EMAK, should be changed as far as odors are concerned. And because people are suffering, they want you to tell us what you're going to do about it. The operation of the Gender HYST violates any sanitary condition in four elements, four topics, on earth, air, humans and water. We call on you to close and do not extend it, taking into account, of course, the studies which, unfortunately, are being concealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am aware of your sensitivity to environmental issues, but also to solid waste management, because I know and have answered many of the questions on these issues. With regard to the first, scientific study on the measurement of environmental parameters relating to the risk involved, this will be seen from its results, both on environmental issues and on public health issues. I would like to tell you that this study, as you rightly said, has been signed since December 2017. This study has been requested by the Special Inter-State Association of Attica Law, as you know, and it concerns the Western Attica. To date, no findings and results have been issued, so that we all know what the evidence is and do as appropriate. If you ask me, I will immediately tell you that delay is unacceptable. It is not allowed for so many years, three and a half years, not to know the results of this investigation. But it's not our thing, and I'm not ready and I don't have any evidence to give you answers. The link, which I mentioned before, promised that it will soon have the results, will be made public and will, of course, communicate them to all the relevant departments, as well as to the services of the Ministry of the Environment, because we do not have them at this time, in order to do what is necessary, according to the results of the measurements. This is about the delay you referred to in the scientific study and its results. You know, indeed, that environmental inspectors have also gone after an appeal order to check the next piece to which you referred as well in the case of liquid waste or strings that exist from treatment in the area. There's evidence in progress. However, I do not have them here and they have not yet been given. They are invoked, because it is under way, and because it is a sensitive issue in the development of judicial investigation. When I get the results, of course, and I will contact you at the outset, agreeing that every issue that needs to be investigated and that the responsible person must be directly responsible, and in any event not with such delays, to inform and take action. The rest relate to operation as temporary measures. Because the process of integrated management for solid waste, as you know, is evolving in the Attica Lecade, in order to stop this image from being in the Globe. I have said so to another meeting of ours that this space does not look after anyone and as soon as possible this situation must be stopped. That's introductory terms. I'll fill in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u38	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you say it is in the hands of the ECHR to demand the study, but the Ministry is preparing to proceed with a new environmental permit for the Gender HYTA. Will the Ministry proceed with an authorisation without having the epidemiological study in his hands? Is it possible for you to proceed to licensing, when what study has been done about the site really shows a huge environmental and health crime going on over there? And without these necessary details, will you proceed to an authorisation? This is a purely competent matter for you and I would like you to answer me. With regard to the study in the Ministry's hands, this has been completed and there is a clear reference to me to the existence of this study, and even there is the public document, in 27786 on 23-321, to inform the environmental audit findings about groundwater. There is a leak of this document, which your services do not publish. In each drill there is huge excess of heavy metals and substances that are harmful to human health: Ammonium, exceeding up to a hundred sixty-nine times. Nitrites, up to five times. Chlorine, three and a half times. Nickel, up to thirteen times. Aluminium up to thirty-three times and so on I am tabling this report in the Minutes as well as the answer by environmental inspectors, asking the political leadership to review the environmental conditions regarding odors. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the question is not just technical. It is very clear to the public that here there is an attempt to hide from all sides and from the mayor for so long with the study of 'Asprofos'. Once the surviving study of Asprofos came out, everyone fell to say she was unreliable. Because he showed the bad situation. Now with the epidemiological one is missing from the region as well. We've got the groundwater study with all the grim evidence. And she seems to be missing from the Ministry's side. Of course, environmental inspectors are answering that the conditions for race odors should also be changed. In fact, a tragic situation, a concealment, a covert cover, for the perpetuation of the Gender HYTA. But it can't go on. Let me remind you that we also had Naples. Over there, however, in cooperation with the public services in the end, people have proved what they have been denounced for so long, that, apart from the consequences of poor management and disposal of waste, which, as we know, is taking place in Naples, it is enormous and directly touching human health, even the fertility, even the sustainability of embryos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u40	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Mr Colleagues, first of all I will give you the answers given to me by the Special Equality Association of Attica - again, it is not all the data and it is not the results of the investigation - to see where it is. They have invoked COVID and the conditions that they have not completed the scientific research we are discussing today. But I too expect the results with you and with them to do what we have to do. So I reserve the results for the further. As far as the substance of the debate is concerned, I will extend it a little, sixty years, the Gender HYTA! And you delay me over time in finding a definitive, safe solution that will protect the environment and of course take into account all the parameters and all the tools of modern ones. And we are not going to go to discover here in Greece systems that operate for years around the world and in Europe and in practice have been shown to be effective and safe. I've said it another time. We accepted - and closed our eyes - trash bulk everywhere and when we went to an organised, controlled, standardized, and space monitoring, the reactions began. In order to close - and close - the Gender HIT should have carried out integrated management interventions in the Lefkanovedi. And one, which is safe, will close the other which has so many problems as the ones we are discussing today. So the bet for all of us is to complete the procedures and apply rules and techniques that are certain to the fullest extent, taking technologies and opportunities from others that operate such units to finally bring them home. And you know that such integrated management units are developing in many regions in Greece to stop this image and shame, I will say, which we have tolerated over the years. Because it is important to mention the problems and the outbreaks of danger. It is, however, more important to find a way out and a solution, each taking responsibility for solving the problem. We are in a transition from an old situation, with great problems, which have accumulated, to waste management. But, at the same time, we have this picture to stop by making decisions. A number of integrated waste management units are being developed throughout Greece, including Attica. Bet we all have to win it together, because they don't fit between us and horizontal controversies without leading to a result. These are the remarks I wish to make, on the occasion of the debate that you have caused today, to raise a serious issue which I have at the same time raised as regards its solution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too, Minister. The next question is the first with No. 759/14-5-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens Sector SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incomprehensible delay in the procedures for completing the concession of the Eleftherios Venizelos Park (Airma) to the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios. Mr Balafa, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today we are discussing this timely question concerning the very long delay, incomprehensible, I would say, in the completion of the work on the part of the Ministry and state in general, on the renewal of the Eleftherios Venizelos Park, the well-known Arma park in the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios. How did we get to today's timely question? On 2 October 2020, Minister, we had debated a timely question with the same subject. We were already talking about a delay of a year and a half already. The then Deputy Minister of State, Dimitrios Economou, has strongly admitted that we are right and said that "the delay is excessive and unacceptable and jeopardises the creation of this site", he said: "I personally promise that by 15 October we will make the final check. Immediately thereafter he will leave the Council of State." These are on 2 October 2020. It is still about eight months and the whole process has not yet been completed. I can assure you that everyone - including us - is asking whether it is only a delay or an attempt to transfer to the Greek bells or to cancel the refreshment of the park. I would remind you that the concession to the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios was decided upon in a government of SYRIZA and announced in July 2016 by the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. Last development, Minister, in the past few weeks, while the statement of our timely question has been made, there has been information - I wish you accurately, I stress - that the modification of the rhetoric has been signed and that it has been promoted in the Council of State, in order to have a Presidential Decree, etc. We ask you: First, do you know and can you confirm the latest information? Secondly, can you commit to the time of the whole process at last? In addition to that, we are asking why the municipality will use the existing financial instruments - basically in this case the Tritsis Programme for the Park - and the submission of applications expires on 31 May, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikolaos Tagaras will answer that question as well. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u45	Mr Colleague, thank you for your question. I certainly do not feel glad that you are coming back to an issue in which - you are absolutely right - there is a delay. I am aware of the fact that I have succeeded the previous colleague, Mr Economou, and I would like to provide a brief comprehensive and concrete answer on how he has evolved, where he is today and when he ends, what you have also referred to. I fully agree with the objective of the issue you mentioned, namely the review of the approved orbital plan of the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios in the single public area of green space 909-923 and the definition of the use of land, terms and restrictions of building it, enclosed by the streets of Wireless, Hopedus, Fighters of Polytechnic, Friendship and Messinia. For all this, because you referred to my previous colleague I succeeded, I would like to tell you that on 19 October 2020 the Presidential Decree was sent to the Council of State. Then Mr. Economou said for ten days. I remember it and I've taken the Minutes of your previous question. The Council of State on November 23, 2020, with its No. 204/20 Opinion, replied that it wanted some scaffolding, corrections, etc. That decision. On December 8, 2020, the opinion came to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, and all of these elements were cleaned up which it was referring to and started a circle of signatures. In my own office - I had taken over since the beginning of January - it came on 22 January and on 2 February I signed the Presidential Decree, which I also have with me - is what I am showing you - in response to the remarks made in response to the opinions of the Council of State. There was a slight delay in going back to the Council of State. It is because, on the Council's top position, additional information was requested with the submission of the Presidential Decrees, as well as explanatory reports for the first time. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Secretary-General's speaking time.]] Because I do not want to take the time, but I would like to see that I can, Mr President, finish with Mr Balafas having the whole picture, let me have less time in my denture. An explanatory statement has been prepared. We are talking about fifty President-in-Office decrees that we had to sign and draw up recitals to be retabled. On 13 April 2021 the Presidential Decree was forwarded to the Council of State, adapted to the opinion on security. We expect the answer - an opinion from the Council of State. I say to you - and take it completely as I express it - that from us - and as far as I am concerned - we can speed up procedures and allow them to become as far as possible. As soon as the opinion comes back from the Council of State, the circle of signatures will immediately run for the adoption of the Presidential Decree and you will have complete and complete information as soon as it arrives. And for the end, as far as I am concerned, it is only a matter of time. I explained where he is. You will not have the answer, but the signature for the solution to the problem, which I also agree with you. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Mr Balafa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. There is recognition on the part of the Minister - and that is to his credit - that there is a delay. And you know what, I have no purpose, I'm not interested in making any final criticisms in any state, Minister. In order to have substance and parliamentary control to say that when you inform citizens, the municipality, the public and say 'good, so long, what's going on, my child?', we all pay it, they lose confidence in politics in general, and that's negative for all of us. That is why I say that, regardless of who is today's government or opposition, some things have to go faster and some timetables have to be met, so that the public feels that the state is counting on it. And I say that regardless of any choice of criticism. I assure you. I remain convinced that you will do all you can - I am sure - to speed up the process because the delay is really too great, too great. I don't want to say anything else. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I have made a commitment to my prototype, and now, in agreeing fully with you, that all things need to be better running so that we can have creative results first, solve old unfinishedities and problems and organise what is happening, get better and, of course, faster. And I have given you my personal promise that you will be aware of all the steps, as soon as the opinion comes from the Council of State, but also for the circle of signatures - of course the signatories and the President of the Republic - and as soon as the FEK is published, I will also send you the Globe of the Government, so that you can have a complete and secure answer to a matter that I respect and agree with you, to overcome any inconveniences of the past. You know that in terms of planning - because the plans and studies that we are discussing are either local urban plans or implementation plans, old rhetoric projects, it is a demanded time-consuming and we have been delayed - many projects that are not projects, but all the projects that are or will be made depend on these projects. So the speed, security and integrated information about what is allowed and forbidden, especially in the off-project construction, but also in the in-project, are crucially needed for all of us. I thank you for your question, and again I say that we will be in cooperation so that what I have given my word to keep it and at the end of the procedure the Government's newspaper leaf will give you the problem we are discussing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too, Minister. Before entering the debate on the next topical question, I would like to make it clear to the House that the fifth under number 752/10-5-2021 of the first cycle of the Hercules MP of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Fourt for fourteen years at the bottom of Santorini, the 'SEA DIAMOND', is not being discussed, after consultation of the honourable Member and the Minister. Also, the second question under number 758/13-5-2021 of the Second Chamber of Deputies B2' West Athens Department of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Insufficient planning for the restarting of the dramatic schools" will not be debated as a result of Mrs. We are now entering the debate of the next timely question, the twelfth under number 775-17-2021, the second time question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Finance, on "Problems of Workers in the Greek Vehicle Industry S.A., which is in special liquidation". The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Theodoros Skakakis. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the course of divestment and dismantling of the Greek Vehicle Industry, which all the previous governments - ND, PASOK, SYRIZA - ANEL, along with the troika, the Central Bank, the IMF - is taking place in accordance with the process of special liquidation of the company, which is in its final phase. On 26 April the special liquidator and the last employees of "ELVO" were made redundant, i.e. without compensation, while, after long struggles by former workers at "ELVO", an amendment was adopted in the middle of March in the House in which the Ministry of Finance has undertaken to repay compensation to "ELVO" workers who have left for retirement in the last five years without compensation. It should also be noted that for more than a hundred ELVO employees, those who have already been transferred to other organisations, as well as those who have been made redundant and who have been unpaid, are still pending the safeguarding of their marks from December 2019 until the end of their contract. In view of the above, you ask, Minister, what action is your Government intending to take in order to pay the full compensation for the redundancy of the last employees of ELVO, to pass on to the "new ELVO", with full recognition of wage and labour rights and their pre-service, as recognised in "ELVO S.A." and to guarantee the trademarks of the former employees of ELVO S.A. from December 2019 until the end of their contract of employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. In reply to the honourable Member's question, I would like to begin with a small history. ‘ELVO’ is a history-based company in the field of vehicle construction, but which failed on its way, hence it became a special liquidation in 2014. Then there was an effort with several different competitions to start again. In fact, there were two public bids, one in April 2017 and one in August 2017. In February 2019, another free-trade competition took place. None of them finished. In March 2020, the special clearer reopened a public invitation to tender for divestment of the company’s main assets, with a free negotiation. The term of the tender, as a result of the company's activity, enabled the public authorities to participate in the new company at 21%. After six years of failed efforts, ELVO is finally transferred to the new owner and a new era for its productive operation begins. The Greek State through the Ministry of Finance all the years of the liquidation supported the employees, subsidising the company and giving them the right to transfer to other positions in the public sector. This right was used by the vast majority of workers, with the exception of few exceptions, who refused to take advantage of these provisions. We are therefore not talking about the whole of the workers. We are talking about these people who have had the opportunity to continue their work unintentionally and have chosen to remain in a public company without production. Note that the Ministry of Finance, wanting to support the people who left the company for retirement reasons in the previous years, undertook to pay their own allowances. There were few remaining, about ten, who refused to provide for the law to translate and work into another position and the existing complaint law was implemented without harm. I would like to make a more general comment here. It succeeded in the Ministry of Finance and the Government completing this process, which was urging for six years, to reinstate the company to operate - not only for northern Greece, but overall for the economy - and to take measures for all workers. He even covered those who left with retirement in the previous years. But the Greek state is not an invisible coral. The Greek State is the other taxpayers, all the taxpayers together. We therefore have to bear in mind that whenever someone is paid by the public, there is a person who pays him. I would like to say, because the JRC usually in this remark says 'to get money out of the capital', that, if you look at the revenues of the state, there is VAT, there are all other taxes, which are also the binding volume of the state's revenues, which are paid by ordinary daily people. You can't solve all the problems just because you're saying I'm going to tax the capital. The solution to the problems is the ones that pay the state to always have a sense of reason, such as the taxation we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u55	Funny, Minister, but I think you're turning a little backwards on reality and putting the blame on those who produce wealth. The responsibility lies with the government, and on the basis of what you said, you privatise ELVO in a period of dominance over our country's sovereign rights by increasing the economic bleeding of our country, with imports of extremely expensive materials and that for NATO's needs, you lead it to be further dependent on the sector's monopolies in the critical area of defence industry. And in the case of ELVO, the national task for the public interest that leads you is the profits of a handful of business groups, literally throwing out the possibilities of industry arising from the experienced technical and scientific workforce to meet wider needs in defence, transport and elsewhere. "ELVO", even with state control, was disguised by business groups, who, by creating debts, gained intact riches only from the work of those who are now flying on the road. With the liquidation, which you have all run together, PASOK, SYRIZA - who already fooled of stopping it - you give this industrial jewelry to Israeli interests, free of debts, which you charge to our people, free and free of rights workers. To get rid of them, you transferred them. With the people in the movement, PASKE, PAKE and SYRIZA, who played the role of the transfer dealer, you rekindled the racing attitudes to incite this blackmail. Some of them, in the anti-French neck against their labour rights, insurance, pensions, have chosen to insist on trying to stay in industry's activity, in the new form. Now what are you doing? Do you avenge them? You give the Israeli interests two hundred thousand square meters in the Sindu industrial area, building facilities, equipment and intellectual and industrial property rights and any other industrial and intellectual property rights, such as know-how, designs, IT licenses and patents that the company has enlisted. You give, Minister, in other words all the things that you have built with your hands and their brains, these workers who are expelled, who could with thousands of others, in addition, develop ELVO's capabilities for the construction of military vehicles, special-type vehicles, which our country needs for its defence, but also political vehicles so as not to buy expensively the "shoes" that you brought with leasing for the transport needs in Athens and Thessaloniki. You are also giving them a dowry, Minister, with a vehicle replacement program for the Greek Army and the Police. We believe, Minister, that those to whom this industrial jewellery is due, its construction, its operation, what it can provide, is outrageous to prosecute them with such losses on employment and insurance rights. In our view, no debate is acceptable to anything other than the fulfilment of their demands. We consider that they are determined and will not surrender their rights. But also, in the light of developments in "ELVO", it must be understood, as directly as possible, to our people that it has clearly in front of it everything it needs to meet both its needs and its defence and, in general, the production of products and services, which are worthy of science and technology capabilities. For us they're all his, and he's still deciding to put them at the Ministry's service. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that we have a difficulty in discussing the same subject as the Communist Party of Greece. I have a question, a mystery. If all you described about industrial jewelry is real, why did no one ever find themselves on the planet of interest? I have this real question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the first with number 400/484/9-9-22021 question and request that Parliament's 2nd Pireaus of SYRIZA submit documents on the subject: 'Would the Government protect the public interest? Which is, in accordance with the compliance control system for the contractual obligations of the ‘ASA S.A.’. - 'COSCO', all its documentation - to date - implementation of eleven compulsory investments, reference costs 293.773.800 euros and participation of 'PA' of EUR 162.951.352'. Mr Ragosisi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. This question was finally tabled as timely, Mr Minister, Mr Pylakakis, because it was not answered, when he was submitted three months ago to the Minister of Finance, that is to say, to you, and for which we should first of all clarify this question: We are in favour of direct foreign investment, small and large. We are in favour of companies that invest and, of course, we are also in favour of the success of these investments. In this sense, yes - and we have proved this - we are and were in favour of the investment of 'COSCO' in the port of Piraeus. But we are in favour of 'COSCO', Mr. Poutlakakis, which will add value to the real economy, to the real economy of Piraeus, to ship repair, and will not take value from all of these cases in the real economy. We are in favour of a 'COSCO' that will win along with the real economy of Piraeus, which will not win at the expense of the real Piraeus economy, which will not win at the expense of ship repair, which will not win at the expense of the workers. We are not in favour of a 'COSCO' that wants to kill the ship repair. We are not in favour of a 'COSCO' that does not respect the environment. We are not in favour of a 'COSCO' which promotes monopolies in the management of the operational waste of ships with the victim of shipping - and not just. We are not in favour of a 'COSCO' which is in the hands of a specific Greek administration, which has become - and I stress this - an office of rhetorical recruitment by specific ministers and MPs of the New Democracy. We are not in favour of a 'COSCO' which does not comply with its essential contractual obligations, as they arise from the depositary of the public interest, which is not in this case the contract of concession. See here photos of the situation in which the infrastructures are located at the port of Piraeus, where a large number of businesses operate, work thousands of workers and of course also trade hundreds of companies around the port of Piraeus. These pictures I'll testify, Mr. Dogs, to get them and evaluate them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ragussa, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are also not in favour of 'COSCO', which, at the most, has remained before the end of its contractual obligation - has not completed not the compulsory investments it should have made and for which it has committed five years ago, but is far too far from being able to implement them. The specific list showing the specific, very low rates of fulfilment of these mandatory contractual investments has been disclosed. In this sense, therefore, and given all of these, two are the questions, Mr Pylakakis: The first is whether, under the concession agreement, the criminal clauses envisaged in the case of the company will be imposed on the grounds of the fact that the compulsory investments required by the PPA - 'COSCO' have not been carried out within five years. Secondly, if the transfer of 16% of the shares in the PPA is suspended on this basis, since, I repeat, the fact that the contractual obligations of 'COSCO' have not been implemented, and this has basically happened with its own fault. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I must tell you that the issue of contracts between the public and the private sector in various cases is not a very easy issue and, if you like, it is not an easy one, because the contracts provide for obligations on both sides, they have legal and other interpretations. In this case, we do have a contract ratified on 24 June 2016 by the previous government with ‘COSCO’. We do have delays in the performance of the contract. I have heard Mr Ragosi say that the 'COSCO' is basically responsible. I do not have a detailed knowledge of the contract, it is not a matter of the ministers, but it is a matter of both the services and the legal advisers, because these conventions are very complicated. And here is the question of how to manage in the next two months until we get to date. The government's view is that it is more in the country's interest to seek, to the extent that this can always be achieved, solutions between the parties, in good faith and dialogue. It is not always easy, but it is preferable that good faith and dialogue should be exhausted and that we should not automatically or too quickly recourse to arbitration or other procedures. Because the public has a bitter experience of such arbitrations and procedures, in which it has not been successful. This is a time-consuming responsibility for the governments. In other words, it does not play any role if a process that went wrong in 2017 or 2020 - I do not want to be wrong in an issue that I have no analytical knowledge - will lead to a failure. No one will find out if the Minister or the Minister had no responsibility for failure. At the end of the failure of such a negotiation, the taxpayer will be asked to pay it. So we need to run out of time and the dialogue procedures, and then we will see what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u63	Minister, I must admit that I did not expect such an answer for this reason: Because no one is denying that any government is doing well, so yours too, in so far as you have said, good faith and in the context of a genuine dialogue with an investor to find solutions to the problems that may have arisen. But it's not about that. This is whether the Greek State will transfer 16% of the PPA and not get something. If he will transfer his own, very specific and very important asset to an investor, who has been indebted to him so far shows that his actions and actions are not compatible for the entire five years now with his contractual obligations. I am talking about this administration - and I would like to stress it for the second time - of the 'PO' - 'COSCO'. So, in this sense, the government has no margin, Mr. Psulakakis, nor will the Greek taxpayer pay anything if he doesn't get the extra 16%. On the contrary, it will win because it will force COSCO and PPA to make investments, i.e. to "locate" the money in favour of the Greek taxpayer, in favour of the real economy, of the ship repair workers. It has signed and pledged to invest in the port of Piraeus the colostrum called 'COSCO'. The answers which already exist in our hands, Mr. Dogloukakis, and Mr. Stakoura two months ago, and from the TEAD, leave no room for the government not to implement the concession agreement. I beg your pardon very much, you may not personally know this in depth, as you have said, and it is understandable, since you are not the Minister for Maritime Affairs. I am warning you, however, to know that we have discussed them within the Greek Parliament, that it is a committing operation, that you will, to say it better, be subject to breach of duty and infidelity if you do not apply the concession agreement. The concession agreement expressly provides for a specific, eleven-year, compulsory investment. These must be completed within five years. It is also expressly predicted that if this does not happen, not only does the 'COSCO' take 16%, but it will also pay criminal clauses. So the negotiation, discussion, dialogue, good faith, Mr. Psilakakis, does not have the object of giving them 16%, but it is how the Greek public will keep 16% while the "COSCO" and the specific investor and that administration do not do what it owes them today, in accordance with their contractual obligations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u65	The negotiations, Mr Ragosi, are the subject of the Convention. Always this object. No government can only apply the conventions. And this is our pursuit. Now, about how this convention is to be implemented, we're going to be a little patient, because there's time to have an additional debate with 'COSCO', you're going to find out. The opposition cannot prejudge what the government will do until the government does it or puts it in intentions it does not have. I just want to point out that this convention has not been nurtured out of nowhere. This is a contract that has been in existence since 2016. The 'COSCO' obligations have started to run since then. That is why and how we will achieve the best possible result is something that we will discuss in Parliament when it comes to the time when the government announces its decisions. Mr. Raguss asks for a document statement. I have an obligation to deliver these documents to him. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skeylakakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. We are going to the fifth, with reference to the cycle of petitions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The request by the airline "IFLY S.A." for a grant to deal with the consequences of the COVID -19" pandemic. This question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skylakakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. It is well-known, Minister, that, in the context of the treatment of the health coronary, restrictions on urban, suburban and rail transport, at European and global level, air flights and a number of other movements, and global and European and local, have been imposed. Because of these limitations, there has also been a dramatic decline in the economic cycle of all transport operators and in our country and pan-Europeanly, and the state has made decisions, namely the Ministry of Finance, by supporting airlines and the OSCE and the OSH and road transport tourism companies. Of course, this whole framework has had its positive results. However, since the OLAF provided for commercial movements, there was only one exception concerning a number of undertakings, notably charter airlines. There are some who are active in our country, ELINAIR, SUPERIOR, LIFE and IFLY, on the occasion of which I have tabled the report. It's all about companies, of course. This company, which had no weight until at least that day, has submitted a request to your Ministry and is asking to have the same treatment and support from the state. Forty employees were maintained. He was able to support it, through the suspension, and that's why they weren't fired. So it seemed immediately - immediately that this part worked properly to prevent workers from being found on the road. Let me make a reference to the cigarettes that this company had. In 2017 it had 2,900,000 euros, in 2018 it had 3,265000 euros, in 2019 it had 2,800,000 euros. In other words, it is obvious that it has a serious turnover. In 2020, he fought, but he did not succeed, because they were the results of such a coronary and restrictive measure, and we had a huge reduction of 70%. The company's revenues are 95% from charter flights and VIP customers abroad. The question therefore is whether the Government, the Ministry of Finance in this regard, is in a certain way intended to address the problems created by the charter companies and the airline which has requested you to ‘IFLY’, and whether the scope of HSH 4994/2020 relating to the companies in the sector in general, can be extended to both charter flights and other activities and not only to those engaged in commercial travel. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, what I must tell you is that the possibility of helping companies, in addition to the horizontal measures taken - and for the aviation sector many measures have been taken, but also for companies in general - is provided by the Temporary Framework for State aid measures, as is the case after its fifth amendment. In this context, as a legal basis for aid to enterprises such as the applicant, aid of up to 1.8 million, granted under a limited amount scheme to undertakings which suffered a reduction of at least 30% during the eligible period. We can also use as a Union legal basis and Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union, subject to the relevant conditions. It is noted that a prerequisite for the Temporary Framework, contrary to other possibilities, is that the undertaking would not have been problematic if it were medium or large, or for small and medium-sized ones not to be subject to collective insolvency proceedings. Under these conditions there may be some kind of special support, but provided that the relevant proposal is adopted by the European Commission and the competent section.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u70	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, relaunching the economy means relaunching business and work. I understand from your answer that in order to go ahead with this category of business, the government should submit a request and have the approval of the European Union so that it does not qualify as State aid, unfair competition or anything else. Since there has already been a procedure for other sectors, what our partners are asking for is to submit this request: all the airlines operating in Greece using a charter, mainly for the transport of tourists and for the provision of high-quality services, should be able to support them, because now that tourism is opening, these aid companies are also needed along with the other public transport companies. I would say that the specifications you mentioned, as I heard them, go hand in hand with their own request. They're not asking for full coverage of the damage they've suffered. Clearly support will be percentage and on a percentage of the damage. The sure thing is that the fall in cigarettes is over 70% and 80% for 2020, since the pandemic, as we have now recorded for 2020, left only a few months to act on these companies, the summer and, of course, until March, what was until the lockdowns began. Therefore, they are covered, as I have heard, and I would like you to tell us if you have worked out the proposal that you have submitted and when you will submit the request to the European Commission in this respect to obtain approval, if you consider it a precondition. I have no reason to question this as a prerequisite. It is something you could tell us about this serious issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u73	Look, before there is any such move, we will have to look at the aid that any undertaking has received, in the context of the existing measures. As you know, by means of the repayable advances - the aid will now come through the fixed costs - a very large part of the possibilities of the Temporary Framework is covered, which is simple and easy. I therefore do not know what is left of this company as special aid. Now, in order to assess any request, we should have a specific intention of the company that includes on the basis of what framework it would like to create such aid. I understand the reasons for the equivalency you are referring to - indeed there are grounds for equivalence - but every request, as you know, in the context of equitableness, is specifically addressed on a specific legal basis, which this company should invoke. We will therefore expect to see what request we will have and on what legal basis, so that we can give a more concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Since the next question I ask Member, Mrs Notopoulou, has not come yet, we will have a short break for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The sixth question will be discussed under number 769/17-2021 in the Second Cycle of SYRIZA's MEP - the Progressive Alliance of Mr. Akaterini (Caterina) Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Xenagos. Without income and without prospects’. The Minister of Tourism, Mr. Harris Theocharis, will answer. Mrs Notopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are here today to discuss once again, as you have not answered the topical question tabled by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance on the opening up of tourism, safe start-up and health protocols, the issue facing tourists. We had hoped that today you would have published protocols, which would have been able to correct failures that cost very much to Greek tourism. Unfortunately, with your government and hope is not dying lately. I say this because there are very serious problems with the protocols that have already been adopted and today you have given another extension, which have come too late, not to correct any of the failures of the past, and they have a very specific duration, once again, ten days. For example, we are constantly confronted with your contradictions. Archaeological sites, museums, we expected guides and groups to be able to operate in them, that you would have made sure that last year's injustice was restored, that is to say, that the fullness of tourist buses is increased to 85%. However, it is not the case with the groups that enter the archaeological sites and museums, where they are either fifteen people - they are not included - we do not know that - and of course you understand that in museums a group, for example, a bus that is forty people to break down into four smaller ones. What problems does that cause? You know very well that it creates a very big problem in handling the trip. Probably, tourists feel a downgrading of the service. It is true, the price of the tour and the package is very high, it is necessarily delaying the group too much, there is discomfort and at the same time there are no predictions of what will happen, for example, if it is bad weather, and your Government is not getting to know sufficiently yet where the coronary sticks. Does it only stick to archaeological sites? Does it just stick to museums? And it's a series of other technical issues. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] At the same time, it remains very serious, unresolved, the problem of organising and promoting packages and tours and organised tours with guided tours. To make it simpler, tourist agents, tourist agencies still don't know what packages to sell. I'm going to another crucial issue: the survival of the tours. You've literally turned your back on them. For a year now, they have been calling for only poor benefits. You have come to them to be disgraceful people, who not only support Greek tourism, but who keep the flame of Greek tourism alive to our visitors. You have given them about EUR 1,800 for 2020 without signals and about EUR 1,000 for 2021. I ask you: Do you really think that someone can live and support their family with 150 euros a month? Are you interested in how to pay for the needs of the house?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u77	You'll fill it in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a very serious matter, because we are talking about thousands of families for which you have not made sure that they have been suspended. Features await compensation of EUR 534 for November and December, special purpose compensation for March, April and May 2021, announced by you and your Government two, three, four times, but has not opened the programme and the Ministerial Decision has not been published in the FEK. They have not joined the branches affected by the pandemic, so you are depriving them of allowances, lotteries, pension year, rent reduction, suspension of tax obligations. So, today I ask you, one is, at least at the end of the month, because today, once again, you have brought back the same unacceptable protocols, which are the tombstone of tourism, to correct these mistakes for tourism to work? What do you intend to do to support a sector that has been severely affected?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, thank you very much. You know, Mrs Notopoulou, that we are always here to answer all issues. It is clear, however, that in order to achieve a proper opening, an opening which will have the same success we would like to have this year, we also have international obligations, we must go to various countries, we must discuss with the officials, so that we can - I say again - create that framework which will enable tourism to be opened up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u81	I can't hear you right because of the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u82	Yeah, I hope now I'm sounding a little better. We have never denied any information. We are always present here in Parliament at any time, when this is required, of course, at the same time as our important obligations at the present time. I only remind you of the countries where I have been in this period, Romania, Serbia, Russia, Germany, Poland, France, Spain, Great Britain, the United States, all these markets that are of interest to us. And from this step of the House, I can confirm that all signs are encouraging the possibility of this tourist season to begin. It is clear that the plan for opening Greek tourism, in addition to what I have already said, is a complex and very substantial plan that we have discussed many times and I do not now want to repeat. The protocols are in this plan. We have therefore in good time updated these protocols and in relation to the tour guides. The museums were also opened on May 14th. On May 13, then, the protocols related to guides came out. They have been liberalized, these protocols have become less heavy. They are eight people, not including the tour guide, enclosed spaces and fifteen people for open spaces. I do not think there is any ambiguity in this regard. I also see that while you are usually shouting about the government's failure in health matters and the management of pandemic, here you want to tell us that we have to throw it all over the wind, that there are no protocols and that we open the tourist procedures without any rules. Our country is a country that has rules. I say this at every opportunity, because there are also those who say and are our competitors: 'Come without any obligation, we are open for everyone'. No, for us the first priority is the health safety of our citizens and of the people who visit us. That is why we have a complete safe opening with protocols specifically for tour guides. Of course, these protocols will be discussed every week with the Sanctions Committee so that we can improve them. Already last Friday, although I was abroad, we spoke to the health committee, and so we were able to make improvements in relation to outdoor activities and maritime sports, so that they could also be opened up, and also with regard to conferences and the possibility of these to be implemented slowly. The message from the government, Mrs. Notopoulou, is simple. Since we are all vaccinated, as long as we observe the protocols, our country will remain safe, the cases will be increasingly controlled, less and less, the sad statistics of the ICMs, the intubations and the deaths will be improved, the pressure on the health system will be reduced, as is reduced in recent weeks and this is a very pleasant example of the great effort of the Greek people and that is why we must continue with this rule. As long as we do that, we will have no problem with the opening up of tourism. Now - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - in relation to the support for tour guides, I myself, Mrs Notopoulou, have dealt with this very much, precisely because the framework that has been built for tour guides is a framework which, if you like, is a little hermaphrodite, i.e. they are neither employees nor self-employed, is an intermediate category. In any case, what we have done is to give support for 2020 and for March and April, the 800 euros for September and October, the 534 euros and the possibility of, of course, to start the tourist season, because the greatest gift will not be the allowances, is the possibility for these people to have a job, to be able to make tours. And last summer with the opening of tourism, there was some possibility that in the winter months there could be a seasonal unemployment benefit from the OAED, even significantly reduced the number of necessary credits from a hundred to fifty. So in the winter months they did not receive a special allowance, but they received the allowance from the OAED. And of course something happened with our own intervention from the Ministry of Labour. And I would like here to thank the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance because they accepted the need to continue this support and during the opening of these three months. Don't worry, all these processes will be completed, they will open up the systems and these people will get the benefits they deserve. I conclude by saying that it will also be clarified by the Ministry of Labour that they are entitled to the self-tests issue, because I have heard some confusion in this regard. Of course, tour guides are able to obtain self-tests so that they can stay safe and control over the period which, fortunately, is slowly owned. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u83	Here, Mrs. Notopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u84	Minister, it was probably not even understood by you that tourism is not an abstract concept. Tourism is first of all his people and also his services. And you are insisting today on a tactic of "seeing and doing" that seems not to realize that it brings the end of this year before it even begins. Because it cannot be realised that if there are no clear, up-to-date, rational protocols, they cannot sell packages, tours or tours organized with guides. It should be understood at some point by your Government that, instead of swinging the finger in opposition, you should raise your sleeves and work. Because you can do very well last year in Santorini with a succumbing tourism that cost us early closure of the season, many good times this year in Sounio you opened tourism without tourists and no protocols to bring tourists, without bilateral agreements, you can well distort what the Antipolistics says because we do not see, respectively, that vaccination is progressing as you should have anticipated or had taken care to implement, we see that you are opening up tourism with self-tests. And by the way, who's gonna pay the self-tests for guides? Is there any prediction of this? Because that is not clear to us either. Now, there are very specific issues. What about the little microphones you predicted last year? Are they mandatory? Since they are or could be, why not increase the number of people entering groups, so that they can work and not beat, break tour tourism? If we don't talk about other tour testimonies from different regions, let's go to a cruise ship, because you say you support the cruise. It's enough for a cruise ship in Cataco with a thousand passengers. Twenty-three buses about. Ancient Olympia how much? Three? Five? The rest? A panoramic ride? That means they will never visit an archaeological site. And I say again that for these three - five, obviously, the same difficulties apply from the splitting of the groups, from the delays, from the cost, from what we are saying. Minister, for about a year now, tour guides have been telling you that they feel stunned, and you and your government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has turned their backs on them. They warn you - and we with them - not to dismantle Greek tourism and continue to be indifferent. Today you have given no solution either to the problem of their survival or to the problem of the functioning of the summer season. I hope - in fact we wish - that you understand what is at stake, and even in fifteen days from now when we are talking about presenting a basic plan with basic logic, because at the moment you are bringing the personification of irrationality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u85	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u86	Mrs Notopoulou, I find it a little difficult to follow exactly your reasoning. First of all, for the self-tests you mentioned to me, please take a look at what I said. Maybe you'll get the minutes. I said that the self-tests will be clarified - because it is clear, but in any case, if there is any doubt - that they will have the right to supply self-tests and this clarification will be made by the Ministry of Labour in the next period to finish this matter. It is a misunderstanding as to whether they are self-employed or not. For the definitions of self-test are self-employed. But since one can interpret it otherwise, this will be clarified and so there is no question. Now, the protocols are clear, up-to-date and rational. We're never gonna agree, because part of your job is to find it all black. I would suggest that, instead of talking about fierce things last year, which are the facts that advertise Greek tourism, get rid of the role - because it is a miserable role and does not take you - the defamator of the country. When you tell us that we opened up without a plan last year, I go to France and all the travel agents, the tour operators, the "TRANSAVIA", the airline itself, said how safe the protocols were, and that is why Greece was the first to the French preference this year. Last year's opening was advertising for the country and the only ones you saw defamation. Look at it, look at reality. As true and in fact based on your counterpopulation, I am sure this will be rewarded by the Greek people. But as long as it's away from reality, don't think it's good for you. When you see no plan lack, the global organization for tourism and travel, the World Travel and Tourism Council, awards us as the best country in the world to manage the opening of tourism. And I didn't hear a word from you, a good one for the country. Because he didn't award me, he didn't award the Ministry of Tourism, he didn't even award our Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis. He has awarded the efforts of the Greek people. He has awarded the responsibility of the private business, which has kept the protocols free without needing brushes, without needing the auditor, because they care, because our country is a host country, and hospitality is caring for the other. And if other years this caring was a pillow to sit more comfortable or it was a cold drink to unwind, this year I care about it means thinking about his health, I observe the rules, I observe all the obligations. This will allow me to continue to do so. And thankfully the compass of recognition that leads us from abroad. It's okay. This is unfortunately the level of public dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u87	Good, thanks. We move to the eleventh Question No 766-17-2021 on the second occasion of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance on the subject: "Taking over the problem with legacy that does not recognize the land register and extend the deadlines for pre-institution." The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. George Stylos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. He raised up in Heraklion and I believe in all Crete the problem with the legacy heirs during the pre-insurance phase. What is the problem in particular? Because there was a ban on L.431/1968 but also before a restrictive procedure for the fragmentation of the legacy, in practice the tradition of the Cretan State of the transfer was applied by the reason of parts of the legacy. In other words, there was, in practice, partitioning the legacy. In some cases there was also a notarial act, which, by 2012, we abolished this ban on Law 4061, if I remember correctly, is considered irregular and illegal. What's the problem? The statements made by owners who have lots of helmets are not recognised, and this problem cannot be solved unless a similar arrangement is made by the Ministry of Rural Development for the areas that have been expropriated at Kastelion Airport the new one, which provides for the possibility of partitioning retrospectively, in order to allow these properties to be recognised for expropriation in this case. To the people we're talking about, they're on the Stock Exchange. That's the big deal. And the second is that because of the pandemic everyone is asking for a longer period in any case, namely, posting, as the end of April, which began for the municipalities of Heraklion and ending at the beginning of next month, it is not considered the space possible for everyone to be able to respond to the objections, to the collection of data and given the problem of the legacy, because you need to know that Heraklion prefecture has about 30% Asia Minor legacy many people have received legacy and the problem is intense. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, honourable Member, thank you for the question you have tabled. It is a problem that concerns several of our fellow citizens, certainly in the region of Heraklion. The problem with the tool of the pre-institution, and to which we want to provide solutions, has now come to light. The solution to the fragmentation of the legacy is there, because our Government has taken care of with Article 39 of Law No.4673/2020, which extended to Article 31 of Law No. 4061/2012, is the law that you invoked - and which Article 39 of Law No.4673/2020 is in force until March 2024. There is therefore the institutional framework on the basis of which citizens can appeal and be justified in relation to the fragmentation of the legacy and in relation to their transfer. As far as the register is concerned, on the basis of this article, the register will accept all the decisions that will be taken and this can happen either now or in the future. So I say: I should not - I am not addressing the citizens - worry about the deadline for the pre-election, which is a first tool used by the register to understand the problems that exist. Why? Because they can at any time, when they have the decisions, come and deposit the relevant documents and proceed with the registration of them in the register. In addition, after the preamble follows the procedure provided for in the law, and the preamble is not mentioned in the law, the posting in which the citizens can lodge their applications for correction and they will therefore submit additional information or their particulars, or whatever else they have again to be justified. That is what I wanted to say at the moment. The rest, if there are, I'll tell the dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to see the arrangement to see if it covers this problem, which I believe the dozens of lawyers involved in this matter knew this solution. I have the impression that this article refers to cases of reafforestation. I do not know whether it refers to the cases of a single legacy that has been partitioned before 2012, because after 2012 partition is permitted. I repeat that after 2012 fragmentation is permitted. However, the partition has a coefficient before 2012. We would therefore like not to extend the scope of the provision that abolished the fragmentation ban, but to retroactive effect from the day it was in force. That's what needs to be done. We must have a retrospective force of partitioning and, of course, we must bear in mind that this possibility of partitioning should be taken into account. the identification rather retrospectively of the partition. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Why am I saying that? An owner of a legacy, who has given his children half a half a year before 2012 - I take one case - a legacy with the informal parental provision and who has today passed away. This procedure cannot be acted upon. The tax has been paid normally, but is not recognised as the property held by the owner and has been submitted to the Register to be recognised, because it is part of a legacy and, at that time, it was prohibited to partition and does not recognize it. That's the problem. He doesn't recognize it. Why doesn't he recognize it, where it had to be done automatically? Because it's a legacy. The legacy has been passed, he knows what the legacy was, he does not consider partitioning legal, and so he rejects it all. That's the problem. If the legislation covered it, it would not reject the system all the heirs, all the parts rather of the legacy that have been requested by their owners to join and be identified by the Register and we now see them with'red'. In other words, I think that there is a need for legislation that responds to the specific problem of the functioning of the register and the recognition of these legacy parts, which I say to you that I have spoken with many lawyers who are involved in the procedure and have not told me about this regulation. You may refer to the refreshment arrangement. But I'm not talking about reafforestations. If, however, this is the case, the register system should be corrected so that it does not reject it. Another to ask him for a posteriori title, as is done in many cases and for non-bowels, where if the statement, based on your E9, based on all supporting documents, responsible declarations, is recognised and can request a title in the course. This is not what this is all about. He's rejecting it for you. It takes you out'red'. But further analyse the arrangement to see if it covers, otherwise we will seek a solution. This is also the purpose of the question, and I believe that you too have the will, if necessary, to find regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u94	Mr Kegeroglu, it is clear from the outset that you and we and the government are here to give solutions to the problems of citizens and, where necessary, to take such initiatives, legislative or administrative initiatives. I shall submit to the Minutes of the House paragraph 3 of Rule 39 on your own facility, because we are talking about a fair, very specific and very specific one. It is possible that several lawyers have not dealt with these issues in depth and that the solution already exists. So what did the law in 2012, which provided an extension of five years? And this five-year extension was reintroduced by the government in 2020. That's why I said we were going until 2024. It is therefore mentioned in all cases, not only in reafforestation. In 2012, it enabled citizens by notarial act or courts to ratify this act, in the event of a legacy fragmentation. So the world must be brought to the courts, so that it can be justified, because an institution must ratify the law and the right, in accordance with the law, and it cannot in any case be done by the administration or the Land register. I would like to make it clear that in the event of a transfer of a legacy, without partition, there is no problem at the moment from the register, whether to a relative or to a third person or to others. This is registered directly in the register. So I'm tabling what I mentioned in the Minutes to see it. I will make a partnership, we have a communication with the Ministry of Agriculture and, if necessary, we will set up a small committee with our partners to cover as many cases as possible, as the problem has been raised by you as the problem was created from life itself by going back decades, which can start in '60, '30 or even more backwards. Our life itself led us, together with the way we worked as a society at those times. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'll just be a minute, Mr. President. At the same time, I am telling you at the moment and I also tell the citizens that the contractor's acquisition is being carried out by the contractor. They will therefore inform the Office of the Land register and of this case in great detail to the contractor so that it can inform the public accordingly and direct them so that they can follow the procedures so that a solution can be found. In addition, the register itself will make information through means of communication, to clarify and unravel this case more for the citizens. I repeat that it follows the stage of suspension, which is institutionalised and in which they can raise their objections, objections and corrections so that they can be justified if they really have the necessary documents. So I want to say that there is no question of deadline. And I also inform you that in the country the first preamble from the 2019 acquisition was made in the areas of Arta, Preveza, Lefkada, which I, the State Secretary responsible, have been able to attract my origin from Arta. The preamble expired on 13 May. No extension was granted, because it is not necessary. Citizens may at any time lodge additional information. In the event that a citizen has not made any realisation, he can now even post the post, and after the posting he will go to testify the evidence from his parcels, what he has, to be recorded in the census. In relation to Kastelli and the case of Kastelli, there was a special legislature of the House and it was issues of public interest - you understand - to build the airport. However, we will exhaust all the other possibilities that exist and all the possible solutions if they are not already covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. There is going to be a slight interruption of a few minutes for technical reasons and we will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We continue with the fourth with number 5598/1-4-2021 question of the circle of petitions by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Procedures for the revitalization tables of candidate doctors". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President, and your understanding. Mr Minister, this timely question we are debating today concerns, in addition to specific complaints, unjustified acts. And I am referring to the characterisation of essentially your own, ministerial decision signed by you, of non-legislative crises conducted by the Crisis Recruitment Board secretariat, concern curators second of specific specialist hospitals of the 1st and 2nd Health Region, as in this timely question we state. In this crisis, this paradox has happened, so let me call it, 'primarily': The Ministry of Health, through Mr. Kontozamanis, referred to the Crisis Council the practical that had been sent to it - namely - 'in the rating, interview, candidates' interview, evaluation, selection and drawing-up of tables' and asks Mr. Kontozamanis from the Council to proceed to a new legal crisis, in accordance with the provisions of the existing legislation and the relevant ministerial decisions. And then, in this document Mr Kontozamanis mentions in detail all the illegalities that have occurred in this crisis. Three months later, on 14 September 2020, the Crisis Council meets and rejects the Ministry's request, insisting that the crisis has taken place in accordance with the legislation and there is no need for a repetition and insists on its decisions. Indeed, it is characteristic that the FEK of appointments was not even signed by the Minister or the State Secretary, Deputy Minister, as usual, but by the head of health services. A second crisis took place during which similar, similar, irregularities of the same quality took place, non-compliance with legislation and so on. I am not talking about specific, however, that is a fact. And I note that the second crisis is over. Until 9 May, where I had information, there was no appointment FT and you must intervene. And our question is as follows: Do you intend to accept the arbitrary, illegal, irregular procedures that cause and despise all concepts of fair judgment? If not - which I believe and wish - what steps will you take to restore legitimacy? Will you investigate the responsibilities of members of the Judiciary Council who have defied a law and your request for referral, Minister? Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u98	Be well! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Balafas, allow me to say a few words on the procedure for calling for a position to come into the essence of your question. Whenever a notice to cover posts of medical staff in hospitals and health centres of the National Health System is published, doctors interested in recruiting some of these posts shall submit their application with all the necessary supporting documents, as provided for in the relevant Ministerial Decision. Your question, obviously, relates to the reinstatement of the crisis over the occupation of two qualified specialists in the Surgeon Thoracian Sector, one at the Salvation Hospital and one at the “Juneo” Hospital of Piraeus. So how does the process work to restore the truth: Approval of the Ministry of Health in October 2018 to call two places to hospitals I said. The Board for the Crisis and Selection of Physicians NSAs for the Specialty of Surgery Thorakos was established by a decision of the then Secretary General of the Ministry of Health, as laid down in Article 7 of Law 4498/2017 and consists of five members on a regular and additional basis. The Council met seven times at the seat of the 1st RCF. The first meeting was held on 19-2019 and the seventh meeting on 26-9-2019. And after drawing up the final scoreboard of candidates, it proceeded to classify them in each of the above positions. It is noted that for the place at the “Salvation” Hospital, thirteen applications had been submitted and for the place at “Juneo” eleven. A number of issues relating to the procedure and the moleculosis were raised with objections from seven candidates, who responded separately to the fifth and sixth Council meetings of 1-8-2019 and 6-8-2019 respectively. Following the completion of the crisis and the selection of the Surgery Thorakon specialty, all relevant documents concerning the crisis were sent to the Ministry of Health in October 2019. One of the objectioned candidates returned with a request for referral back to the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health, in response to its institutional role as statutory auditor, shall refer the minutes of all seven meetings in a document in June 2020, focusing on two grounds of formality and not of substantial legality, which fall within the responsibility of the Ministry to check them. Therefore, during its eighth session on 14-9-2020, the same Board for the Crisis and Selection of ESS doctors set up in 2018 for this specific qualification responded documentally to the two grounds for referral expressed in the Ministry’s document without repeating the crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me point out, Mr President, that according to the case-law, there is no second reference from the Minister for Health on the same subject, so that the positions which are being put forward can be more quickly filled up. And then the Ministry of Health proceeded with the position of doctors who were finally selected in December 2020 and the appointment decisions were published in January 2021 in FEK. It followed a second request to refer to the same issues, submitted by the same candidate and the first one on 14-5-2021, after the appointment of the doctors selected in both posts, when it was not examined. Let me also point out here that the request for referral made following the adoption and publication of the decision to appoint the doctors has been decided by the Legal Council of the State as incomplete, since the list of classifications no longer calls into question its legality in the context of the administrative procedure. In reply to the questions you raised, there was a request to refer the matter back to the Ministry of Health for the sake of formal legality and not for the purposes of mobilisation. Such issues fall within the competence of the Crisis and Choice Council set up in 2018, as I said and which took into account all the candidate's statements of protest and responded to the complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u100	All right, the rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u101	All right, Mr President, in my dentext.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u102	And the dentistry, what are we gonna do with it? Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u103	Minister, I would be happy if there were more concrete answers. I fear that what has been said - good faith, I do not doubt - is not answering this question. Is there illegality? Can anyone do whatever they want? Can it be measured according to whether it takes into account documents, particulars, certificates, for example after-schooling abroad and taking into account false declarations, as you in your document mention very specifically? So no one raises their hands high, that is to say, glimpse is absolute! I understand, in the crises there are many statesmen in the New Democracy - well, badly, judged - there are your great executives, there are large-scale trade unionists and trade unionists, magistrates, names and non-government. I understand all this, but you know what? The whole case is in the ancient Greek sense of abusiveness and you must not accept it. There's something to be done. So I do not want to say anything else, but my request is to come to an understanding. I am not in the mood to oppose the opposition, but this case goes beyond the limits. These, and I would ask you, whether you will answer me now, to see how this story will go forward, to give elementary justice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u104	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. To finish what I said to Mr Balafa. First of all, Mr Balafa, I do not think it is right to say that there are Member States and those who take positions or do something wrong. There are specific procedures. In fact, it is the law of the Board of Crisis of your own governance and the procedures are the same and they are always followed. And there are all those safeguards in order for someone to resort to, since he considers that he has been wronged either in moleculosis or in the formal case of his judgment. I said, therefore, that there was a repetition, followed by a repetition of crisis called for by the Ministry for reasons which have nothing to do with moleculosis but formal legality. On moleculosis issues, of course, everyone can make their objections and examine them within the Council of Crisis. My answer to complaints is negative, for they have not come to our knowledge. In addition to issues of reasons such as mobilisation, as I have said, do not fall under the legality of the Minister for Health by referring back to the practices of a crisis. And thirdly, the Council examined the referral document by substantiating the reasons for it and there was no ministerial decision, as mentioned in your question. So what you're saying is that it's the Ministry of Health's decision is the referral document. The crisis has therefore not been repeated and there is, of course, no administrative openness in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u106	We continue with Question No 777/17-005-2021 on the fifth question by the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change, Michael Katrin, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'An unjustified delay in the payment of compensation for the farmers of Elias'. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the question has two arms. The first part relates to COVID allowances and the second part to allowances for ice-cream and quartz in Elia. As far as compensation is concerned, the fourth time question I tabled and discussed in plenary is the question I put to the House. The first was submitted four months ago and each time the Ministry assures that the products will be compensated for for the first time on 5 February. The request had been approved by the European Union since 5 March, but the late watermelon, autumn potato and greenhouse crops producers still await the adoption of a joint ministerial decision despite the relevant announcement you made on 5 April, a month and a half ago. The producers of citrus and vegetable salads are still waiting to see whether they will be compensated because of the high price drop, and you have not made it clear if they are COVID compensation beneficiaries. Now we're going to the ELGA compensation. A month ago in this Chamber we asked the same question. You said that on the second fortnight of May you will have a picture of the damage to the frost of March - April to make an evaluation, without, of course, Minister today, talking about this. Grape cultivation has been completely destroyed by the frost. Great damage exists in citrus, potato, early watermelon crops. The damage to the raisin will also affect next year, while the acarp in the oranges in several areas of Elias - i.e. Makrisia and Kalavaki - will exceed 90%. In all this, quartz was added ten days ago in the region of Budrassia with total crop destruction in watermelons and melons. Even the day before I visited packing rooms, the producers informed me that there was also a drop in the price of the products plus all that. So you ask: First question, is this the fourth time I have tabled it to the Government in this Chamber without taking a specific answer - when will producers of late watermelon, autumn potatoes and greenhouse crops finally be compensated for and whether you will also compensate citrus fruits and vegetables - salads which have suffered objectively great damage because of COVID? Secondly, what is the exact timeframe - if you have - for compensation from the producers' ELGA in Elias, which has been damaged both in March - April and in the recent quarantine? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u108	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Catarini, I come back and answer your questions. I think you're trying through this process to create impressions. And that - let me say - is wrong with you. Because I understand that you have the same anxiety we have. But while you stay in anguish and words, we move on to actions. In fact, these actions, because you bring us every three and a little here in the House, are analyzing them to you. But besides, if you'd watch our own announcements, you'd see them a lot easier. Therefore, to be rapid - because there are a lot of questions - it is already and is waiting for our decision on the 24 million, which I told you next time, which also covers the summer and autumn potatoes with 11.9 million and the watermelon with 6.5 million and fruit and vegetables. If you want the plan of decision is here. I've signed it, and I've signed it. And as I told you, he's in the process of getting FEC. Now that we come and talk about compensation to farmers, I would expect you - as many of your colleagues do - to say that for the first time we have a government that comes and compensates both in time for the major natural disasters such as the ones of the 'January' - which are unprecedented of how the government reacted - but also in the payments made by the ELGA and proves that we have political will - while you are unfortunately staying in the words - and the organized plan. And for the first time - that is, if we were to talk at another level, I would say that we have destroyed all the records - through the ELGA this year, in addition to all the other things that it has done and you know them - I have said them many times in the Chamber with the housework that has been done - the disasters of this year, which are unprecedented, because as you know, these disasters took a year and a half to get paid. And instead of coming to say and represent the farmers who take the money in time and know it, you come and ask us for the change. For what? For the frost. I told you - as the Prime Minister himself said on the ground before anyone else goes, and I do not know if he has even gone to party leader to see exactly what happened to the fields affected by the frost - that we are doing much faster than it was in the past. ELGA moved and where he has thirty geotechnics in Patras, he hired another twenty-five, so that all the estimates can be made on time. I told you that from 15 to 30 May we will be able to have all the estimates. In fact, earlier than 30 May, we will have the whole of the assessments. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You know very well, because it has been made public, that we have made a very big fight. We have played a leading role in this effort in Europe with partners in France and Italy who have also been affected by these ices. We have put it - if you want me in the Minutes to read it - informally at the previous Council of Ministers, we have spoken, personally, with all the Commissioners involved. And it is on the agenda this week that we are now officially discussing our request to cover this great amount of data in the country, so that we can cover damages which were indeed great and have kneeled the Greek producers in your area too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u111	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm done. In this context, as I have told you, we are following the procedures that you know. We are clearly in the short term. We're a lot ahead of what's happened in the past. And because these crops were growing in the middle and at the end of the summer, we have all the time in front of us to record after the first studies by the representatives of the ELGA and see exactly how much money will be given. And we have said both the Prime Minister and I, despite the difficult budgets, that we will meet the needs that have arisen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Katrinis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you're talking about creating impressions. Be careful, you in this Chamber as a ministry four times - today is the fourth - say that you will make a ministerial decision and come and ring the preliminary draft today, but you are not answering me when you will issue the ministerial decision, when you will open the platform and when the producers will be paid on specific dates, you are creating impressions. You are constantly saying that we have generally and vaguely compensated all the producers who had a problem, neither falsely nor falsely. You don't answer me what you're going to do with the early citrus fruits that by the end of January sold eight minutes a kilo. What are you going to do with the horticultural - salads that were double-driven within 2020 and 2021 because of the closed focus? And you do not directly say that we will not compensate or think or get into a process to examine it. But even what you have announced for forty days, that you will compensate, you are coming today with courage - I am sorry to say it, Mr Minister, because you know that I do not usually express myself - to tell us that we are creating impressions and that you have a preliminary draft decision and you do not tell us when Mr Skulakis will sign it and when the producers will take their money. Secondly, who creates impressions when you said the second quarter of May we will have a damage assessment. Today it's May 24th. What do you think? By May 30, we will have an appreciation. Very nice, but today, why don't we get a first assessment? I know and support, of course, your request, and the Council of Ministers tomorrow, that there be additional funding and flexibility in the funding conditions for insurance agricultural organisations due to the impact of climate change, but today we are not talking about specific timetables. Very good, you say that you will be appreciated by 30 May. On May 30th, we'll ask you again. When will this process be completed? You have committed yourself that compensation will be paid in full and you and the Prime Minister will be paid. You said in your prototype that the total amount is inconceivable, some say it's over 200 million, some say it can go beyond it, while the entire ELGA budget this year, if I'm not mistaken, is 170 million. Shouldn't you, Minister, consider offsetting compensation contributions, exempt farmers from the assessment fees, just as you did with the 'January', and give even a small portion of the advance payment of compensation, when you admit that it was an unprecedented natural catastrophe that extends to many areas of the country? So here I ask you not to create impressions, but to take specific dates, binding from you, which will say that 'in the next fortnight the compensation will be paid because of COVID', that 'in the next period we will see the products due to COVID that we have examined', that 'in the next specific period we believe we will be able to pay in full', as you have promised, 'indemnifications due to frost and hail'. Everything else, to describe to us what you have done so far in all the categories of products, in all the regions of the country, is to create impressions, Mr Minister, and it is not a concrete answer to the specific questions I ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor, and I would ask you to keep up with time, because we have too many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I will not monitor Mr Katrin in this effort, because I have been in the first place, and I have said that I believe that the object to which I have the honour of serving is an object that does not enter into party controversy and I will not follow this slippery path. Only to say about the Minutes that I said the opposite. I said that it has been signed by me and by Mr. Dogakakis and is for publication. You call it backwards. You didn't hear it well. I repeat. And secondly, as far as - and there is something essential from this debate - the whole thing about how the Ministry works, I tell you again, because you have referred to many products. We have been there since the first moment to support our producers and to make up for the income they lose either because of the pandemic conditions or because of the natural disasters in the different ways that they know and know. In this context specifically for the losses which exist due to the pandemic, we have clearly said that we need documentation to prove in the producer's file - not one, but all of the producers, associations and so on - the reduction of income from previous years. Where there is such evidence, which we as a ministry also control, we are forming the file, documented by us with the invoices and other evidence brought by the producers and their associations, and then we are taking it to the Treasury, the Treasury of Finance, which determines the payments and the times. So that's the process, that's what we're following, that's what we're going to follow. For the first time Greek farmers, the Greek producers have against them a state which, on the one hand, is doing its job properly and, on the other, gives the money where it should and, thirdly, does not lie. And now you want to come here and impress me that I was supposed to have told me sometime that the payments would come at some other time. That's not true. Take the data, talk to the producers, who know what I'm telling you because they're already publicized, and we're at your disposal at any time. If you have different views, substantiate them with some of your own letters to us to see them. In this context, then, the documentation of anything else that comes up in the future will also be done. As far as frost is concerned, I have explained before that we are doing this great effort, but even if it is not completed in this Council of Ministers this week in Brussels, we will continue to be able to cover the producers affected by the frost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u116	We continue with the seventh under the number 761/14-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr. Ahmet Ilhan to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Absence of vaccination centres in the Municipality of Arrianes of Regional Unity (PLO)" Rhodope’. Mr. Contozamanis will answer. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when the pandemic broke out, the Ministry of Health announced that there would be a thousand eighteen vaccination centres throughout Greece. In these eighteen vaccination centres within the Prefecture of Rhodope was Kecros, but also Fillyra, a purely minority municipality that serves twenty thousand inhabitants, with fifty-eight settlements, which in turn is about 100 kilometers [100 km]. But what happened along the way? In the course of the course of six months, and never were these two vaccination centres in this municipality. The vaccination centres were raised from a thousand eighteen, which I said at the outset, and went to the thousands of five hundred, three more vaccination centres were added to the Rhodope Prefecture - well, your choice - but again you forgot about this great municipality. But after the pressures - both my topical question and the mayor and all the local society - you have decided to make a vaccination centre. And you know what the official state figures say, the statistic? That the rate in Rhodope with a hundred thousand people is only 11.75% more. Vaccination rate with one dose is 21%, overall 33%. But what about all of Greece, let's see? Complete vaccinations 16% of the total population pandemic, single dose vaccinations 29% and a total of 45%. So Rhodope has a 15% difference in the total vaccinated population. Why this difference? And the Prime Minister protested yesterday, made a recommendation to Pachni, Xanthi, and said he wasn't inoculated. I shall refer in particular to the latter's reasons. Now, in the prototype, we ask you: why, Minister, until today, has not opened any vaccination line in the Municipality of Arrianes? Why this difference? And if the regional hospitals of Fillira and Kechrou had initially been provided for in a special population, in a mountainous municipality with fifty-eight remote settlements, why didn't it open? I want my fellow citizens to know that in Thrace. Second question: What is the fact that prevents the government from doing its job properly? Are you planning to open more vaccination lines directly to the Municipality of Arrianes to meet the needs of the citizens?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u118	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ahmet, there is indeed a smaller vaccination coverage in the Rhodope Prefecture than the pan-Hellenic average. However, this does not mean that it is a matter of bad planning. We must all understand the need for vaccination and convince all our fellow citizens to come to be vaccinated. I say this because in the Rhodope Prefecture, 11 vaccination lines operate with a daily capacity of nine hundred twelve vaccination centres and vaccination centres operate in the three of the four municipalities of the prefecture. It did not function in the Municipality of Arrianes for purely technical reasons related to the process of receiving, handling and storing vaccines. You are best aware that the distance of the villages and settlements of the Municipality of Arrianes is fully accessible, direct and with good road network in the border contagious vaccination centres of the Rhodope Prefecture, which operate daily, Saturdays and holidays, until 22 noon. Therefore, there is access to vaccination. The Municipality of Arrianes consists of about twenty thousand inhabitants able to be vaccinated at very short distances with a good road network. The Regional Unit of Rhodope has a vaccination centre of nine thousand three hundred inhabitants, which is on the average of Greece and has started vaccination in the regional hospital of Fillira since May 24th. In fact, seven hundred six appointments have been closed by the end of June. Therefore, access to and geographical coverage of the entire regional unit is ensured. It is very important that we all contribute to the great effort to convince our fellow citizens who have doubts and who are suspected of being vaccinated. The citizens of the Rhodope Prefecture should not lose this opportunity, and why it is the main reason, so that we can build a wall of immunity against the pandemic. To conclude, I would like to say that we ensure and ensure that all populations are provided with uninterrupted and rapid access to vaccination centres and to the entire regional unit, so that the vaccination process can be accelerated. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u120	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u121	Minister, after six months of delay, the vaccination centre in Fillira began operating today and, as you said, the figures show that the presence of our minority fellow citizens is increased. Where were you six months? Where have you been? Why was this incredible absence of the government? But let's see what happened. During the one year of pandemic, a Member of Parliament, myself, and two mayors, have lifted all the burden of informing this population in order to protect public health. There was no information in either their mother tongue or anyone else in the minority so that these people could be protected and informed. In fact, some Athenian media constantly blamed the minority and said that because of this population, the region and public health are at risk, which was extremely devastating, when the absence of the government was proud. But, Minister, today you have made a vaccination centre in Phillyra, but you have created another major problem. Do you know what this is? You've reduced by 90% the agricultural doctorates. Do you know that today in Phillyra an agricultural medical office is only working one day since the opening of the vaccination centre? Do you know that the office went to Arrianes in one day? In other words, we're doing a vaccination center and we're leaving people in their luck, while in Passo, in the village, you were filed by Mayor Arrianes two days ago, Mr. Ritvan, where he reported to you about being a medical center, so that people could go to doctors. Minister, things are extremely serious. Yesterday we lost a young man sixteen years of a car accident in Organi, because the ambulance made two hours to come. And think there's an ambulance in Organi! Imagine it wasn't there. But the ambulance came from Alexandroupolis in two hours. There's no will, there's no doctors. However, on this subject I shall come back here with another question, Minister, to see the dramatic situation that exists up there. Finally, I would like to say this: They say in conclusion that it does not cover us the only vaccination centre in Filliras. That is something we should be clear about. We're talking about twenty thousand people and seven vaccination centres, four in Komotini, two in Jasmos. This work can't be done! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, they absolutely have to work in medicine so that people can go and get his medicine and see his blood pressure. Thirdly, the mountain tumor must definitely be equipped. I am not going to go into this with my question, but it is a matter that I shall bring back. And in any case, we say afterward why the world is leaving, why it's migrating from Thrace and there's no world up there. But it's a fascinating absence. I expect you to tell us in good faith if you finally have a plan for public health as a whole in the region and the county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u122	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ahmet, as I told you today, the operation of a vaccination centre in the region of Phillyra began. The Rhodope Prefecture has eleven vaccination lines. And with the one who started running today, it has 12. I do not think that it is lacking in relation to other laws in relation to the development of vaccination lines, and other structures will be added. At the beginning of the 'Freedom' operation, we said there would be a thousand eighteen vaccination centres developing throughout the country. And at the moment a thousand and fifty-five have been developed to date, and we have planned to develop another three hundred vaccination centres, since the vaccines available in the country are now in such quantities that we have the potential to cover more quickly and more of the population, so that we can build the necessary immunity wall. At this point, I would like to say something that we have noted many times, that the Greek state has ensured vaccines for the whole population, for all citizens. We won't let any of our fellow citizens inconvenience. The "Freedom" operation is designed to meet the needs of vaccination of the entire population and we will reach the last point in the country in order to be vaccinated as well as the last citizen of this country. Finally, I am going to look forward to your question on public health. In any case, both regional medical services and health centres and structures not only in this region, but also in the wider region of Macedonia, are working in such a way that the needs of our fellow citizens are fully met. And since there are particular conditions requiring specific action, here we are, in order to provide a solution so that none of our fellow citizens remain without the necessary health services. We recognise that there is a closeness of resources and, above all, of human resources that compels us to reorientate our forces in such a way that we can carry out both the "Freedom" operation and ensure the smooth functioning of all health structures. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u124	We continue with the tenth with the number 770-17-2021 topical question of the second question of SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Evaluation failure of self-tests - opacity for epidemiological data and control of SARS - CoV - 2 mutations in Greece". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as far as pandemic is concerned, we are in a phase of slow but fragile degressivity. I think it is of great importance at this stage that we have good tools for epidemiological surveillance, that there is a reliable early detection and traceability system and that we have a good picture of the epidemiology of virus mutations, which is where there is a great international scientific interest and which largely defines the strategy of each country. The government has chosen to open up the economy, to tourism, to focus on all critical areas, to make it based on two main things: one is vaccination and the other is self-tests. We have pointed out for a long time that the choice of self-tests has been a mistake, is a precarious diagnostic methodology, which has not been tested either in Europe, there is no data published, but neither do you, in the way you did report and report data from the EGE, help us to understand exactly what is happening with these tests. The feeling is that there is a high percentage of false negative results, but also falsely positive results, so that it is problematic and the sensitivity and specificity of the method. I really want you to give us an accurate picture of this, to know if the report given to the ECDC includes self-tests or only molecular and rapids, as so far. We also need to know exactly what is going on, how the samples in which we make genome sequences from the Athens Academy lab are chosen, and so whether we have an image of the percentages of each mutation, British, South African, Nigerian or, in the wrong way as was said, Athenian, possibly Indian, etc., in our country, to have an image of the degree of risk of this epidemiological phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor. Please within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, we have discussed the self-tests issue several times. From the very beginning, the government has said and stressed that this is a tool that will be used in addition to our strategy for epidemiological surveillance in the country. And that's what we did. Neither PCR nor rapid antigen tests have stopped nor will they be stopped and even increased. This tool is successfully used by other countries, such as Great Britain, schools and other activities, in order to return to normality. It is a method, a tool that actually enables us to identify asymptomatic patients and that is very useful for everyone in order to draw conclusions and to be able to control the transmission and spread of the virus. As far as their credibility is concerned, I would like to say again about the devices available by the State to citizens for the purpose of carrying out compulsory controls have very strict standards. First, they should have been evaluated by a vector in the European Union with a sensitivity of 80% to individuals considered contagious to at least 100 samples and a specificity of 99% to people who do not have the virus, i.e. negative to PCR in at least two hundred samples. And these standards are much more stringent than those on fast antigen devices lists, which are mutually recognised within the European Union, where, for example, the specificity threshold has been set at 97%. The reason why we have set these high standards is to reduce the percentages of falsely positive and negative, whatever method you apply will be. So what do these standards mean, assuming we have 1% prevalence in Greece, although we still have much lower? It means that one who has a positive self-test has about 45% chance of being infected with the virus. It also means that one who has a negative self-test is likely to be infected with the virus will be 0.2% and so we have a very small proportion of falsely negative. It is extremely important that every time these tests are carried out in the population then 80% of the viral actors are driven to a verification test, so the majority of the actors in the population are identified and particularly the most contagious section. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will use time from my dentistry. Another extremely important element is that this process is completed in a few minutes and with this first result the self-test user can take appropriate measures in time until the test confirmation is completed, thereby preventing the virus from being transmitted and dispersed while awaiting the verification results. And this is the great contribution of self-tests, that we have a result in a short period of time in our home, while the result of a molecular examination needs an appointment, a visit to a health unit, a sample download, a sample mission to a laboratory and so on, and so on, it takes a long time to get the result. In one case we have the result too early and on the other, as I said, we must wait a little while, without excluding the second method. Therefore, even if we could perform molecular tests on all these asymptomatic people, our fellow citizens, the benefit we have from the early possible diagnosis, which also leads to a reduction in transmissions, we would lose it as long as we expected the results of the molecular test, because, as we have said, we are talking about our asymptomatic fellow citizens, who think they have no cause for concern and are in no way vectors of the virus. So through the self test everyone can take its precautions until confirmation is made. And the evaluation of the contribution of self-tests, to come to your questions, to the prevention of transmission in the country is done in weekly cycles to complete the majority of the confirmatory tests following the initial results. For example, we say that the percentage of diagnoses due to confirmatory tests carried out after self-test so far varies from 30% to 50% of the diagnoses announced by the EGE on a daily basis, and these are the diagnoses which were either not done or which were carried out at a very late stage, so we would have multiple transmissions of the virus. So this is quite a bigger percentage if we consider the number of people's close contacts. And taking into account the percentage of diagnoses due to the self-tests strategy, it is clear that their contribution - I repeat, as a diagnostic tool - at this stage of the pandemic is of paramount importance. The second question, Mr President, will be answered in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u129	Minister, I think the answer isn't much - it enlightened us. The picture I have personally managed to draw from the data is that about nine and a half million self-tests have been carried out in the country, two thousand samples were sent for confirmation, so it was positive that they should be confirmed, from about twenty thousand were confirmed as positive, that is 10%, a terriblely low specificity of the method and a total percentage of the positiveity of the samples is 0.2%-0.3%. At such a low rate of aggression, when we know that in rapid tests - I am not saying molecular - their positiveness at the same time is from 3% to 4% and above and with a methodology that has a tenfold rate of positiveness, do you really think we can be safe, that there is epidemiological surveillance in this country at this time and, indeed, in sensitive areas, such as workplaces? Why don't you do what we tell you 15 months now? Put rapids to prescribe, not moleculars. And molecular, of course, but for randomised and asymptomatic tests to be carried out molecularly, which will be prescribed by a doctor, will be performed with 100% compensation from the EEAS, without the participation of the citizen, i.e. free of charge, by public and private laboratories certified, by health professionals, without margin of error, without any margin of false declaration. We have evidence that there are false statements at this time. Not all positive results, for obvious reasons, are announced at the EGE base because this involves loss of share, closure of business, etc. As far as mutations are concerned, I hope you will respond in your dentext. In fact, with all this data, what I understand is that the health risk, which you have taken at this stage, is too great. Too big! We do not invest - I have told you many times - in disaster. But we are really worried, because along with the climate of relaxation, 'blue freedom', 'the last mile', etc., which you say great every day - sometime, of course, when things start and gnaw, you get them back and say that we should not relax and there should be no relaxation - the main message is that the bogeyman has passed. That's the wrong message. Vaccination should be accelerated. All right, move on. We are still back on the quality of the vaccinations. Only 60% of the elderly over sixty years are vaccinated. We don't know how many people have been vaccinated by the vulnerable groups. The percentage of vaccinated people in the health system is low. He's very precarious, I think, all management. Are you interested, for example, to check the percentage of negative self-tests? Take a randomised sample and molecular tests on a random sample of negative results, to see the reliability rate. You don't do that. I think it was a colour, for example, of the pill of this period, where, in the middle of the third epidemic wave, without being devastated, without the curve being retreated, you have made the political decision to open it all up gradually, but not with the strict health standards that they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Blonde. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I will repeat that we have not stopped all the actions that we have taken, particularly in relation to molecular control and control of rapid antigens, rapid-tests, but we have come to supplement the action with self-tests in these actions. The reality, the elements I have developed to you, indicate that this tool is very useful. We have also said that for as long as this self-testing programme takes place in the Greek population, which has to do with specific population groups, first the self-tests will be available free of charge. And, of course, we have the possibility of controlling what you say about falsely negative but also of creating an integrated picture of the epidemiology of the disease in our country. Because you said you had to prescribe the rapid-tests - you used to say about moleculars, I guess now you haven't changed your position...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u132	And moleculars.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u133	You also know - because you are not only a doctor, but you are also in this particular area - that the self-tests, which the state gives the citizens free - so there is no reason to prescribe - are, essentially, rapid - tests which have these specifications so that they can be done without the presence, without the help of a health professional, in other words, someone can do so at home. So they are rapid - test with some extra specifications so that we have the results we want. In any case, to answer the part of the mutations you have raised in your question, I will mention the following: This year the country returns to normality under different conditions than last year after the first wave of pandemic. There is a fall in epidemiological data, the situation improves, and these indicators have enabled us to return to normality. But this year we have more weapons at our disposal than last year. We have the vaccines at our disposal. The population is being vaccinated, we are developing the required walls of immunity. We have self-tests as an extra tool so that we can have a clear epidemiological picture in the country. The ‘R’ and all the indicators related to care are clearly improved compared to the previous months. With all this, then, we are given the opportunity to be able safely to return to normality now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now, as far as mutated strains are concerned, you know that the mutant that prevails in Greece is "B117, also known as a British strain. More specifically, the mutants identified over the last four weeks are: a thousand nine hundred thirty three were identified as ‘B117,’, which is the British strain and most of them are derived from random sampling, of which a thousand nine hundred thirty one were domestic and two travel related, five hundred forty-eight were identified as three other strains, ‘B1318’, ‘B1351’ and ‘B16722’, with the majority coming from targeted control.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u134	Is it a random sample, Minister, or is it a hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u135	I said a target check, Mr. Xanthi. The first is random sampling, the second is from targeted checks. And I note that to the three members I mentioned, only two were from the Indian and from the other hundred and twenty one samples were no one identified as a strain of concern or interest. Altogether, more than twelve thousand have been identified in our country. Identification is carried out by the National GNR network and the results of identification are used to update the ECDC bases and, of course, the GISAID database, so that there is full transparency in the circulation of mutated strains, but also in real time the monitoring of mutated strains is carried out on a global scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. We continue with the thirteenth, with number 771-17-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exclusion of workers in municipalities through OAED programmes from free self-diagnostic control". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, following on from your debate with Mr Blonde, we really have other points and monsters on the self-tests piece, which is, in fact, dangerous in many respects. On 23 April the Government announced the measure of compulsory self-diagnostic control for civil servants working in a natural presence, in particular by providing that the non-compliance of the measure constitutes a disciplinary misconduct, while announcing that it reduces the people working with teleworking. We have complaints both from the OAED Working Party on 5 May and from the Labour Response on 16 May to exclude workers from OAED's public works programmes from the categories of employees to which free self-tests are provided. Too many of these workers - and many - were forced either to cover their own funds, from their pockets, the tests, or to go to their service without taking tests. Some municipalities gave them the opportunity to test, because they obviously had a surplus, some others, gave them some accusations, some others to nobody. The Ministry of Labour is coming on May 14th to correct the gap, stating, now, that all OAS public workers must and can do self-tests. In practice, these people had access on May 19, as they spent the weekend and were given priority by students on Monday and Tuesday. So on Wednesday, 19 May, twenty-six days after the start of the self-tests process, you have given 30 000 workers and workers, among whom were long-term unemployed, single-parent families, families with disabled people, people with disabilities, people who carry out public service decisions, totally vulnerable people who are paid EUR 546 and, yes, it is very difficult for them to pay out of their pockets of EUR 7 and 10, to make the tests. Of course, we have also seen this phenomenon among seafarers, in the focus, in the private nurseries, in the second opportunity schools that you decided on 17 May that the check can be carried out between 17 and 23 May...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u138	Good, Mr. Comrade. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u139	I will continue in my dentistry, Minister, but tell us a little what has happened with these accusations. In my dentistry, I will say exactly what the European institutions are planning for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u140	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, the joint ministerial decision is clear and there is absolutely no point in the wrong interpretation. Its provisions shall apply to all personnel of TA I and B grades, including their supervised bodies. Workers at the ATTs through OAED programmes are clearly included in what is defined by the OAED. You have made a reference to allegedly omission of groups of workers from these free diagnostic checks, which I consider to be totally improper and unacceptable. It is not possible that what you say is not the case, that workers are controlled and that the other half are not. All this is clearly provided for in the joint ministerial decision. The same applies to all civil servants, to ministries, municipalities, regions and supervised bodies and in general to all public services. I fear that you are trying to create false impressions on issues that are outdated and clear, as in this particular case concerning the population concerned. The government's plan to relaunch activities, to restore normality and relaunch the economy as a basic condition for safe return to work and that is what we do with the self-tests tool. It covers all the employees and the free administration of these testes we safely implement our design. In any case, municipalities and regions are required to ensure that those referred to in the joint ministerial decisions are properly respected and scrupulously implemented for all their staff. Those who come to work must have carried out self-diagnostic checks in accordance with the procedures laid down. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u142	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we really have the Federation of OAS staff with a complaint on 5 May and the Labour Response trade union organisation with a complaint as well, to describe that a large part of at least thirty-five thousand workers with OAED programmes did not have access to self-diagnostic tests and had to pay for them on their own or not. So, really, it's nice to be nice, but it's nice to get in touch with reality. You proceeded with the communication on 8 May that we do not need two self-diagnostic tests, that one week is enough and indeed there is a recommendation, when workers can do a second test with their own resources, to put them out of their pocket. These are incomprehensible things. We read the communication from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, ECDC, on 17 March 2021, which says that self-diagnostic tests are a good tool and points out: "The frequency of examination is even more important than the sensitivity of the tests used and the availability of self-tests and the frequency of examination can make them a useful tool in reducing SARS-CoV2, if other confirmatory tests and rules for the traceability of contacts are followed." But the instructions are clear. I wonder: is this something going to happen in Greece? Will positive self-diagnostic tests follow, contact tracking and molecular test? Otherwise, we're really moving out of science. I would also like an answer in this regard. Of course, on the issue of the OAED, I would say that you did well and solved it a few days ago, on Friday that passed us on the 14th of the month and finally took effect on 19th of the month. But at least let you have the courage to confess your mistakes. You'll be more believed when you say something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u144	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, as far as what you said about OTA I and grade II workers who are benefiting programmes is concerned, I think the answer was clear and clear and you agreed and I am pleased about that. As far as self-tests are concerned - I have said this to a previous question by your colleague - it is a very useful tool that enables us to return safely to our economy, the country at a regular rate, and, of course, there are safeguards so that, for example, when there is a positive or negative result there is a confirmatory check to ensure the true result of the self-test. In any case with this tool, to which our fellow citizens have access, we can monitor the transmission and spread of the virus and, of course, follow specific instructions, if necessary, confirm these results so that we can be sure of the outcome of these checks. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. We are now continuing with the third under the number 773-17-2021 topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Sufficient staff shortages at the Centre for Health of the Lesvos Prefecture of Lesvos". Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Health Centre of Lesvos meets the needs of about five and a half thousand inhabitants, who are made by far during the summer months, located in the most remote villages of the island, remote from the city, thus also from the Hospital of Mytilini. The dramatic situation of subsistence and deficiencies creates insecurity and concern not only among local residents, but also among doctors themselves, health workers, since serious deficiencies often make the 24-hour operation of the health centre insecure and dangerous. The fact is that today they are serving only two specialist doctors, one of whom is only involved in on-calls, who is even a high-risk group himself, while in order to cover the 24-hour service they come for on-call specialists and from the Kalloni Health Center. In addition, one of the three rural doctors, who are in any case not enough to meet the daily needs of the seven village residents in June, will complete their term of office by leaving the health centre with just a rural doctor, while the procedures that have been done to recruit the new rural doctors, with the time they take, are assumed that the doctors who will come will take up service not before August, as they will first have to serve in the hospital. Also, for a long time the health centre was working only with two nurses, and even the movement of an extra nurse who was made days ago, after very high pressure, except that it is only for three months, it is still not possible to cover the 24-hour shifts of the health centre. Lacks exist, of course, in other categories of staff, such as ambulance drivers, given that the Centre for Health of Andissa is seventy-four kilometres from the General Hospital of Mytilini, but also cleaners and manufacturers. The same minimal and exhausted medical and nursing staff were also called upon to deal with increased duties, due to the pandemic conditions, where there is a special medical office for the management of the CVID -19 cases, but the operation of the vaccination centre has also begun. So we ask, Minister, what measures will you take to ensure that the health centre and the vaccination centre operate safely and with an adequate 24-hour capacity, with generous budget funding and that the health centre with all the necessary permanent, full-time, full-time personnel of all specialties be permanently and permanently permanently permanently employed by the medical and nursing staff who are already working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u148	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Konnakas, first of all, let me say, because you mentioned a sense of insecurity from the residents of the county, that the operation of the General Hospital of Mitilini alone ensures adequate health coverage for the inhabitants and visitors of the island, but also the county in general. I would like to point out this and to be clear that no insecurity and no anxiety should exist much more than that, should not be cultivated. Only in this way will we be able to overcome any problems. All these problems, shortcomings and gaps detected, must be reflected in their real dimension. So we will be able to improve the health services provided on each side of our country and offer even more quality services. The Centre for the Health of Antissa is organically managed by seven doctors and twenty-five people in nursing and other personnel. Unfortunately, today two of the seven doctors are absent with a special purpose permit and could not be replaced with others. After the end of the pandemic - I hope sooner - and the completion of the vaccinations, these doctors will return, strengthening the health centre. It also covers four regional hospitals, five out of five rural service doctors' posts, where, with a recent announcement from the Ministry of Health of the Vacuums and Occasional Posts, a place in the Regional Health Hospital of Eresso, a place in the Regional Health Center of Batoussis and a place in the Regional Midlands Hospital, where, upon completion of the procedures, doctors who have shown interest in all these posts, are expected to take up their duties within the month of June. Therefore, in the first fortnight of June, rural doctors will be two doctors in the health centre and five in the regional hospitals. That is to say, all positions - seven in total - of the doctors in the countryside will be covered. With regard to the coverage of the newspapers, I would like to point out the following: In the next few days, it is to be sworn and undertaken by an ambulance crew officer, with the 2K notice, which will partly solve a problem with drivers. Preserving the list of subsidiary doctors from the 2nd Health Region, we see that, unfortunately, no doctors are interested in making it possible to recruit directly and to strengthen the daily and daily functioning of the health centre. However, with coordinated efforts of the 2nd Health Region, there was a meeting of the officials of all the health centres of the island and the commander of the General Hospital of Mitilini and it was decided to strengthen the official function of the Health Center and of doctors from all the health units of the island. Today, the Centre for Health of Andissa keeps up daily, with the presence of a qualified doctor and a rural doctor, and on Saturdays and Sundays, also in the presence of a qualified doctor and a rural doctor. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u150	Please, Mrs. Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the initial answer you gave as to whether or not there is a cause for concern, as the health care of the island is covered by the operation of the hospital, proves in the most deafesting way the logic you have against primary health care. On whether or not the work of the Health Center is of concern, I will read you exactly a statement made by one of the two specialist doctors after the completion of his on-call in early May, who said: "For many hours I invented myself entirely in the health center. If in these hours there was a case of serious injury or a severe stroke, it is certain that this man would be lost in our hands, since I could not offer complete services and first aid. I tell you again that the villages of the area of Eresos Antissi are a long way from the center of Mytilini and thus from the hospital." Therefore, by saying that the degraded function of the health center does not cause a problem, because these people can be cured in the hospital, you understand how dangerous this logic is. On the day we visited the health center, the other specialist doctor who is in the hospital, who runs the debts of coordinator, at the same time made regular appointments, vaccination, emergency and suspected COVID-19 incidents that came at that time. So he had to wear a suit, examine the same doctor and the suspicious incidents. As for doctors who say they are on a special-purpose leave, one of them is on the retirement limit and is after the completion, apparently, to retire. You spoke about hiring an ambulance driver, which has started since 2018 and is about to be placed in the next space. In the meantime, however, one ambulance driver, who is currently working in the health center, will be retired at the end of the year. So you understand that with the slow procedures that work and when recruitment is done with the dropper, we will always be faced with the same situation. You understand that health requirements cannot enter the freezer, wait, wait if and when the recruitment will take place. At the same time, most of the health assistant staff work with flexible working relationships and their contracts are due to expire on 31 October 2021. Staff are to be permanentised in order not to be found again without workers and the health centre, as we are asking of course for all the workers who are currently in the process of fighting public health structures, and it is not possible, of course, to get them fired. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, for agricultural doctors to note that they too have been in the vaccination programme, and, for example, in the Eresso Regional Medicine Office only once a week, because the doctor covers the rest of the days of the vaccination centre. In accordance with the procedure followed, as far as we know - and I ask you to confirm it - it will first have to be a month from the hospital and then, in August, we will be able to place the agricultural doctors. Of course, while there is no health care staff at the health center and during the night shifts, the guards, cleaners, nurses, at the same time hired a private security company to keep the vaccines 24/7. You understand that these are not disputed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u152	All right, Comrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u153	But, anyway, this whole situation is the result of time-consuming problems and government responsibilities, the deterioration of primary health care, and it turns out that at least under current conditions we cannot continue to discuss on such conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u154	Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Konnakkas, I think you did a little falsification of what I said, because yes, I said that there is a hospital that creates a sense of security, but that is in no way related to the fact that there are problems at primary health care level that we are trying to resolve. And in our design for the reorganisation and reform of the health services provided, the main pillar is the primary level and we must certainly focus on the primary level. This includes cooperation with local authorities and social actors, as well as with the private sector, in order to achieve the maximisation of the use of existing resources and structures in the range of health centres. This necessity has also been demonstrated in recent years when we are managing the pandemic. In any case, in cooperation with the administration of the second health region and with those responsible for the health structures of the island, we are reviewing the status of displaced persons from the Centre for Health and Health and we are eliminating all possibilities for further staffing. Let me remind you, because you referred to recruitments, that both health and other staff are permanently recruited, both from notices of the AACC and from doctors' positions, two and a half thousand procured posts of medical staff from July 2019 until today, nine hundred and thirty posts of medical staff were announced last February and we are ready, in the beginning of next month, to announce additional six hundred medical staff posts to meet the needs of all the structures of the country, and furthermore to call nine hundred other staff posts. Because the shortcomings - we all know that - are not only present to medical and nursing staff, but are run by the whole health system. This has been done and we have seen it during the pandemic period, where we have managed and covered the gaps in intensive treatment units throughout the territory, and we continue to do so with a plan and with a view to having adequate staff in the structures that operate. In our above-mentioned effort, there is also the further development of the telemedicine sector, which will help our islands very much, and the review of the institutional framework of the barren regions, which we have been working on, and the provision of incentives that includes various incentives, so as to serve the remote regions of the country. We believe that with this grid of proposals and actions we will succeed in attracting the interest of medical staff, so that the units can be deployed on the island of Lesvos and not just on the island of Lesvos. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u156	Take it easy. We are now continuing - I would ask you to be within our years - with the sixth question of the cycle of petitions by the MP Hercules of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Mr Charalambos (Charis) Mamulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'When will the road to Heraklion - Messaras be completed?' Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, a vital project for the development of the island, which essentially connects the city of Heraklion with the wider area of Messara, the campus of Messara, with huge development potential and due to the increased tourism product produced in the southern part of the island. So it all started with a question that I asked you on 13 March 2021, which was not answered, and therefore our presence here today, essentially why? In order to be informed, it is essential that the citizens of Messara and the Regional Unit of Heraklion be informed about the philosophy of maintenance - because there has also been a leak in the local press - to try to maintain, exploit and manage the road project in general, but at the same time to make it very important - and for transport reasons, I stress it - that the Moires node should be completed, where it will, in essence, be filled with the existing artery that was recently built. So the dynamics, which have already been accumulated in this project, will be multiplied by a dynamic through this transport link, which already has been shown for two years, despite all of course the problems that exist and we are here to see and discuss how to find solutions. So, briefly, in my first position, what we are essentially asking of the Ministry is an update on two key pillars, firstly, what is envisaged in terms of the curriculum maturation of the Moura node, which is such an important link in this transport puzzle that unites Heraklion with the southern part of the Heraklion Regional Unit and, secondly, what is more important for us - what is the government's broader planning for integration, namely, the Heraklion - Messaras network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u158	Thank you for the time, too. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I think we will not disagree about the importance of the vertical road axis of the Heraklion Regional Unit for the development perspective of the wider region. Of course, I should like to tell you that the general importance of the vertical axes has been raised by the Ministry in the last two years and, indeed, by specific projects, which often outweigh the vultures, which may have been more common to our fellow citizens in the past few years. In fact, in your question you also referred to the issue of the vertical axis of Heraklion - Highlands and, as you know very well, it was possible to obtain funding from the SYRIZA Government, but this funding, unfortunately, was not enough for the tendering of the project. That is why we, too, have succeeded and incorporated additional funding of 350 million into the EDP, so that this project has now been put into practice. As you know very well, since you are elected to Heraklion, the road to Heraklion - Messara is divided into two parts, one concerns Heraklion to Agia Varvara and the other concerns Agia Varvara to the Ten. As you mentioned in your question, in the department of Agia Varvara until St. Ten he was delivered in 2019. However, you know very well that in order to complete the following studies, and then the work that will come out of the studies, namely the study of the department at the entrance before the village of Agia Varvara, the study of the side road across the road, the accompanying studies at the start of the project and, of course, the study of the management of the St. Barbara tunnel and the completion of the work at the Anisosios Komvos Panasos and the connecting road with Panasos. In order to complete all these studies, the process of concluding three contracts of technical consultants from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has been initiated, of which the award for the transport consultant has already been approved, and two other awards are expected for two consultants, namely geotechnical and tunnel management. As regards your first question, for the node of Moires, as you know, there is already a node in Moires in the area of the assembly of the new National Road of Agia Varvara - Kastelli and released. This node is a level. However, for reasons of traffic safety, we have chosen the solution of the circular hub level. For this reason, the Crete Development Agency is already in a study phase for the cyclic node level. According to estimates by the end of the year, this study will be completed. We are currently working on the final study on road construction and this is, of course, part of the final study by Saints Ten - Prizes for the South Axis of Crete. Further details I'll tell you in my dentistry so I don't abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u160	Mr Mamulakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u161	I think we will agree, Minister, that there is a continuity in the state and state. It is very important and I take this opportunity to address the issue you mentioned on the way to Anogia, which, in fact, had been approved by the previous government, you thought it needed to support this project and it is going very well, I would say inevitably, and I wish we could have a tender phase as soon as possible. I am tabling this as an adventurous position on the issue, which I think is on the same side of the river, if anything. Now we're going to the bottom of the question and to the core. You mentioned something, but it is inappropriate, Minister. The existing assembly, at the moment, of the end of the newly built section of the project up to Moires, is essentially based on the rules of science and art and of the European border crossings, that is to say, a practical connection has been given, but the final, correct, rational approach must be made either on the groundbout floor or on an unequal node level. We are therefore learning today that the process of maturing a study by the OAS, the Development Agency of Crete, on this link, is very important, but we must also know the dates, there must be a time-limit, a timetable for us to be able to monitor, press and, in any case, to be useful in the implementation of the competitive process. It's a crucial issue. Now, for the record, let us really say that the assessments of our Government were that in 2019 the Axis of Heraklion - Messaras road would be delivered to the traffic. Of course, two years have elapsed and there is a structural uncertainty in this matter, and I think we need to have an answer, that is, how you want to approach the completion of the work, with the technical difficulties or inconvenience that may arise in the construction or completion of the project. In conclusion, I would like to point out this. The start was made in previous years and it was decisive. The connection of the vertical axes, especially because of the shape of the island, is crucial in order to achieve balanced growth both in the east and in the west, as well as in the south and the north respectively. So we agree that this vertical axis, which is also at the core of the island, is a key and capital in terms of transport. So we must indulge and give solutions to the issue of the nodes and especially the second city, I would say, the law that is the Moires, no doubt after the city of Heraklion. It must have a connection as appropriate and as appropriate to the thousands or millions of visitors of the island in the coming years. In conclusion, because I do not want to abuse time and I respect the position of the President that there is a number of further questions, I say: it would be very important for all of us, for the people who have a responsibility, for the citizens of the island to know the timetable. In other words, the Milestones, the milestones in order to achieve the completion of this important project. This is a crucial point and I would ask for a clear answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think that in my theory of the timetable I was quite clear. I told you that the study was completed by the end of the year. In fact, I have given you the final elements which result in the circular hub level, because this has been chosen for road safety reasons. So the Milestone, as you rightly say, is at the end of the time that this study is completed. However, I should like to refer to something else. As regards the first section, the section of Heraklion - Agia Varvara is known to belong to the Region of Crete. In fact, with the decision of the Secretary-General of the Region of Crete on 1341/2007, I think it is clear. I say this for the reason that obviously the maintenance of this section, as well as any other work that is to be done, is the responsibility of the Region of Crete. Of course, if there is a request to the Ministry - and I say it publicly - we are prepared to help the region, if necessary, with regard to some parts in order to make an upgrade. I would like to inform you, however, that a sum of EUR 1,299,000 was signed today concerning the maintenance of the road network and the vertical axis of Agia Varvara - Apmarma - Saints Ten. So we're talking about maintenance, about what you're talking about. I should also like to inform you, or rather to remind you, that we have already included in the Public Investment Programme, a specific contractor of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, a sum of EUR 4,076,000 which will, of course, be used to carry out the work when the studies mentioned above are completed. So, Mr President, you realise that at least for the section which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport we have already approved money both for maintenance, with the decision signed today and for construction, once the studies have been completed by the Crete Development Agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u164	Was it signed by the contractor today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u165	The maintenance issue was signed by the Ministry. With regard to the work, I repeat, the studies will be completed which, according to the timetable given to us by the Crete Development Agency, will be by the end of the year. We have already committed a sum, which is on a specific contractor, in order to proceed with the work. So, in conclusion, you realize that the Ministry has a specific design for this region and we, once again, consider that the integration of the vertical axes is of paramount importance for the development not only of the area in southern Heraklion, but also of the wider area of Crete. And don't forget that anyway it's part of a broader plan. In the next few days anyway, as you know very well, the Prime Minister will announce the design for the North Axis of Crete. So you realize that this is part of all this planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. We continue with the third question under No 772-17-2021 of the First Circuit of the Greek Communist Party, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "To withdraw the avenger and illegal redundancies of workers at the Recyclable Materials Selection Center (CIDA) Heraklion and take all necessary measures to protect the health of workers". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this company, which has been operating for a year since the Recyclable Material sorting Centre in Heraklion, has been in seven redundancies between 19 March and 21 March in seven workers' redundancies, one of which has been elected trade unionist in the union's board of workers from the total of fifty five employees employed by the company. By decision of Heraklion Inspection Corps, 1-4-2021 these redundancies were considered invalid as they infringe Law 1387/83 on collective redundancies. This is a decision which the employer refuses to implement and therefore does not restore workers to their jobs. These redundancies took place a week after the strong protest of workers for the company's approach to paying workers from their pocket EUR 16 per person to carry out a coronary test and while two of their colleagues had already found themselves positive. Moreover, on 22-321, the employer, even with the threat of the police, tried to prevent the bureau of the branch club, the association of private employees of Heraklion and a member of the board of the Labour Centre which was found at the factory in order to meet with the management of the company in order to be informed of the redundancies. These incidents come to be added to a very long list of employers' arbitrariness and bullying of workers, which began by this contractor with the launch of the project in January 2020 and after the employees had given another big fight to return to work, ensuring jobs and employment relations. Since then, redundancies, non-renewable contracts, suspension of contracts, unpaid leave are only some of the measures implemented by the company in parallel to accidents at work, terrorism, threats, raw intervention in the organisation of workers from the beginning of the pandemic. Those who remained to work in this very dangerous and unhealthy environment were invited to continue processing waste by hand only with gloves and masks. Air in the contractor's sails, of course, have given all governments over time in the legislative framework they have shaped, allowing employers to literally perpetuate in the workplace, but also the municipality of Heraklion, which has been following the tactics 'I do not know - I have not heard - I have not seen', perpetuating the problem. In the end, this is the dramatic consequences of privatisation of recycling and a whole range of waste management and all this on the workers' backs. So we ask you, Minister: What measures will you take to implement the RDP decision and immediately withdraw workers' redundancies, stop terrorism, threats and prevent trade union action from being taken, ensure all health protection measures in the OSH...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Comrade, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u169	I raise the question. Including free repetitive coronary detection tests with the responsibility of the Ministry, the Municipality of Heraklion and the contractor. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Syntagakis, in a broader context, your question concerns a major issue for the government and the country's development model, such as environmental development. The economic development of the 21st century can only go hand in hand with practical environmental protection. In essence, however strange it seems at first sight, what we call sustainable development is essentially the other aspect of social policy. It is not development unless it concerns citizens and it is not sustainable if it does not protect the environment. Government choices have also been reflected at international level. I am referring to the signing by our country of the Paris Agreement and our commitment to be consistent with the UN's seventeen objectives for sustainable development. We must as a country focus and invest in the areas of sustainable development, which, however, will be environmentally friendly and, as far as possible, will not have a significant negative impact on the local communities, nor will it be wider. In this context, recyclable material management centres are important linkages in the chain of green development. Mr. Synonymous, with your question, you raise two issues. The first concerns the revocation of the seven redundancies for which there has been immediate intervention by the APRC. The second question concerns compliance with the measures envisaged for the protection of workers, including free testing of the coronary. Let's get them one by one. As regards the first, the company, Creta Recycling IKE, employed at the beginning of March ninety-six of which fifty-five at the Recycling Materials Selection Centre in Heraklion. According to the RCF, the company made seven redundancies in March 2021 without following the relevant collective redundancies procedure. The Labour Relations Inspectorate at the request of the Association of Private Employees of Heraklion appointed a trialogue meeting on 1 April 2021, but without reaching an agreement between the Parties. The APRC was therefore requested within five days to provide explanation documents from the company, as well as the withdrawal of redundancies as a result of an infringement of the collective redundancies law. When the deadline for the submission of explanation documents by the employer expired, the Labour Relations Inspectorate imposed an administrative fine of EUR 4 000 for breach of the provisions of Law No 1387/1983, as in force, for collective redundancies, i.e. to exceed the prescribed limit. But then there was a significant development which, from your question, does not seem to be aware of it. As the RCF informed us after an investigation into the IT system "ERGANI" found that the four of the seven fired in March were re-entered on 5 May 2021. Therefore, following the re-introduction of four of the seven initially fired people, as the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Labour informs us, there is now no question of collective redundancies in this company. The law you refer to, namely Law No.1387/1983 as amended in 2017, explicitly states that collective redundancies in enterprises employing between twenty and a hundred and fifty employees are those that exceed every calendar month six people. With regard to the termination of the three contracts of employment which have not been revoked, obviously responsible for judging whether they are abusive or not, it is justice. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I have exceeded my time, so on the second issue you raise, which concerns measures to protect workers from the consequences of the pandemic and free tests, I shall refer to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u172	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u173	Although I tried to keep an eye on the Minister, because of the mask it wasn't easy to hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u174	The four have been re-entered. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u175	I have heard that, but I'm just saying it because I may have some issues I didn't hear right. Let me begin by mentioning the development issues. You know this is the basic motto of all governments: Development with an environmental mark. Sustainable development. Green development. I was young and old, and I hear the exact same expressions. Whether it's PASOK, whether it's SYRIZA, or it's New Democracy, we hear the exact same thing. Growth is nothing neutral. I think you know that very well. There are various kinds of growth. Developing a few people at the expense of many and developing meets the many and modern social needs at the expense of the few. All the rest is - let me - a shadow. The story is as you said it. I have nothing to doubt. I think that's what it is. The four were re-entered. All seven were not re-entered, i.e. the other three, including the trade unionist. This is a question and you must answer us very specifically. We therefore call for the reintegration of all workers. Since 2012, I have told you in the protology, a very hard struggle was given, and I would even say a game that was original and pan-Hellenic, and in terms of the duration and the resilience that this strike race had and had before it all, it had the employer - then it was other companies, but you will tell me a company was then, a company is now, the same interest! They are all looking at how to secure their profits in a competitive jungle - the government, the companies, the "Greek Recycling Company", successively all governments and municipal authorities, and it was really enviable and titanium this struggle. It is clear that they will not stop here and will not stop here because they have acquired this experience of struggle and duration and endurance over time and are continuing to propose that they ensure jobs, their acquired rights, respect for health and safety measures, the recognition and payment of heavy and unhealthy intellectuals on the basis of the subject of their work. That's what you have to tell us about. As a JRC, we believe that, as things are evolving, there is an even greater trade and privatisation in the area of waste management as a whole, which will lead to greater exploitation of workers and with data on the bills that you bring with the removal of the eighth, ten-hour work, unpaid work and saying. That is why we are putting the question of putting an end to privatization. Any business activity in the management function should be abolished. We say 'no' to the incineration of waste, 'no' to the shifting of weights to the backs of the people's layers through the payroll. There should be a single final management and disposal body for waste that designs all people's needs and, of course, with permanent staff and full rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Syntagmakis, I believe that the criticism of green development you make at first is not fair. Environmental protection did not exist as a matter at all until the 1970s. Since then, all developed countries have been gradually up on the agenda and more and more measures have been taken. You said that this is a matter of capitalist development, just to remind you of the extremely bad environmental record that existed in the countries of the old Eastern bloc, and so on, but let me come to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u178	These were the arguments of the past interior KIC ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u179	But you don't answer them, that's the point. As you mentioned in your question, the reason for today's debate was the redundancies that have been claimed - I read for a week - after protesting workers for the company's migration to pay from their pockets of EUR 16 per person the coronary test. On these very issues, however, as I said in my protology, there was a direct intervention - intervention by the EIA. Ever since, according to the information of the Labour Inspectorate of Heraklion Crete, no complaint or reference has been made to the relevant agency, namely the Health and Safety Department of Heraklion, which concerns either breaches of safety and health legislation at work or a new dispersion of coronary cases to workers at the Recyclable Material Selection Centre in Heraklion. I should also like to point out that there has been no increase in the frequency and severity of accidents at the Heraklion Stealing Centre during the management of the company "Creta Recycling Monopoly" than was the case in the past. In particular, they have announced to the Health and Safety Inspectorate of Heraklion in 2020 and this year seven accidents at work, but fortunately none of them were identified as serious. I would also like to point out that, as you may know in the company, there is a committee of health and safety workers at work in accordance with Article 4 of Law 3850/2010. According to the SEA, the workers' committee has not raised a question of quantitative and qualitative inadequacy of the personal protective equipment granted to workers. With regard to the management of the confirmed cases of COVID19 among workers following notification to the undertaking of the first case to an authorised worker, the remaining workers were subjected preventive antibody examination to detect the coronary without any cost to them and the second worker found to be coronary positive was subjected to quarantine. Therefore, it does not seem that your claim for tests on payment is correct. I would also point out that in the context of limiting the spread of the coronary, the Government has undertaken the cost of carrying out the checks, the rapid-tests, to undertakings of more than 20 workers. The project provides that workers in these enterprises can apply for rapid-tests up to twice a month through the specific platform set up for this purpose in the Labour Directorate, ‘ergasia.testing.gov.gr’ and has been fully operational for some time. The employees of the undertaking concerned are entitled to participate in the programme, whereas, as we have heard, the company has informed them and has also given them permission to go to the test site. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the upgrading of the EDP. The new Labour Law strengthens the role of the Labour Inspectorate by turning it into an independent administrative authority, the Labour Inspectorate. As an independent authority, it will have administrative and operational autonomy, a feature which will give it the impartiality required for the execution of its mission. This reform upgrades the role of the Labour Inspectorate, with the aim of better protection of workers' rights and the proper functioning of the market. In other words, we are upgrading and strengthening a body crucial to the smooth functioning of the labour market, but therefore also the product market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u180	We are now continuing with the second question under number 3257/1-2021 of the cycle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'We need to take care of the government in order to protect all workers in tourism and food'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I was surprised, Minister, that your last sentence of yours is discriminatory. It's worth it to tell us who he shares. I'm coming to my question. On 10 May we tabled the question with the information and the assessment that one of the three firms in the focus, despite the opening up of a number of restrictive measures, such as internal spaces, etc., will not open up and that the two companies in the three companies will not absorb all the workers who had before the normal operation. In tourism, while there has been a preparation since May 15th and then open, there is a phase difference. It is believed that since the mid-June and then we will have significant flows towards our country if things go well. With this in mind, we have asked what measures you will take to support food and tourism businesses in relation to workers, job suspensions, with the right to re-entry or without the right to re-entry, such as in some companies, and of course the possibility of a unilateral one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-over. We also asked about the other measures that need to be taken in the transitional period. Indeed, on 18 May you announced measures relating mainly to the suspensions in the area of tourism and the possibility for May and June. By specialising what remains, what I would like to see with the question and tell us how we deal with it after June if you anticipate something for the workers who will not be able to absorb tourism. The second element is for those who do not have the right to compulsory re-entry, which is several thousand, to tell us what is envisaged as an essential support measure? In addition, I would remind you that the ECA's badges have not yet appeared since last year with the unilateral suspension, which, in another question you said, is under way to resolve this issue. From your unilateral inhibitors again, I say they haven't shown up yet. There are some self-tests issues and their free disposal to guides and other categories that are recorded as self-employed professionals and do not allow them the platform. More generally, we would like you to tell us, if there is any question of information about the priority vaccinations in these people in the first line of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u182	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u183	Mr Kegeroglu, I would be happy to answer all your questions, but some of the last questions you have just raised were not in your written question. So, all about coronary, medical, etc....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u184	Tell us everything you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u185	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u186	Developments are running, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u187	Look, Mr Kegeroglu, when I got your question, I was wondering if you still want to talk about it, because, as you yourself said, most of the things in your question have been answered. So let's start over. Mr Kegeroglu, with your question you will allow me first of all to refer from the Step of the House to the support that the government has already given to the tourism and food industry during the pandemic. As you know, the coronary pandemic has caused a dramatic decline in tourist activity throughout the world. The World Tourism Organisation estimates that the reduction of international tourist and spending in 2020 exceeded 70%, perhaps even 75% compared to 2019. In this environment, strong losses have been recorded by Greek tourism, which is a sector of major importance to the Greek economy, both in terms of its contribution to GDP and employment and its contribution to investment and in particular its current account balance. For this reason, the Government has taken measures to support the tourism sector and related sectors, such as food and transport. I have referred several times to our country's misfortune over the time of the pandemic. Especially with regard to tourism, while in 2019 the tourist movement was launched and the forecasts for 2020 were particularly optimistic for our country, unfortunately the koron virus suspended all this dynamic. That is why, even today, a year and a half later, we want to do our best, so that this summer will really be the beginning of the relaunching of the economy after the health adventure, which, unfortunately, has not yet closed its cycle. However, with the progress of the vaccinations - I would remind you that over 100 thousand of our fellow citizens are vaccinated daily - we have good reasons to hope that the worst is behind us. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has acted methodically and targetedly to support businesses and workers as effectively as possible. More specifically, since the beginning of the pandemic, 36.5 billion euros have been transferred or budgeted to support households and businesses. This is too high for the country's budgetary data, and even as a percentage of GDP moves above the European average. Measures totalling 24 billion have already been taken for 2020 and 2021. Although we had initially entered the budget of 7.5 billion, there is finally a budget of 11.6 billion. Only in the Ministry of Labour the level of payments for the labour market protection index has already exceeded 7 billion, while only the beneficiaries of the actions of our Ministry exceed three million people. Now, within the framework of employment support measures for the next day, the 'COMPANY WORK' programme is expanding as well as the criteria for granting subsidies through the programme for the creation of 100 000 jobs. Especially in the tourism sector, a new package was announced last week by the Ministries of Finance, Labour and Tourism. In particular, four measures were announced. For seasonal re-entry workers in tourist accommodation and tour buses that will be re-introduced, the right to be subject to the suspension of a special contract of employment with compensation for the months of May and June of 2021 and for the months following, from July to September, the workers will be able to join the programme ‘COMPANY WORK’ with full cover of employers and insurance contributions. For seasonal re-entry workers in tourist accommodation and tourist buses not re-entered in May and June, the right to be subject to the suspension of a special contract of employment with unilateral declarations in the ‘ERGAN’ system shall be granted. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Thirdly, other seasonal non-compulsory reintegration workers will be able to join the Ministry of Labour from 1 June to six months after being recruited in the programme of 100 000 jobs. With the incorporation of their recruitment in this programme all insurance contributions will be covered, while their wages will be subsidized to EUR 200. Finally, fourth measure, tour guides and tourist attendants will receive special purpose compensation for the months of March, April and May 2021 with a unilateral declaration in the ‘ERGAN’ system. It is very important that these support measures will be implemented immediately with the opening of tourism. In this way, insecurity for businesses and workers is weakened, and in other words, we support tourism as much as we can. I should also like to point out that the Ministry of Finance is considering including in the programme for the grant of fixed costs and businesses employing seasonal staff such as tourist accommodation. This measure follows on from the amounts already allocated to the tourism sector through the repayable advance. The total amount transferred to hotels through the repayable advance is already estimated at EUR 290 million, while another EUR 60 million has been transferred to room rental companies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I've spent a lot of time. Answers to the other questions I'm going to give to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u189	So from your communications, Mr Minister, they come from two - three questions in particular. You said that for those who are obliged to re-entry there would be the right in May and June to suspend them. If in July, in September, the company will not be able to do so, will it not be possible for an employee to be suspended? The extra in the company's judgement or, in any case, during the traffic in tourists will not be able to come out? The EMPLOYMENT Programme operates for those who work with a grant. That's what we know at least. Now, for those who do not have to re-enter the seasonal workers, there is a great contradiction here. You announced a programme from which the unemployed will get two hundred euros a month. I've got the ministry press release here. Two hundred euros and the corresponding insurance contributions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u190	Is it insurance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u191	Yeah. When someone is unemployed, from the unemployment benefit alone, without taking into account children, families, etc., it takes four hundred and sixty euros. There is a very big contradiction here. It's too small the amount. Five hundred thirty-four plus four insurance contributions get when they're suspended. Why would she take two hundred? Should this be reviewed? In particular, if it is from the ESDP, it should be possible to be at least at the level of the unemployment benefit if it cannot be the level of the suspension. So, with 200 euros, if you have reservations, how will he and his family survive? It is therefore two very important questions, particularly for those who do not have a re-entry obligation for the seasons to which they are working. The third point which I have put to you is a response, but not implemented. You're committed that the badges in the FBI will be shown by the monomers. They haven't shown up yet. I don't know if you answered it and I didn't understand it, but there's still no effect on it. Furthermore, because you announced - in the press release of the Ministry - for tourist escorts, guides, etc. March, April and May with a unilateral declaration in the Erganis system that they will receive the special-purpose compensation, I do not know what you intend to do for June for those who do not work or for other months, especially for what I said to you these days. In order not to ask a question next week, there's an issue through the Ministry's platform. Those considered to be employees make the request for an EBRD, gives them the self-test free of charge, through social security benefits. These people have not joined this right. It may be software, because they are considered professionals of self-employed people and the application has understood only the workers. I'm putting this to you. We will not come back to the next team. Now people have to do tests, now I'm putting it to you. That was the extra. Everything else comes from the fact that the measures you have taken are in a positive direction, are problematic, but they do not solve the whole problem or solve the problem for everyone, there is no care for everyone. That is why I give you these issues in addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u192	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President, and thank Mr Kegeroglu. Before I start the main part of my dentistry, in a piece there must be a misunderstanding. What I mentioned about people who do not have a reoccupation obligation is that they are not an unemployment benefit or anything, they are a job subsidy if they find a job. The subsidy is powerful. There are also employers' contributions, plus 200 euros a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u194	If he doesn't find anything we say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u195	That's what I'm going to answer. The second thing I would like to say is that we must not forget in addition that, apart from employment support measures, there are all the measures that have to do with training and retraining. It's not that everyone's gonna find a job, and we know that thing. And in the best times that didn't happen here. Now, as I mentioned in my prototype, a huge effort is being made by the government to cover as much as possible their affected businesses and workers. We must not forget, however, the very hard budgetary constraints the country faces, even if the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact have been suspended on a timely basis, even if the country is taking part in the European Central Bank's programme of quantitative relaxation. You in particular, Mr Kegeroglu, have been Minister in very difficult circumstances - and I would say very successful Minister, and I think you are very well aware of what I am saying. Now, in your questions, in relation to the specific cases that you mention about workers who cannot be paid specific allowances because of the non-imaging of their insurance history, I have received from the OAED, this has already been settled. The necessary instructions have been notified to the competent services of the Agency in order to enable them to calculate the insurance days corresponding to the special purpose allowance period following a unilateral declaration. In fact, for this purpose, the corresponding internet interface application between the "ERGANI" information system and the integrated OAED information system has been implemented using all the necessary actions. Now, as far as the delay in granting unemployment benefits is concerned, according to the relevant information from the competent body, OAED, there is an express obligation on their part to deal with claims relating to the payment of unemployment benefits or seasonal allowances does not exceed ninety days, although - according to their experience - even during peak periods, this does not normally exceed forty-five days. Finally, with regard to the issue of working days required for the granting of unemployment benefit, regular unemployment subsidies are granted to the persons in the tourism and food industry subject to the basic condition that they should carry out a hundred days of work in the last 12 months before the end of their employment relationship. The conditions for granting unemployment benefit for a person who is the first to receive benefits are, for the first time, to carry out two working days during the previous two years, with the exception of the last two, and to carry out at least eighty working days each year. In the context of the emergency measures taken to deal with the pandemic, the number needed for the first category of workers was reduced from 100 to fifty. At the same time, this year, everyone was granted an insurance rating without considering whether in 2020 they had not even had the necessary fifty days of insurance, and in the same way all special categories for which insurance capacity was renewed by specific provisions in previous years. This ensured access to health care for both themselves and the indirect members of their families. I think that, on the basis of this data, it is clear that the government's policy has decided to implement throughout this period: support for the sectors affected and preparation for the next day in order to protect as many jobs as possible. But you understand very well that everything cannot be done for everyone. As the economy and society are at the moment, we must plan carefully and correctly for the next day and for this design certainly justice, equality and efficiency are the main axes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. We are now continuing with Question No 756/13-5-2021, the fourth timely question of the second of the Athens Department of Athens, Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The lack of maintenance and care of the Tykourism forests - Pefkis leads to a risk of destruction". Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u197	Minister, I am coming back to my question today from 2 April 2021 on a serious environmental crime committed before our eyes, but those responsible for the Morela forests, Kasdagli, Argyri and Varvaressos. These are the forest areas of the Municipality of Tykovris and Pefkis, as well as the neighbouring municipalities of the northern suburbs of Athens. No maintenance and no care for pine trees and other trees, but also for the surrounding areas. As I write to my question and I read it to you quite precisely, the situation in which forest areas are located in the area of Lykoby and Pefki, according to testimony from residents and visitors, is characterized by the abandonment of these sites and more specifically by the lack of more general care of the trees, but also of these surrounding areas, grass, bushes, plants, etc. I can tell you a lot about other cases, but let us focus on the huge problem for the wolf forests - Pefkis. Indicative of the gravity of the situation is that relatively recently, on March 19, 2021, the city itself issued a press release addressing both the Pentelis Forest and the Benakeio Plant Health Institute. In this bulletin, the municipality points out the obvious for any visitor, that drying effects are seen in several pine trees, which poses serious risks even for the future life of these trees. Benacio immediately responded with his most official scientific research: that the insect caucasus of pineapple has affected these trees, and that the disease with microbial insecticides, which are biological, absolutely safe and which directly combat this plant disease, needs to be treated immediately. I note, however, that in my turn too, because I still follow the subject closely, like other issues in the wider region which are related to the environment and the quality of our life, that, unfortunately, nothing has happened since then, I have received no reply from your Ministry, nor, of course, the treatment of our trees and the restoration of our natural landscape. What do we expect, however, to be done, Minister? To completely destroy the pine trees and the rest of the vegetation in Pefki, Lykobysis and the northern suburbs of Attica and further downgrade the capital's environment? I urge you to look at the matter more seriously, because the ecosystem and the microclimate of the wider region cannot withstand any further deterioration, not to mention a decline. So I repeat here my question about exactly what your planning is, in order to take immediate action to carry out controls and actions before we lead to total drying of the pine trees and other trees in the region and, of course, when, at last, we will see the Forest Areas of the Pentelis Forest directly taking over the pathogens observed and not deafing in the calls of the municipality, the citizens, and also of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u199	By the way, I inform you that, due to the rise in temperature, all these thrown branches in many parts of the area can no longer be harvested for combustion, as easily perceived. Why, then, do we not apply another solution, which is, indeed, existing? As I learn, in Dionysus there is a special branch cutting machine, which turns them into legends. So why not use it for immediate collection of all these dangerous piles from the wider area of the northern suburbs? Minister, you must make immediate decisions, because the region is in danger of becoming an intrusion of fire at some point and we must mourn not only the end of the green that has been left but also, possibly, property and even human lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u200	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u201	I'd like to say two words and close. So it is all I wanted to say to you, and I am also making an appeal: to take measures here and now before it is too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u202	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Alexopoulou, as your question concerns forest land, you will allow me to say a few words about the consequences of the great fire that we have all experienced in the last few days in Shino, Alepochori and Megaras. First of all, I would like to assure the inhabitants of these regions that there will be a reforestation of all the burnt areas in the process of natural regeneration where possible, given that in the fifty thousand acres of the virgin forest there have been no other fires in the past and therefore there is a margin for the forest to recover. Of course, we watch it satellitely with scientists, in all ways forest science dictates. If, however, the natural regeneration at any point in this area is left behind and does not succeed by itself in the forest, we will incorporate these areas into the National Reafforestation Plan, which is financed by national resources and by the Recovery Fund, so that we can be sure that the last measure of burning land will again be green. You will allow me, Mrs Alexopoulou, to add something else, as we see too many fast news circulating online, that the fire was infinitely intended to be created, spaceed wind turbines or some other scenarios. I would like to make it clear: Firstly, it will not change the nature of the burnt areas. As the Constitution stipulates and demands, these areas will immediately be judged to be resurrected and will be subject to the normal procedure. In other words, the use will not change their status either. Even half a wind turbines will not be spaced, let alone no quarry will be built, nor will it be allowed to operate on burnt land, either for bauxite, for marble or for nothing. I am sorry to take time from my reply, Mrs Alexopoulou, but I think it has a topicality, because we must also give the fact that we, the Ministry of the Environment, are going to do our utmost, so that the forest will come back, habitats and natural systems, forests, to come back with help, monitoring and with all the measures that are allowed and which we must do. Of course, now I'm coming to the woods of Pine - Twilight. You are asking me in your question, too, what is the public authority that assumes responsibility? First of all, let us say that whether it is Pefki - Twilight or for any other part of Greece the rules are uniform and the same. In other words, where there is woodland vegetation within the boundaries, it is taken care of by the municipality concerned. So the Municipality of Lykovri and Pefkis has the responsibility to deal with the forests within the settlements or the boundaries of the settlements and the altars. For any work that has to be done, such as the one you mentioned about how to deal with the caterpillar, which is quite right, your question and I will answer you, a simple step must be taken: the municipality must ask the forest office - which belongs to the decentralised administration, namely the Decentralised administration of Attica - to present the study and say that I want to take these steps and then, with the control and supervision of the decentralised administration and the Forest Service, to proceed with the resolution efforts. So, for all three forests of Morela, Kasdagli, and Argyri, it is the municipality that bears sole responsibility in cooperation, of course, with the Pentelis Forest. I'll answer the second part of my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u204	Please, Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u205	Minister, I would like to be honest and to tell you that I am still extremely concerned about the situation with the natural environment in the region, and that is because not just until now, the necessary moves have not been made, but I fear that the will of the government does not exist. Now, from what you told us, it is a matter of the municipality or the forest and I have received a response from the forest office, namely, they said, "I have a thousand five hundred areas. Where should I begin?’ However, I am afraid that the will to protect the environment is indeed and our natural wealth is something, of course, a little sad. From that point on, because many of the gatherings can emerge, one would certainly not want to imagine what would happen if, given the rather lukewarm response from the Ministry and the relevant authorities, land cruisers and various kinds of exploiters were destroyed over time, and this last few green that was left in the urban fabric of the northern suburbs. I will say this again and it is my main position that environmental protection is a matter for all of us. It is not a matter of paradoxical and narrow policy and, at last, there are solutions and the most responsible have been identified. So let the mechanism be mobilised. Let the Forestry be active. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over by the H' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Sakhara Sakhara]] You should be aware, Minister, that we will not allow such a big issue to run along with undetermined consequences for nature and for the health of citizens. In particular, we should have been on the same side and not across the street on such an important subject. In any case, given your reply, I believe that the Ministry will act immediately by mobilising the office and the mechanism concerned, let alone when we have all the official information that I have already given you. We are therefore waiting, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleague, Mrs Alexopoulos, we are not against this at all. The fact that you're filing these questions with content and the fact that we, too, on behalf of the Ministry, are answering means that we are bound by the common interest in forest protection, especially in peri-urban greens or urban greens, which, as you quite rightly said, is an indication of quality of life. We can't let anyone downgrade it. So let me answer you now, to see specifically what is happening with this drying effect in the pine trees of the Municipality of Pefki - Twitsis. First of all, let us say that unfortunately this phenomenon occurs in many regions of Greece, especially Attica. The scientists of the National Institute for Agricultural Research, which is part of the Ministry for Rural Development, have carried out the examinations - you said so - and the municipality, at the same time, in March, which passed us two months ago, addressed the Pentelis Forestry and the Benacy Plant Health Institute - quite rightly noted it yourself. Samples were sent for examination, and according to the replies, they were found to be "insult from the insect cape of the pine - pine-campus". Interactions with microbial insecticides suitable for biological control, not chemically, may be performed. The Institute's relevant directive therefore states that the appropriate time to deal with the insect is the time period between October and November, when larvae are hatched and before small caterpillars form bags. So we're watching, we're in contact with both the institute and the municipality and the forest office. We're watching this. Of course, if the Forestry, as you said, responded "I have a thousand and a half places to head", we will help the Forestry. The reason why, in the good sense, is your question and the statement you made, according to the office's reply to you. We're going to help this office, not a thousand five hundred, a thousand five hundred points to go. We will find the way, we will give him the credit, we will activate them, because for us the green, whether they are in the city or outside, it is the gem of the crown of this quality of life. Mayor Pekis - Tsos Mavridis... Do I feel, Madam President, that you, too, live in that area? Because I used to go through with the power plant and watched in some houses "Did Sakorafa" and I say somewhere here is the President - then you weren't president, but here you are. I'm coming back. So, speaking with the mayor, he told us that he was working with the forest office closely and continues the trimming of trees that had fallen from bad luck, while he pointed out that for dandy caves he would follow the instructions closely and we would be next to him to strengthen it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too, Minister, for being time-consistent. Will the third question and application be debated now under No 5066/526/16-2021 of the motion for a resolution tabled by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of 'Illegal approval as the investment strategy for eight new wind farms in Evia'? The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. You've scanned all over Greece with tours, so it makes sense to get tired. Mr Minister, this is a question which has been tabled in writing and we are debating it today because it has not been answered. It is about the fact that in this Chamber your Minister, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Skrekas, had expressly stated that no licence is approved if the municipality's capacity for wind turbines is not examined on the basis of the ERC's spatial plan. Indeed, he said here that there was a decision by the Karystos Municipal Council to overcome the capacity that we asked for in writing, as is reasonable, and you do not give it to us. Whenever we, on the contrary, have decisions of the Karystos Municipal Council asking for no other wind turbines to enter, we really want you to present this decision to us. I also have the RAE lists, which I submit to the Minutes. While in any other case of being exceeded, which is a municipal council decision, the decision on the RAE site refers to the decision, in the case of Karystos suddenly there is no reference. You also approved through the Interministerial Integration of these eight new wind farms really in all the mountain peaks of Evia, with a hundred and eight wind turbines, when Evia already has six hundred more. And you have approved it on the basis that it will produce too many jobs. In fact, you referred to a hundred and eighty-seven jobs, when the jobs so far for the sixteen parks, that is, six times the number of wind turbines, were only sixty-two. So we also need to document this claim of yours because otherwise it is actually illegal to join the strategic investment in this project, which finds the whole society against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Arseni, Mr Arsenis, I understand your interest in one of the largest RES investments in the renewable energy sector not only in Greece but also throughout Europe. Besides, we do not meet specifically in our country every day investments that exceed half a billion euros. You have often asked questions - and you do well - how we go as a government and as a country in the field of renewable energy sources. What we are not tired of is that deflation and decarbonisation of the economy is the highest, first priority of the Mitsotakis government. We want the mix of clean energy in electricity production to rise very high and we are also very ahead of the timetables. So that is why bureaucracy is fighting for a faster placement, but with the tough rules of national and Union law, so that we can be 1000% sure that the environment is protected, and of course taxly we are dealing with the situation in the market as it should be, so that new jobs can be motivated. Now I'll start with the second one. You say that for jobs while initially sixty-two were provided for, we report a hundred eighty-two for these projects, ELATEAM in southern Evia. First, the first project included or envisaged a production capacity of 227.7 MW, together with the modification request submitted reached 285.6 MW. A request for an amendment to the validity with an increase of 165 MW to 175 MW has been submitted for the latter. So, after the changes that will become as a whole, we are talking about real power for the project at 460.6 MW. Why am I telling you this? For it changes two elements, firstly, the project budget, which now reaches 489,000 euros, but also jobs, given the growth of the MW and reaches eighty-eighty-two jobs. This investment therefore fulfils all the conditions for joining the category of strategic investments. The other thing you asked me, I'm going to tell my dentistry, so I can have some more time. It is for municipal council decisions and whether or not they affected the placement. In my denture, to have the time, I'll answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, what we are talking about here is not a simple time-consuming one. This is a question and a statement which has not been answered, and we are bringing you to the House to submit the documents. We do not want you to tell us your opinion, we want you to submit the relevant documents. That is what you did not ask in the written question, and that is why it has been turned into a timely one, to bring it in. So we expressly ask you for the decision of the Municipality of Karystos that calls for the capacity to be increased and also the documentation on jobs. I will repeat: Six hundred three wind turbines so far in Evia have created sixty two jobs. You say that a hundred four wind turbines will create a hundred eighty two jobs. And to a little kid, it won't make any sense. It doesn't make a numerical sense, it doesn't make any method and consider it meaning. We want you to hand over the study to us, otherwise something really is going on here. And because the law is express and asks for both conditions to be respected both of the jobs and of the budget, you are violating the law and the ministerial decision to join the strategic investments of the eight new wind farms, the hundreds of six wind turbines are violating the law. Now, however, we are also impressed by your recent statements on the basis of 'energypress', which announces that you made a teleconferencing conference - at the end of February - was this - with the coordinators of decentralised administration. And while we were discussing here in the timeliness and we were discussing whether the commitments of your predecessor, Mr Economou, will be complied with, because of the negative opinions we will have the non-approval of the wind farms in Samothraki and elsewhere, and while announcing that you will also reduce the maximum amount that you will have to set up the wind turbines instead of these changes to the most positive ones, we see that you here have stated - and instructed the coordinators of the decentralised administrations - that if an investment is in line with the law, it should be approved by the bodies of decentralised administration, which are the only ones responsible for the final decision, despite the possible negative opinions of municipalities and regions. Seriously, is that your picture of the consultation? Do you believe that, Mr Amyras and on behalf of the Mitsotakis Government, the opinions do not play any role? So you're moving today on to the destructive investment in the Nymphian, which all finds them across the street? I'll go. There is now an appeal against these wind parks in Evia. We invite you not to proceed, as you did with the Acheloos diversion, while a trial is pending at the S.H.E. and do not go any further, as you do, unfortunately also with the Regional Ioannina with the 'Chamara' wetland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, we're not here to speak opinions. We're talking about data, evidence. Most of what I heard from your mouth were opinions and most of them unfounded. You ask me whether it is illegal or not to approve the interministerial investment we are discussing. Of course it's legal. But is it now possible for an investment of that size to ask such a question? From a sieve everything has passed, from a sieve and from the services and the co-ordinate bodies, from a sieve and sieve and again a sieve. That is why many times the public administration is accused of being too late to permits. Yes, that's true, it's late, as it goes all through the crisp of critical thought - and not just - and control. So, is it possible to approve such a large investment project of about half a billion euro not having the legal conditions and procedures? Is that possible? What country do you think you're living in? How much do you underestimate both Greek public administration and Greek society? And let us make it clear, it is time: it is a fact, therefore, that the maximum permitted coverage of land, land from wind facilities in primary local government agencies can be increased with the agreement, of course, of the municipal council. However, the municipality of Kafereos belongs to the areas of wind priority and at the same time to projects belong to the category of strategic investment. Therefore, according to Article 7 of the Special Spatial Spatial Spatial, the number of wind turbines can be increased by transferring the number of wind turbines from all the municipalities to which the project extends. However, there is a limit, and this is 30%, above which the number of wind turbines cannot exceed, those corresponding to the municipality with the greatest surplus of unseen wind turbine. Laws say that. So the placement of the wind parks that we are debating today was made on the basis of this provision, and that is why the Municipality of Karystos did not require the agreement. The Special Spatial, the law says it! What really happened? The increase in capacity brought to the Municipality of Kafereos was the result of the transfer of a number of wind turbines from the Municipality of Marble. In order to avoid misunderstandings, however, I shall submit to you the RAE document number 87735/20 May 2021, which details the procedure that has been followed and in which it is clear that there was an incorrect answer from RAE, on which you are relying on the question you put in March. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, George Amyras, presents the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] And one last thing: we have the Spatial Planning Department at the Ministry of the Environment. At this address, therefore, the environmental study for this investment has not yet been submitted. When it is submitted, I can assure you that our Ministry's services will examine thoroughly - as they do in every application file. I would therefore urge you, too, to trust national legislation - which is harder than Union legislation - and, of course, our Union and our services and our political will, any political will says that environmental protection is our new GPS, compliance with the laws and rules of authorisation, too. Can these two be noted? Of course, when laws and Union law are respected up to the last line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, too, Minister. And now we are going to the second with number 757/13-5-2021, a timely question for the first time in the Halkidiki Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following the history of the Halkidiki Revolution in separate chapters in school books". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zoe Macreys. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u217	Madam Minister, the Halkidiki Revolution, as you know, has been an important chapter in the overall history of the Revolution of 1821. It is true, however, that the Halkidians' struggle is unknown to many, as well as its important contribution to the progress of the Liberation War. This is due to the brief and incomplete accountability of the events in Halkidiki during this period in school books. So what does that mean? That a very important part of the contribution of our country's liberation remains generally unknown with few references to school books. I would stress that on this issue there have been repeated efforts by local authorities, bodies, associations, teachers of Halkidiki, in order to make known the important contribution to the consolidation of the Revolution of 1821 with actions, lectures, educational seminars, while the Presidential Decree for the designation of 17 May as a celebration of local importance for Halkidiki has not yet been adopted. Recently, the Panghalkidikidian Association of Aristotle has launched an apprenticeship competition on the subject: "The Halkidiki Revolution", which you have approved. The need, too, to integrate the history of the Halkidiki Revolution into a separate chapter in the historical schoolbooks, I pointed it out by letter to you last December, but without getting an answer. So, knowing the sensitivity that you must have on such issues, I ask you, Minister, that you intend to give a positive recommendation to the relevant schoolbook editorial committee to include in the curriculum of history a separate chapter on the Halkidiki Revolution, and if so, with what timetable, in order to finally satisfy a fair request from the Halkidikiites and restore this historical and educational gap in our country's history? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, Mr President, thank you for recognising the sensitivity of the Ministry and of course I also give you that designation. In reply to your questions, I would like to mention the following: The work of forming the curriculum of history has already been undertaken by an approved team of scientists from all levels of education. These scientists were selected in accordance with the procedures set out in the Act ‘Strengthening the curriculum and the creation of primary and secondary education materials’ with code 5035542, as well as the ‘Training of teachers in the curriculum and primary and secondary education materials’ with code 5035543. These scientists will form the curriculum on the basis of scientific criteria. After the adoption of the new curriculum, teachers will be trained and piloted in primary and secondary schools. This process will be completed by writing history school books, on the basis of the new curricula, which is intended to be used for the first time in the school year 2023-2024. The way and process of teaching history lessons, according to the new curriculum and the new books of history, follow the established pattern, but differentiate in the levels of education and each of them is given a different focus in historical periods of history, Greek, European and global. The main aim of teaching history lessons in primary and secondary education is to provide basic and concise knowledge to students and students so that the curriculum can be easily integrated into and developed. In particular, in primary and high schools, the layout of the material follows the established shape of "Archaeological - Byzantium - Middle Ages, Modern and Modern Times" per educational level, but with a different approach. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Students and students, that is, in elementary school, will be taught mainly in Greek History, while in high school, emphasis will be placed on European and world history. In high school classes, the approach of history is theme, i.e. students and students will know in detail and in depth specific historical issues of Greek, European and global history. In the new books of History, the Halkidiki Revolution refers to the section "The Revolution in Macedonia" of the 4th grade and, as I said before, the instruction of the new books of history will be started for the year 2023-2024. Therefore, the teaching of the Halkidiki Revolution in the F' class of primary school will also be done. I'll tell you more in my denture. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u220	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I very clearly acknowledge that there is a procedural framework which must be followed through such interventions, as I clearly acknowledge that the scientific committees must present their views on such matters, which are very serious and delicate and also about the educational work that the teachers will have, but if anything else, it will also be what our children, students, will learn. Nevertheless, I think there should also be the political will for some things in terms of and philosophy from the Ministry of Education, and I think that there should be more identification with the request that we have as Halkidikiots with the opportunity of both the two hundred years since the Revolution and Halkidiki, as well as our country. This whole situation must be an opportunity to add - and I also insist on this - to our school books the total revolt of the Halkidikiers to the outcome of the national cause and the liberation of Hellenism. I think that historical memory will make a significant contribution and strengthen the visibility and transmission of the real messages of our history. That is why it must not be neglected. On the contrary - and I insist on my initial position - I think you too can from the position you are - understand the point of order - act in order to make the necessary efforts to highlight this struggle. The size of the efforts of the Halkidiki fighters must therefore be reflected in the school books and should not be left alone in reports that exist in total in the struggle that has taken place. With this action you will fill a great historical gap that we believe is inappropriate to Halkidiki and thus to northern Greece. At the same time, there will also be an end to a series of efforts that have been made by institutions, clubs, local authorities, but also by all the citizens of Halkidiki, for whom this is a constant request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u223	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr President, I would like to assure you that, beyond the procedural procedure - which I imagine you are aware of, as well as for scientific and pedagogical reasons - the fact that it will be included in the section that I mentioned before it is not on the occasion of the very important anniversary of the two hundred years, but on essential and historical grounds, as you have asked for. I would like to tell you that the flame of freedom and national independence moved the revolutionary mind of the entire Greeks. The particular circumstances of each place certainly identified the form of the struggle, but also the means taken by the inhabitants according to the nature of each region. We all have stories that have been taught to us, but have also been transferred to us on how our ancestors fought according to their place of origin and how they contributed to the decisive struggle for the independence of our country. As you quite rightly said, this year, two hundred years were completed by the Greek Revolution of 1821 and after great struggles our independent organized Greek state was created. In fact, this was an opportunity to be held in Halkidiki, as you said, such school events to remember details that some of us had forgotten, but certainly the children had to be taught. As I told you in my prototype, it is clear that all the regions have contributed to the decisive struggle for the independence of our country, but the Halkidiki Revolution, for which you are asking us, has been a catalyst for the Greek Struggle. Thus, the new curriculum, which provides the opportunity to address historical issues in detail, is additionally enriched and with digitalised educational material which will be exploited at the discretion of the teacher as well as the content of the school manual. In this way, Mr Colleague, the curriculum is streamlining the curriculum and is effectively formulated and understood in the teaching act as a whole of school history books. At the same time, teachers are given the opportunity to make use of the digital material that surrounds each section, to analyse it further in their judgement and to raise a matter of local interest as appropriate. The process of drawing up these curricula, as I mentioned in the protagonists, but also the writing of the history teaching books will be completed and taught in the school year 2023-2024. Drawing up the course's curriculum is an important work carried out by experts and supervised by the Institute for Educational Policy, which gives importance to the parameter of the Halkidiki Revolution. As I told you, this is where the Halkidiki Revolution refers to the "Revolution in Macedonia" section of the "F" class of municipality and the events will be developed in detail by the authors of the respective school manual, of course, in the context of a balanced approach to the issue of the Greek Revolution by geographical region and by scientific criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, too, Minister. And now we move on to the fourteenth, with number 776-17-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Xanthi of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Zabek Hussein to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Conversion of the 17th Municipal School of Xanthi to the Experimental School (PI.S.)". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as part of the implementation of Law 4692, the Ministry proceeded with the adoption of Ministerial Decision 22631. There it is stated that primary school units are required to apply for qualification as experimental schools. However, the designation may be made at the request of the primary school director to whom the school unit is subject. With this provision, the Director of Primary Education of Xanthi was given the opportunity to propose the conversion of the 17th Primary School and the 13th Preschool of Xanthi into experimental studies. This option is a unilateral act for the enforcement of the administration, which was taken without any consultation of the parent and guardian association and the teachers' association. Then came the decision 01614, which actually transforms the 17th Municipality into experimental, which has raised the intense reactions of parents and guardians, but also of the entire local society. The opinion of the educational community and the citizens of your neoliberal concept of imposing experimental schools in all regions of the country is well known. SYRIZA is not against experimental schools. After all, the legislative work of the SYRIZA government has proved it. We in our policy have respected the educational needs they serve, namely the implementation of innovative educational methods and their close links with the universities. You, with your law and your decisions, go ahead with an unprecedented establishment of experimental schools across the country, which eventually leads to the loss of their meaning, but mainly in this way you create two-speed schools, thus being classified as "elite schools". The point of experimentation is not to deprive the neighbourhood schools, which are the pillar of each local community. In this sense, you are also unfair to the institution of experimental schools. And in any case, it is not possible for such decisions to be taken by authoritarian unilateral acts of the administration, without the consent of local society, parents and guardians. In the case of Xanthi, however, there are questions even about the process of converting the 17th Municipality into experimental ones. In a first ministerial decision, you set out a number of criteria on the basis of which the Management Committee of Experimental School Standards would assess the proposals and propose the school units to the Minister. We consider that both in terms of the location of the school, which is located in the suburb of Kallithea, Xanthi, and not centrally, as well as in terms of infrastructure, since the school is sevenfold and has no laboratory rooms, are not meeting the criteria set by the law. That is why I would first like you to convey the views of the Management Committee on Standards and Experimental Schools, both for the conversion of the 17th Municipal School of Xanthi and the 13th Preschool of Xanthi to associated experimentally. How many and what criteria do these schools meet, and why have they finally been selected? Do you intend to withdraw this decision and discuss with parents and teaching associations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Madam President, and I will ask beforehand for your tolerance if I break a little bit of a three-minute time. Today, more than any other time, Mr Colleague, the public school must offer indiscriminately all the means to develop a way of thinking that together with skills, skills and knowledge will enable future citizens to judge and discern the value and gravity of science and scientific knowledge. And it is the expansion of the institution of the pilot and experimental schools that will set an example for the restoration and development of public education, in line with the requirements of our time. The main aim is to develop pilot and experimental schools as far as possible at all levels as related schools, as well as in cities, where there are portions of science and education, so that they can be interconnected and closely monitored, in accordance with our election programme and our respective commitment. In the light of the above and in application of Law 4692/20, the Standards and Experimental Schools Act was adopted, following a recommendation from the Directory of Standards and Experimental Schools - ICI - I will mention it codified from now on - and with the agreement of the Institute of Education Policy, the Ministerial Decision on the qualification of public schools as model or experimental schools, in which the decision defines the procedure for the submission of applications by the school units or heads of primary and secondary education, as well as the criteria and the evaluation procedure for the qualification of school as a standard or experimental one. In the case of the 13th Experimental Primary School and the 17th Municipal School of Xanthi, the procedure referred to in this Ministerial Decision and the relevant invitation issued was followed. For these schools, the application was submitted by the head of the Xanthi Prefecture of Primary Education. That is the possibility of the law. On the basis of the main criterion of ensuring the symmetrical distribution of standards and experimental schools, as well as the interconnection of the operation of schools with university departments and schools of education sciences, and taking into account the suggestion made by the Director of the Primary Education of Xanthi for the possibility of absorption of unpaid pupils from neighbouring schools, as well as the dynamics of upgrading the school concerned, the PPC considered that the school unit could join the network of pilot and experimental schools. It should be understood that experimental schools are of an over-local nature, that is to say they accept students from the wider geographical area, which is intended, because this will create a random sample as representative as possible of the pupils of the region and will help to draw safer conclusions from the teaching methods used and the educational material used. In the transitional period, students of all classes will, if they so wish, continue their course in this school unit. There is therefore no inconvenience for students already in school. In addition, the taking up of the school's pedagogical responsibility by the Scientific Supervisory Board will enable it to function as a reference point for the whole of the local society through actions and programmes that can be implemented in cooperation with the university to link this school unit. The association process, as well as the content, will be defined in the next period in cooperation with the CETA and the universities. Through the network of models and experiments, it is not intended, Mr Colleague, that good school should become better, but these schools should set an example for all the public schools in the country on an upward path for a higher quality public education, which we all want and vision. Thus, it is not a negative factor in characterising a school as experimental for its operation in a degraded area. I shall continue in my dentistry and thank you for the tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u229	Madam Minister, I do not think you have convinced me or the parents with this answer. I hope your dentistry is more convincing. As I said before, the decision to convert the 17th Municipality into experimental has caused the strong reaction of the parents of the school and the Master Association of Xanthi. In particular, I inform you that the parents made at least four representations of protest, supported by the Teaching Association of Xanthi and the local society. Also, the students before Easter abstained from courses via Webex in evidence of protest. I don't know if you've been informed. Meanwhile, all the parents' efforts to talk to the principal of primary school were fruitless, as he did not even agree to chat with you. No consultation, Minister. Here it is worth noting that there was another proposal from a municipal school in Stavroupolis to turn it into an experimental one. However, this proposal was not even assessed by the primary address. I don't know if he got to the ministry that proposal. How is it possible, despite the strong reactions of local society, teachers, school and the entire Teaching Association of Xanthi, to proceed to this project? You also argue that setting up experimental schools is progress for each region. But, on the other hand, the abolition of the neighborhood school is a blow to each community. In particular for Xanthi, this option leads to the deregulation of this particular area. Have you considered the impact it will have on the children of the region, who cannot continue their studies in their natural environment? If your intention is not to set up elite schools, which create divisions, why do you not promote these actions and innovative methods in all schools, through the proper training of teachers, since your aim is to upgrade public school? Let us not fool ourselves, your aim is to separate pupils, to alienate the local community from the neighborhood school and, of course, to impose your decisions on citizens, without any dialogue, authoritatively. Finally, Minister, we do not invite you to reply to us. Answer the parents in the area who have been fighting for a long time to keep their school alive. Why do you not take into account the views of the local people, parents and teachers? How do you plan to convince them that the setting up of the experimental won't alienate the community from the neighborhood school? What, after all, will be the students of Kallithea Xanthi? How will you compensate for the loss of their school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you have confused me a little, because as far as I know - and I know this very seriously and correctly - SYRIZA is not against experimental schools. I understand that you are against it, and you think they should be abolished, because the neighborhood schools are being abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u232	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u233	You said before that we are abolishing neighborhood schools. In order not to get tired of this House and not to cause the President's justified reaction with lightning, I shall continue. As I told you, the Management Committee of the Models and Experimental Schools has examined the proposals submitted by the Director of Xanthi Primary Education. The Committee examines the proposals submitted and found that the criteria were sufficient to identify these schools as experimental. In particular, for the 17th Municipal School of Xanthi the actions that preceded the submission of the proposal to be designated as an experimental school by the Director of Primary Education Xanthi were as follows: A meeting was held - teleconferencing with the teachers' association. I would like to point out again - and I said it in my prototype - that his assent is not legally necessary. A request from the Parents Committee for the non-submission of the proposal with residents' signatures in the school area has been taken into account. It is also noted that 40% of the people they signed were not parents. A meeting was held with a committee composed of five parents, as there was no association of parents and guardians in that school unit. Written questions were put to the meeting, written answers were asked and written, personally sent to the parents’ e-mails. A meeting was held with two members of the Association of Parents and Princess of Xanthi. Many interviews were given to the local media and it was clarified what the parents employed in the school unit area, as well as all the parents of the Regional Unit Xanthi for the criteria taken into account for their qualification, as submitted in the application - a proposal to the Management Committee of the Standards and Experimental Schools. The following apply: This is a sixth school outside the center of Xanthi. Compliance with the building specifications due to capacity. Students and students who will not be paid will be able to attend adjacent schools in which there is availability, such as the 11th Primary School and the 8th Primary School of Efmiro. Of the seventeen students and students enrolled in the first grade, the five have brothers and sisters in larger classes and will continue, as the law defines, their student in it. The school unit serves with organic status a small number of teachers, nine teachers, a English teacher and a Physical Education teacher. The school unit has a relatively new building and has in the past implemented pilot projects from the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. There is a connection through the digital platform with the Pedagogical Department of Alexandroupolis and the other departments of the Democritus University. In addition, an overall assessment of the school units of Xanthi was made and selected as the most suitable one to submit a proposal for qualification as an experimental school. Also, no other school in the city of Xanthi was proposed, because there are not enough available places for students to study in neighbouring schools. We also receive care for those who will not be paid. From the above, it appears that students and students in this region will benefit more from this because they will have the opportunity to study in upgraded schools. There will be no danger of a reduction in the school's organicity in the coming years and its function as a five-seat or four-seater with a classes-teaching, no risk of unpaid pupils and pupils moving, because they will be transferred to neighbouring schools. In relation to the application submitted - a proposal for the designation of the 13th Preschool of Xanthi as experimental, the Director of Primary Education took into account the following: There is an educational staff and there is no problem moving organic positions from the 13th Preschool to others. It has building infrastructure with room for twenty-five students, adequate space and parking for parents transported. Today there are seventy students and there is availability for a total of one hundred nineteen. It is located west of the center of Xanthi and is not selected by the parents who prefer to attend their children at a multitude of city kindergartens. Also, no other school in the city of Xanthi was proposed, because there are not enough available places for students to study in neighbouring schools. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u234	Me too, Minister. We continue with the fourth, with the number 755/11-5-2021 top-level question by the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliou Viliardou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Availability to deal with deferred tax due to the Hive Down (Hive Down) of Piraeus Bank and the need to investigate possible damage to the public. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, Minister. Thank you very much for your presence. In my prototype, I will refer to the corporate transformation of Hive Down from a procedural point of view, while the secondaryity of the deferred tax and the possible damage to the public. I'll start with the definition of Hive Down. It is a company transformation that simply allows the transfer of the most valuable and important part of a company to a subsidiary, which can then be sold. I stress: Then it can be sold. In the case of Piraeus Bank, the banking operations were transferred to a new subsidiary which is a credit institution, as before, at Piraeus Bank SA. The old Piraeus Bank has ceased to be a bank and is now operating as a holding company called “Piraeus Financial Holdings S.A.”, the parent company of the bank. What we are concerned with is that this transformation no longer includes a separate balance sheet and results for Piraeus Bank in the financial statements of the new entity, except for the parent shares and the group. At least we've searched, and we haven't found it in the account or somewhere else. We will testify in the Minutes the shape with the Hive Down of Piraeus, the table with its main financial data with a small report of our own, the balance sheet, the status of results and its subsidiaries. If he does not publish it separately or then publish it at GEMH, it is difficult to assess the results of the most important element of the Piraeus Group, so there is a opacity. Obviously it is important for investors to be able to assess the performance of the most important element of the Piraeus Group, namely the bank, especially when we have recently lost EUR 2.6 billion from its recapitalisation, which will, of course, be added to our public debt. Furthermore, it is not evident to which company the participations of the former Piraeus Bank are, as is the deferred tax. They may have remained in the new bank, but maybe not. Even if they have remained in the bank, they may be transferred later with an intragroup transaction. Worse, this transaction may result in a subsidiary in a third country outside the jurisdiction of the Bank of Greece or the European Central Bank. Our questions here are as follows: First, where are the deferred tax and the Piraeus Red loans, either directly or through the special vehicles of the securitisation? Secondly, how does the bank ensure transparency when its financial statements are not included in the group's balance sheet? However, if you want, on the occasion of your presence here, tell us further about the sudden increase in Alpha Bank's capital that reasonably caused the collapse of the stock and stock exchange price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear honourable Member, Mr Villardos, as you rightly said the Piraeus Bank on 20 December 2000 made the company transformation of the so-called 'Hive Down', that is, two different forms of company, the so-called 'HOLDING COMPANY' - the holding company - and the new Piraeus Bank. As we know, the so-called secession, the Hive Down, that is, the corporate transformation, has already happened to three Greek systemic banks. It is fully legal, as all necessary legal procedures have been followed. Moreover, it has already been approved by the European Supervisor, the so-called SSM. As we know, this corporate transformation, this secession, especially in the case of Greece, has one specific feature: deferred tax is considered as supervisory capital. Interestingly, if a bank wanted to present a loss that it cannot cover by recourse to private capital, then the Hive Down mechanism is activated, it interferes with the State, which takes part in the relevant shares. In the case of this method, we have a sufficient separation procedure to avoid possible losses, which could result from the activation of the deferred tax, as I said at the outset, that ‘HOLDING COMPANY’ is a number of participations plus non-performing loans, while the new bank, which operates on a new licence, finds the so-called ‘different tax’. Why are all three Greek system banks doing this? Firstly, because they can speed up the reduction of non-performing loans through the ‘ERAKLE’. In other words, this transformation is taking place to optimise their organisational and capital structure. In the case at Piraeus Bank, it did so in order to be able to obtain the so-called recognition, i.e. to complete the securitisation of a significant amount of service loans, total mixed book value of approximately 7.5 billion. Secondly, because this transformation allows for a significant reduction in the amount of forecasts of credit losses - as we have said - and the release of funds which will enter the real economy. Thirdly, because this improves the quality of the assets and, as we have said, our banks are becoming much more investable, such as at this time as we know that private and international investors are running to the point of investing in Greek banks. I would like to say about your question about the various elements, that there is a full presence and appearance of the financial assets and as the bank has informed us, the assets under discussion, i.e. deferred tax claims of EUR 6.3 billion and the loans and claims of customers of EUR 38,2 million on 31 December 2020, are included in those funds of the individual and consolidated financial position of the Bank of Piraeus financial position adopted by its Governing Council on 9 April 2021, but also in its consolidated financial position of ‘Piracy Financial Holdings S.A.’ on 24 March 2021. Dear Mr. MEP, the financial statements of Piraeus Financial Holdings and Piraeus subsidiary, that is, for the year 2020, are both posted on the Group's online page. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll go through them - I haven't found them, but I've looked right at the financial statements - and I'll answer you. As far as legality is concerned, it means nothing but the adoption of a law that makes it legal. Nothing more and nothing more. As far as the improvements to the banks are concerned, they risk losing the EUR 24 billion of the two "HRAKLIS" programmes, so we must be more careful here. This is, at least, written in the media. In my dentext I shall refer to the issue of deferred tax, which in essence increases the funds of the zombie banks that have arisen from the PSI, but not the possibility of lending them, and also how the Hive Down is involved here. In this respect, if the deferral tax is cut off, its value is lost in so far as any public hope of recovering part of its investment is lost in the event that banks have losses and capital increase is made with the issuance of shares. It is simply by tabling it in the Minutes - we will submit it later - that the deferred tax is for the Piraeus Group of 6,33 billion on 31 December 2020 from 6,47 billion in 2019, when Piraeus Bank had 6,43 billion on 31 December 2019, that is, most of them. In the debate on the prospects for the credit system in the House, in the Commission on 1 April 2021 - you were present - Mr Hadinikolaou said that the transformation is mainly done in order to prevent deferral of the tax and to issue shares for no reason - I repeat -, as we will testify for the Minutes from the Minutes of the sitting. In our view, however, it is necessary to investigate whether public rights have been damaged and whether the Hardoublis Act provisions have been violated. However, how can an investigation be carried out, given that the own-initiative intervention of the prosecutor under Article 5.2 of Law No.4637/2019, which amended Article 390 of the previous Criminal Code, be ruled out? It is noted that possible capital increases are possible due to losses on the sales of the red loans or new ones to be formed in the pandemic or on the possible deletion of the deferred tax. In particular, the following shall be added: Firstly, it is stated that the losses to be entered by systemic banks from the sales of red loans, with or without the ‘HRAKLIS’ plan, will be around EUR 3 to 4 billion. Secondly, with regard to the deletion of the deferred tax, according to Mr Hadjiemmanuel, a representative of the Bank of Greece, in a debate in another committee on the Financial Stability Fund bill, on 9 March 2021, the deferred party should not be supposed to be maintained for the twenty years of the Hardouvelli Act. He also said that 2022 will increase capital requirements at European level - you remember it - so the public will continue to place capital if the shareholders do not do so without control. It is noted here that the money of the CFSF - which comes from foreigners, not from us - is added to public debt, which the PSI had effectively eliminated from the first moment. Our questions here are: First, is this a legal and moral transformation? How do public rights, given the statement by the President of Piraeus, be guaranteed for no reason to issue shares? Will a prosecutor's office be ordered to investigate, since the law is not self-determination? Secondly, will there be damage to the State because of the transformation due to the loss of value of the deferred tax? If damage occurs, shares will be issued, as provided for in the Hardouvel amendment with L.4302/2014 and Article 23. Finally, I would remind you of something about Alpha Bank, which you did not say in your prototype. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u240	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. In the time available, I would like to say that the company transformation is fully legitimate, obviously and moral. It is based on the legislation in question and, as I said, with the approval of the European supervisor of banks, in cooperation with the Bank of Greece. The relevant legal regime, as we know, to which the deferred tax and the new transformation of Piraeus Bank is subject, is the provisions of Article 27A of Law 4172/2013. As we know, under this law, if the tax in question, in which the accounting loss has been incurred, is not sufficient to fully offset the above definitive claim against the State, then the legal person directly has a claim against the Greek State for the remaining amount that is not netted. Therefore, in this case, when the deferred tax requirement was converted into a definitive and liquidated claim vis-à-vis the Greek State, the State makes payment of a corresponding amount. In return for such payment, the State receives rights from new shares of the legal person, according to the definitions of the law. In other words, the public interest is not affected either if the public's obligation to pay a cleared claim is activated, since, as we have said, it receives both rights to new shares and, of course, if the legal person is not damaged, the said payment mechanism is not activated by the public and new shares are issued. In general, with your remarks, Mr Villarde, on the issues of HERAKLE and the guarantees, I would like to say something that we have discussed many times. The Greek State's guarantee, and HARAKEL 1, 12 billion, and HARAKEL 2, another 12 billion, is one of the safest guarantees the Greek State has ever given to this day. This is due to a number of reasons that we have set out: Firstly, because it guarantees the best rated share, as you know, of implementation, the so-called senior trache, secondly, because the transaction of 50% plus 1% of the entire portfolio, thirdly, is already carried out, even if there is ever a decline in an extreme case, then this discount is fully costly within the fee they pay to the Greek State. I would like to say here, in response not only to the Piraeus issues but also to the increases that the Alpha Bank has made, as you said, that we are at an extremely important and interesting time of exit from crisis, recovery and development. Three things I would like you to restrain, which really makes the Greek banks feel very confident about the future and especially to resort to the international capital markets: firstly, the huge progress made with the issues of HARAKLI to reduce non-performing loans; secondly, the very important credit situation of the country, which has improved so that it can resort to the lowest interest rate ever borrowed by Greek democracy; and thirdly, because, Mr Villardes, everyone is aware, not only of the Greeks, but especially the international investors - the resources of the huge package from the Recovery Fund, which has very great and significant improvements for the Greek economy. These are precisely the conditions and parameters that create this uniquely favourable situation, which allows both the Greek economy and the Greek banks to look at the future with confidence and to be immediately activated for the implementation of their business plans. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of the following sittings, Thursday 28 January 2021, Friday 29 January 2021 and Monday 1 February 2021 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u243	The House has therefore ratified them. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-24-S1-commons.u244	With the consent of the House at 18.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 25 May 2021 and 10.00 p.m. on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
