ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 20-12-2021 authorisation, the Minutes of the First Meeting of 20-12-2021 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Modern Tourism Destinations of Integrated Management, Management and Promotional Organisations, Viral Sources of Greece and other arrangements for strengthening tourist development".]] Before entering the agenda, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Agreements to deal with the CIVID-19 pandemic and the protection of public health and other urgent provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Agreements to deal with the CIVID-19 pandemic and the protection of public health and other urgent provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 December of this year to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. The speakers will be registered electronically until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Friday Brysidou, I will give the floor to the Minister who wants to inform the House of an amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I wanted to speak at first for just a minute because of the fact that the amendment has been tabled, but perhaps it has not yet been known to the Members who will be present. The amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health has an important regulation that we were committed to and is the part of the responsibility of doctors during COVID-19 incident management. Because it has been observed that doctors and nurses have been targeted with manifestly unfounded treatments and suctions and because these people on the front of the battle line, and many times we have all said here that they are vulnerable to these suctions, we have now decided - without any unreasonable reason, the responsibility remains if there has been any medical error - with Article 3 of the amendment that the negligence of medical and nursing personnel has been established in the treatment of patients with CIVID-19 only in acts and omissions that manifestly conflict with the general rules of medical science or with the medical protocol on the management of cases of COVID or with the health measures applied on the Greek territory to deal with COVID-19. So, if and since incident management errors have been made, responsibility remains intact, but it is a wording that protects doctors and nurses from prosecutions and treatments, blatant and manifestly contrary to the legal framework. In fact, the established case law that exists for medical responsibility is reflected in the law in order to protect doctors and nurses from unfounded suicidal charges, if they can incorporate individuals and when they can incorporate them, if and if there are negatives from the outside and threaten them. It is a provision, therefore, which will prove within the National Representation, depending on how each of us will vote if, in fact, we respect the people who are on the frontline of the battle and want to protect them from these unfounded lawsuits and actions. It includes criminal and civil liability.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you will look at all the amendments and of course every time the Minister - the Minister will be here all the time - you will have the floor to ask for clarification. Mrs Brysidou, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, may I have the floor for a few points of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u6	Of course, Mr President. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u7	I am sorry to ask Mrs Brysidou, but I would like the floor for a few seconds. Already at dawn, we have a bar of ministerial amendments. In fact, we are talking at the moment about four ministerial amendments, a new bill. This cannot continue. Put a brake on. I do not believe - because the debate on the bill will certainly reach us by midnight - that we have another cycle of new amendments! Heavy request, then, to put in a brake! Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Vice President is right. Indeed, the Conference of Presidents raised this issue and the President of Parliament had undertaken to contact the parties in order to limit both ministerial and parliamentary amendments. So, Mr. Vice President, we'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u10	Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have said that in the last bill you will bring the provisions of the Ministry of Health and you will also put the other amendments to the other ministries. One hundred and forty - seven articles were gathered. And now, in the middle of the night, I see another fifty articles. This situation is unacceptable. It can't go on. First of all, we do not have time to see what these provisions include. You said a few things about the doctors, but we should have seen that in committee too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u12	It's a familiar matter, Mr. Poula.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u13	No, Mr President, this cannot continue. For us it's unacceptable. Every year we have the same issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u14	We shall return this to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u16	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, I agree with my fellow Members on the last-minute amendments following a huge bill, which is of course discussed in the urgency procedure. In what the Minister said earlier, I wanted to say that all these things are unacceptable. Instead of educating doctors, they're expanding the impunity at all levels now. It seems that the system is inadequate, it creates great problems and it makes it even worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u18	We'll bring it back. There are some amendments, for example the one I have studied by the Ministry of Interior, which have extensions of fixed-term contracts which must be extended because they expire on 31 December. This is an urgent amendment. I understand that, too. As for the others, as the Vice-President, Mr Lambroulis, has said, we will put this back to the Conference of Presidents. I would ask that the electronic system for listing the speakers, which can be registered by the end of the speech by the second rapporteur, should be opened. Here, Mrs. Brysidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today a bill from the Ministry of Health is being discussed, and the first forty-four are being referred to the Ministry of Health and a number of laws to which extension is requested. They are laws on the basis of which management took place during the previous pandemic period. Here I would like to refer to the phenomenon of pandemic, a global phenomenon which has led to strong economies of other states and more organized health systems than ours. However, our country with a programme of methodicity and seriousness managed this situation, and as a result there was a positive figure. First, the IF beds were increased to a large extent, almost tripled. There was a need to do this, but there was also a need in previous years and in the previous government, where we have a record of incidents that could not be hospitalized in the absence of beds. So this difficult project was organised in a fast time, so that we could deal with the patients who needed it because of COVID-19 to find themselves in these beds, as well as all the patients who were in this situation. At the same time, there was the provision and recruitment of such personnel to organise and manage the ICMs, as well as all health units. So we had the recruitment of a total of sixteen thousand people during this previous period, of whom 12 thousand were nursing staff and subsidiary staff and of the other four thousand, the two thousand were permanent doctors and the other two thousand advisors. This number is an important number so that we can work and work. Surely, the situation is much more difficult than it was in the past. However, the results were favourable, they were positive. At the same time, there was information about vaccination and an organisation through an electronic platform, so that by methodicity and without creating difficulty, confusion or panic, all citizens can be able to register on the day they wish to be vaccinated and even to inform them electronically through their mobile for what day and time. These steps are very important for our country, and we must be proud of them, because in this area we have been able to compete and compete with many organised countries, and some of them we have overcome, and this whole situation has led to a positive result. So these favourable and organised arrangements did not only stop at what I mentioned, but there was provision for a network of nurses who at home could take samples of coronary tests from people who could not visit diagnostic centres. There was a network of doctors who supported the patients who were in their homes. There was provision for home vaccination for people who are inhabited or ill and cannot go to vaccinated centres and there was also a series of recruitments of nurses and doctors. These arrangements are therefore an extension. There is an extension of the contracts for doctors who work under a fixed-term contract and the procedures are quick, so that those who are in a competitive process can be recruited directly. The possibility of hiring ancillary staff, nurses, administrative and in general all health support specialties in order to carry on with this function and work is also provided. Also, the network of nurses is being extended, the limit is set for what everyone will have to pay for and chooses to be vaccinated on it, which is for each 10 euro vaccine, and if the doctor is invited home is 50 euros on the single vaccine and 30 euros on most doses, and these are covered by the Ministry of Health. All these arrangements need to be made. Colleagues of the Opposition have wondered why these extensions should be given and that permanent staff should not be recruited as a whole. The answer is for the same reasons that were not done in the previous period, when there were government, because although the Memorandum of Understanding was in place and the financial statements were unscathed and, more generally, there were staff shortages mainly in the region. To why they are given three months and not more and not more, the answer is that in every extension number one can compare another number and say six months or eight months. This organized project, which has so far operated accurately and has been guaranteed not only by doctors and nurses and managers, but also by guarding and cleaning and feeding and controlling and monitoring patients in homes and vaccination at homes, is of the opinion that at this time three months are needed, because the situation is dynamic, it is reassessed and, of course, it is only partially or totally possible to extend. At the same time, an extension of the obligation to show the certificate of vaccine or illness for private and public officials is granted. At the same time, we also have a number of other regulations which are crucial to alleviating citizens and businesses. I am going to refer to tax concessions for citizens in Crete affected by the earthquake, their real estate has been in a state of collapse or some damage. They are exempted from the ETUC for the next three years. It's a very favourable arrangement. It has of course been heard by colleagues that there should be other arrangements. I think that we should touch on the people who need it, such as earthquakes, but that does not mean that this first and most importantly favourable regulation should not be voted on in order to benefit from this project. The possibility of reduced rates for tourist buses currently affected is also provided. It is also a favourable regulation for them. The proportion of overestimated VAT by summer is still maintained in order to reconstitute financially specific shares of citizens and specific professions. We also have arrangements for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development. Here I would like to refer to the extension given to workers in cleanliness and safekeeping. We believe that this is an important intervention, because there are workers waiting the next day for us to see that they will continue to work and that the ministries will also be served. Here, of course, I would like to point out the fact that there was a party representative who did not support the bill in principle and on the articles, but it is proposed with amendment that contractors should continue to work. We are clearly in favour of safeguarding work and already with the laws that we are bringing, of course we are dealing with every other case, because you know that this is not only a matter of will but also a matter of general organisation and cooperation between the relevant ministries, so that the encouraging step can come about so that we can move forward in the next step. In addition, I would like to refer to the very important articles of the Ministry of the Environment, first of all, concerning the forests and the management studies that are required, so that they are organised in order to protect, clean and not jeopardise the fires and all other negative procedures, which have emerged from time to time. Our area and our place, in the context of tourism, development and environmental protection, invests in our forests. We have suffered enormous damage during the fire season. But it is not enough for an organized plan when the fires come out. We need provision so that we are ready and not in such difficult situations. Also important are the regulations on PPC which allow for an extension of the service of stations which have a temporary licence by the end of 2023. PPC is given the opportunity for another year to cooperate with DEDDI on a fee, in order to provide services that it is not at present possible to have in another way by qualified and experienced staff, so that it will not be possible to proceed with its operation. We also need to refer to energy communities that are being extended by the end of June for competitive procedures. I should like to point out for the area of Kozani and Western Macedonia the favourable regulation granting an extension for the payment of proposals to the DEDDIE and IPTO by the end of June, for the energy communities and, more generally, for those who wish to enter this process and who receive an extension until the end of the time of the exemption from the competitive 18 MW process, which, of course, does not apply to the other cases where the end date is the end of June. We also have very important arrangements on the subject of the Ministry of Education. For the first time, teachers are given the opportunity to choose from a digital bank books which will be pre-selected after examination by a special committee. This allows the teacher to choose the book that will teach and at the same time choose sections that will be needed from the other books of that bank. For us, the big investment is education. We have too many possibilities and we must release the watertights and enable our children to have comprehensive information, to give initiative to those teachers who know what they want and what they want, to be able to offer them because the upgraded education is the guarantee for the present and future of our region. We also have important arrangements for the issues of the Ministry of Culture. Recall shall be taken for the concerts that have been cancelled during the krone season. You understand that this is an issue that has arisen and is given the possibility under the law to provide credit tickets for a later period, so that they too can function, but there is no harm for people because of the cancellation of the show that they have decided to attend. At the same time, rental contracts are transferred until the end of 2023, so that they can balance out in the new environment and the new possibilities given in this space. It is also possible for products that have been seized to be offered to the Ministry of Civil Protection and to be exploited, because some of them really need them and it is important to use them and not to deprive them. Ladies and gentlemen, the health ministry's bill, together with all the laws it brings to the vote, is a very organised bill, it has nothing to do with curiosity or with anything else that has been heard, because they are extensions of laws which have worked with great care, and each side contributed to a comprehensive and organised plan to tackle pandemic, to deal with unfavourable conditions, to help in the field of the economy and so that we can take steps forward. All that has so far been organised and the care taken to alleviate citizens, continue workers and better organisation of health structures is evidence that we must all be assembled in this effort. In difficult situations and difficult conditions, the symposium plays multiple roles. First of all, it inspires citizens and since we care for them and want to protect their health and life in this difficult period, there must be confidence in common decisions in some areas, so that they too can follow them to have the best possible effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. The rapporteur of SYRIZA, Nikos Igoumenides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing arrangements for dealing with the coronary pandemic, for the protection of public health and other urgent provisions. In our view, the government is once again working on pandemic to hide under the carpet of the necessary extensions its misconduct with many years and long-term problems, which it should have already encountered. It uses pandemic to promote hidden behind the urgent curtains, facing as a necessary evil the lack of extensive consultation to promote photographic provisions for its own children to serve certain purposes. As far as 15 ministries are concerned, we have come to this result of a piece of legislation which we are voting against. A few remarks. In the complaints and in the debate prior to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Minister for Health said that the government brought this multi-legislative bill to avoid the rain of the amendments that usually come in the last draft year's bill. Minister, you can see my notes. I note this here and read it as I have said it: positive if this position reflects the view that the amendments are a sign of good legislation. We agree. And if we want to say a good word, you won't let us. You yourself asked for the floor at the beginning of the procedure, because this House may not have been informed, to explain and to announce the amendment. And four amendments came. You see the amount of amendments, ladies and gentlemen. They're at everyone's disposal anyway. You spoke a minute about the legal protection of doctors from dark practices, which doctors might accept. Forty-three pages do you need that for? Amendment by the Ministry of Finance thirty-six pages, the purchase of seven ambulances and various, amendments by the Ministry of Energy fifty-two pages, by the Ministry of Interior sixty-seven pages, for which, as the Minister himself admitted, the delegation has not been informed. I would like to know how many of the New Democracy Members are familiar with all these texts. "Look, but that's usually the way it happens, or a multi-project at the end of the year or amendments." Half the ministries are involved, there is a poor consultation and incomplete participation of society, there is an inadequate participation of Members. It does not deal with the rain of the'rain' of articles and the rain of ministries or much more, with what is now happening and the rain of ministries and the rain of amendments. We've got to get this over with at last. We need to get this over with and get it over with with bad legislation. One point which has been raised to us, ladies and gentlemen, was the matter of the extensions that come from many roads today. Whether it is new extensions or extensions to extensions is essentially the easy way and how to avoid problems being solved. However, the problems exist and their solution requires responsible treatment, long-term planning and political will. It appears that the Government of New Democracy has no such evidence. That is why he also finds a way out of the extensions. They have discussed social welfare issues in the committees quite a few times. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis, with last - and I will be standing in - the budget debate last week, claimed that the New Democracy has a surplus of social sensitivity and we cannot call it on social welfare issues. Look, gentlemen, social solidarity is not charity. Regardless of words and declarations, you cannot implement a social cohesion policy, a policy to alleviate inequalities, if you do not have the principles of equality, the principles of human exploitation. That explains, if you want, why in recent - not take the whole story - it was the Samara - Venizelos government that created an army of one and a half million fellow citizens excluded from access to the public health system. That's why the left government first solved this problem. And that is why today Mr.Mitsotakis' Right Mitsotakis' right blocks uninsured access to ECYYY doctors, and not only that, but this article in this bill allows the Minister only to decide on exclusion from examinations, medications and treatments. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been several topics, articles in this draft law on matters of self-government. In our opinion, behind the extensions proposed to some of them by the government - and we said before our conception of extensions - not only does it not solve the problems but it does not even start up the procedures for resolving the problems faced by local government agencies, which are in a vicious cycle of constant deterioration of their problems, the problems that are being asked to solve, first and foremost, because of subsidization. There was also a question of funding, which was solved, as the representatives of the OTAs, the mayors and all the representatives themselves, with "PHILIDIMOS" in which you simply changed your name and checked the course of his funding. So it's a problem of subscribing. The government is ignoring, I would say, this situation, and so the TAs are even more burdened and are transformed into a vehicle of acceleration of privatization and the delegation of powers of a purely public nature to business groups. Another issue that dealt with the debate in the committees, and it will obviously also work today, is the question of direct awards. As our party's president, Alexis Tsipras, pointed out in the budget debate last week, the direct assignments and money paid in closed competitions are 4,9 billion, ladies and gentlemen, to friends' companies, which were made up up to three days before they took the job. This is another element, which shows that the government is working on pandemic, working on the extraordinary measures to tackle the coronary - we will also come to them a little further - and pandemic becomes the pretext for, in fact, uncontrolled corruption, with the involvement of the supreme authority itself. This whole situation with direct assignments shows from another path the democratic deficit that exists today. In our view, it highlights the submission of the New Democracy Government to the service of the interests of the few, the ‘masters’, of its own children. It highlights the design of the Government of New Democracy for the creation of a client state and control of the joints of power, which otherwise do not know what the left-wing executives say to them. All of these elements are, in our opinion, components, organic parts of the Right Party, the Conservative Party, and that explains, if you like, why you insist, because you come back at every opportunity along with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the world community is facing a new epidemic wave. The World Health Organisation, the European Infection Control Centre, the scientific community in our country, all express their concern that new coronary mutations will test the resilience of health systems. This has also been done by the European Commission. This concern of the global community is expressed, as we see from the news reports, daily with restrictive and horizontal measures, that or the other grade, which take a number of countries, which also have higher rates of vaccination coverage, but also stronger systems. In Greece once again, the New Democracy Government is working on pandemic. The most infamous measures announced yesterday at the Ministerial Council by Mr Mitsotakis were nothing but an attack on Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA. For all evils in managing the pandemic it is Tsipras and SYRIZA who don't put their backs on. And while we "finished with the pandemic and we are free", "we are in the last mile, we are done", "where it's only a pandemic of uninvasives", while all after the other breaks down the New Democracy narratives, unfortunately the pandemic is present, the coronary with its mutations is here, the health crisis is present and requires serious measures, serious treatment with design and perspective. With this draft law, the government sees pandemic until March 31st. Whether you think we're done with the pandemic and the tail stayed or because you think that anyway, even with the new pandemic wave, in March, we're going to have the weather, and so until then we're going to grow up, the fact is, the government with its practice does not share the concern of the world community. The treatment of pandemic, in our opinion - we have developed it quite well in the committee - requires first of all measures to strengthen the public health system, and funding, to stimulate and strengthen permanent staff, and to strengthen primary health care. This will create the best conditions for controlling the spread of the coronary, for epidemiological surveillance, to deal with the coming or any coming epidemic wave. Only two comments will I not stand or repeat issues that we have raised in the debate in committee. We believe that at the moment we do not have the luxury of having seven and a half thousand outside workers. There are strict health protocols, defined by the scientific community, for workers in the health system who have been co-infected. Let these protocols be applied or if you want stricter health protocols, but let these health professionals go back to work. When we need staff, we do not have the luxury of sending the seven thousand to their homes. And secondly, I think that apart from the benefits received by the workers of the system, these allowances should include workers, nurses and other staff of the privileged institutions who have so far been excluded. There has been a lot of discussion lately, ladies and gentlemen, on the issues of the relationship between the New Democracy and the public health system. Recently - and I am not going to repeat all the debate that we have had in recent years - Mr Mitsotakis, with his statement, has denounced the ICM and their offer to better care and treatment for patients with COVID. However, it was not only Mr Mitsotakis, the first or only member of the New Democracy who deceives the ICMs. A month ago, Mr. Scortsos - I don't know exactly the cooperation and relations of government officials, but he must be a close associate of Mr. Mitsotakis as Minister of State - he says in an interview at the radio station 'SKAI': 'The system has always been afloat. All right, guys, this year's pandemic. There is no need to create a luxurious health system." So he replied to the request to create more IF. And one year back - I will not bother you with others - when Mr Petsas was a government representative at that time, when he was impliedly sharing money with the media to promote vaccination and treatment of pandemics, he said that "We will not give money to the IITs, it is money thrown away. The pandemic ends and it's thrown money." We have also witnessed an entire effort, ladies and gentlemen. The whole system made a huge effort to get Mr. Mitsotakis out of the wreath of these responsibilities. This effort has been completed by him in the budget debate. On December 18, 2021, Mr. Mitsotakis says: "I expected no professor's study to strengthen the health system and increase the number of ICUs. Applause from the side of the New Democracy.' Please keep it for the minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let us leave words and statements and come to action. From July 2019, received by the New Democracy Government, until March 2020, when we started dealing with the pandemic, Mr. Mitsotakis and the New Democracy Government to strengthen the public health system that SYRIZA received in tragic conditions, how many PAT beds did it? It's a number that can't be forgotten, zero. In this zero we don't put our backs on! And if Mr. Mitsotakis blames us on the Ministerial Council that it is for the pandemic that it is for SYRIZA who does not put his back on it. We're not putting back on this zero! Let's continue with the deeds. The permanent staff of the ESS today, after two years of pandemic, are less than the permanent staff of the ESS, who served in July 2019, who received the "tragic situation" from SYRIZA. In this reduction in staff, in this way, depreciation of the public health system, yes, gentlemen of the New Democracy, we do not put a back on it. To come to the last question, which we repeat since the first day of the debate in committee and the Minister, reports of ideas: how many ICU beds per hospital and per State were made during the New Democracy rule? The five hundred sixty IC beds are saying there's been a thousand three hundred fifty, plus eight hundred. Give us the data per hospital, not the total number, but per hospital and how much staff you hired for these beds you made. And while you are still not announcing, I tell you with complete awareness of what I say, that you are also making fun of the Delegation and through it the Greek people. Give the real evidence! If that's what you don't have to fear, give it to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u22	Haven't we given it to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u23	You haven't given it up. You haven't given it up, bring it in! Anyway, if you have such friends, what do you want with the enemies? But it's not the mistake of some New Democracy officials, nor is it that Mr. Mitsotakis, who cheated on the ICUs, doesn't know the line. Because the New Democracy line and programme consider health trade and instead of strengthening the public health system, it wants to sell its activities, of course, to the private sector. You know, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - the whole treatment of the public health system, and in conditions of pandemic, is persuading us. We are well aware of the answer that really opposes the neoliberal political proposal of the New Democracy. It is the strengthening of the public health system within a strong social state that ensures cohesion and dignity. It is the way of restoring labour rights, which the New Democracy policy so brutally offends, in a more comprehensive policy of resurgence of labour. And of course it is the path of deepening democracy in all aspects of the life of the country. This political proposal is, and if you want it is, the basis for judging today's bill, which we are voting against, this proposal clashs with the heart of the neoliberal political proposal of the New Democracy, which also makes sense in today's draft law. The proposal gives us a solution to the problems that face wider forces in society, and so it is the basis for an even stronger attraction of them. Our proposal opens the way for Greece of the new era, free of the weights of the past. It is the Left's proposal, the proposal of the progressive party, is the proposition of victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. I would remind you, however, that you have exhausted your second language, as you requested. Is there a colleague who has not been registered as a speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u25	Good. Please close the electronic record system. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the title of the draft law you are bringing to the vote in this House, 'Consolidating the pandemic and the protection of public health', may refer to matters regulated by the Ministry of Health, but in fact it is about a multi-project, which includes forty-six articles on the responsibility of various ministries and a few on the substance of this concern the treatment of pandemic. And you bring it along with the urgency procedure, without prior consultation and without any impact, and you continue to bring amendments to the night, so that we can finally see where you will stop. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we have been in pandemic for the past two years and you have been legislating without principle, mid-term and ending and without any cohesion and continuity. The arrangements you bring are fragmentary and under no circumstances part of a comprehensive plan. You act like the pandemic is at the end of it, and in fact no one can say for sure when this health adventure will end. It is not up to you when it will end but it is about a global phenomenon whose progression depends to a great extent on the widespread spread of vaccination throughout the world, which is delaying, under the responsibility of all the powerful states in the world, and conflicts with the interests of pharmaceutical multinationals. If the vaccine does not become a global estate, the end of the pandemic will be too late to come. In this situation, however, we are discussing what the government of a country like Greece can do. First of all, the first thing you should do in this situation is build relationships of trust with the citizens, with policies that would develop security and combat uncertainty. Only in this way would you mitigate citizens' reactions to vaccination, and the country's vaccination coverage would not be delayed. Instead of using the path of persuasion and full information, you have chosen social restraint measures, which have, yes, increased the rate of vaccination but have further removed society. You have created suspicion and insecurity for the citizens and you continue to do so, in the most recent example of Monday's leaks, that you intended to impose rapid test on the vaccinated citizens, who would in fact pay out of their pockets, so that the Prime Minister could come to him next day and take it on his own initiative to finally announce the distribution of free self test. What exactly was that? A communal trick for the Prime Minister to show he's saving the situation at the last minute? This action you know has strengthened the social segregation of citizens into vaccinated and unvaccinated and even operated at the expense of the vaccination project, giving further arguments to those against vaccination. Would you decide to stop managing pandemic in secret? Could you give all the evidence to the light? Both scientific data and data from health regions and the minutes of the Committee of Experts of the EGE. While many European countries have been moving on to measures to deal with the over-transmissible ‘Omicon’ mutation, you have been stubbornly refusing to take any measure for some time now. The only measure you take is to distribute free self test to the citizens, with doubting the reliability of their results. Where are the measures for the decongestion of public transport? Should you also consider the re-expansion of teleworking, as well as the mandatory use of a mask abroad? To reduce the number of students in classes? You are constantly talking about recruitment to the ESS, with numbers that if they were to respond to reality, the National Health System would be in an ideal state and not in a disintegration situation and workers would experience more human working conditions. You are constantly talking about recruitment to the ESS, with numbers that if they were to respond to reality, the National Health System would be in an ideal state and not in a disintegration situation and workers would experience more human working conditions. You are constantly talking about increasing the IF beds, again presenting numbers that if they responded to reality, no patient would need to be intubated out of the IF. Let's not talk about the health inequality that exists on the subject of ICUs in the region in relation to the centre. The study of Chiodras and Lytras, which did not tell us anything we did not know but told us something that you have not taken into account at all: the system is able to withstand up to four hundred tubes. Over this number the mortality rises vertically. In spite of the fact that you are trying to present to the citizens a nice picture, the truth is once and there is no question: the National Health System, the public health system in which you do not believe, all of this time, lifted the burden of the management of the pandemic, while the absence of the private sector was deafening. The National Health System has made it a one-thematic one, pushing patients with other conditions in the private sector, which has greatly increased their profitability. Do you know that doctors in other specialities, not involved in the pandemic, are not being trained in hospitals at the moment? What are you going to do about it? I hear many fellow government MPs in their interviews talking about major deficiencies in the specificity of intensification. And they're right about that. But it is not just the intensifiers who are currently missing from the hospitals. This lack of intensifier has brought it to the fore the pandemic. There are many other specialities, however, which are very important for the balanced functioning of the health system. Most young doctors know very well that they choose to leave abroad, seeking better professional conditions. So, what did you do about reversing Brain Drain? How will you bring back the scientists who run hospitals throughout Europe? How will you motivate and reward these scientists to serve the new ESS? How will you strengthen the system with nurses, an area in which our country suffers tragically in relation to the OECD countries' average? With only 3,3 nurses instead of 8,8 per thousand people it is evident that the number of nurses is the achilles heel of the system. But, instead of seriously and in the long term, you are also choosing the fragmented and sloppy legislature. When will you finally incorporate the sanitary staff into the heavy and unhealthy? The conclusion of the Behraki Commission has been in your hands for a year. You are keeping it untapped, even though we have tabled an amendment on several occasions. How have the donations made to deal with the pandemic been exploited? What specific hospitals did they aid? Where did the millions of euros spent on the pandemic go? The Change Movement will submit written requests for the convening of the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss two issues: the issue of donations and the issue of the Behraki finding. And this will be done immediately, in the new year. Ladies and gentlemen, at the theatre of irrationality, of bias, of photographic arrangements and of ballasts, the provisions relating to the other ministries are also in motion. You have not found a single measure to take to deal with the energy grubbing-up of households. How will you help the citizens in the mountains of the country, the farmers who see their cost of production, their products stay indisposed or the history of low disposal, such as citrus producers in Argolida? Once again, however, you are legislating for the occupants and leaving them unfavorable, increasing social inequalities and social injustice. At a time when citizens feel the strait of accuracy and inflation tightening around them, your poorness is with the arrangements of the Ministry of Finance included in the bill, to do photographic and rhysphetological services. Legislation is only 15% on the pay of those involved in the Committee on External Tax Dispute Settlement. You are also retroactively giving the possibility of exemption from capital gains tax on company participation in related companies. We have been asking you for a long time to legislate on the tax-free status of doctors who in many cases have been taxing 40%. But you don't do anything, we don't hear anything. I will stand up to the issue of the energy crisis that triggers an outrageous wave of accuracy. At the moment, the wholesale price of kilowatts has exceeded 400 euros for our country, which in any case buys 85% more than the average of twenty-seven countries of the European Union and you are legislating for the payment of interest on past debts in the electricity market, for competitive tender procedures for power plants, for the recovery of exchanges of services of general interest, for wooding and logging work by the TEN. On the issue of the rapid award of pensions, what are you doing? No substantial action. Enter changes to the organisational structure of the NCA by transferring powers related to the award of pensions and by abolishing organic units. However, pension outstandings continue and increase with the result that we have reached fifty-two thousand outstanding basic pensions by September 2021. Finally, citizens expect to find the way in which pensions are paid quickly and without suffering. Extend until 31 March 2022 the direct assignments from the Ministry of Digital Governance and its supervised bodies, which have become normal with the justification of the pandemic. According to KIMDIS data in January 2020 to June 2021, a hundred thirty-four thousand contracts were concluded with direct awards. What was it about and what pockets did the nearly 3 million shared with them go to? For earthquakes, which are another vulnerable social group, you are just now bringing arrangements for their exemption from HNVY, with a discharge that we consider should include what buildings have been termed 'green', but which have so much damage that they cannot be inhabited. At least give them a year to get rid of HICP. And do not claim that the situation in the shocked areas is improving. You have left them at the mercy of the weather and you are delaying giving solutions to their problems. You are renewing fixed-time and project contracts to the company "Greek Festival S.A." for thirty employees, but leaving to unemployment the remaining thirteen. Prolong the mandate of the Immigration Ministry retired, for whom strong reactions were provoked and for which you were committed to ending their term of office at the end of 2021. Instead of dealing with the flows and the orderly functioning of structures, you are the ones who arrange for your own children. In addition, Article 140 will create many problems which cannot be retrospectively cured. The development model proposed for aquaculture is problematic, because there is no rational development in combination with other development actions, such as tourism and open sea policies, from which local communities could benefit more widely. The provisions relating to the Ministry of the Interior not only relate to the pandemic but also to the urgent nature of it. I would remind you that the last bill of the Ministry of Interior was passed on 14 December. You could have included the relevant provisions there, which shows your sloppy legislation. Instead, you are choosing to introduce into this draft law provisions on the hereditary collective governance bodies of the ATTs, for the Municipal Police, for the Developmental Organisations of Local Government, for which we have had severe criticism due to the blurred operating conditions for them and the treatment as a bypass vehicle of Law 4412/2016 for public procurement and procurement. Finally, with regard to the implementation of the Patras - Tsakona road, you are coming back with two or more changes to the contract to implement the piece from Patras to the Tower, but without giving a solution to the question of the implementation of the remaining part to Tsakonna, even though the Prime Minister himself had announced the completion of the project. Minister, while the pandemic has highlighted the need to invest in public health, you are obviously avoiding it for reasons of ideological importance, and that is why you are facing the crisis as an extraordinary treaty and do not take measures of a lasting and stable character, even though the Change Movement has repeatedly called for an overall planning that will shield public health structures against any possible future pandemic. The policy of fear, rigour, restrictions and social surprise must finally be brought to an end. We are not going to tolerate the continuation of the government's serious anti-parliamentary practice. We call for the immediate withdrawal of the post-dated amendments, of the last minute's photographic arrangements. If this does not happen, we are obliged to vote against the bill at first, calling for a roll-call vote in individual articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Poula. Vice-President George Lambroulis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. As we have set ourselves in the committee's meetings, with regard to the chapter on the Ministry of Health, the main arrangements concern the continuation of insufficient measures, the contingencies in dealing with the shortages in medical and nursing staff in the public structures, of course measures which correspond to the government's assessment that public health units should not be 'loaded' with personnel who will not be required after the pandemic. The shortcomings that existed were evident and were before pandemic, while now they have taken explosive proportions. In addition, the Government is making use of the disastrous situation of public health establishments which it has combined with all previous governments up to now with a view to the future of even more commercialised and business-based, so-called new RS. Instead of permanent necessary recruitment, instead of directly simulating all those working in the public health system with all types of flexible forms of work, the Government continues its policy of temporary work, travel through the three-month extensions provided for in the draft law, i.e. staff, which is, in any case, necessary in non-experienced situations. Remove health infrastructure - convert beds - for the needs of patients COVID, i.e. clinics and hospitals of a disease, multiplying the unsatisfactory needs of patients with other diseases. And of course, you do not reopen the hospitals that have been closed and maintained by the next rulers, while you continue the well-known compulsory use of spaces, materials, means of transport, private beds for remuneration to businessmen instead of the actual unpaid retirement. In fact, you also reach the point against the need to develop regular, not extraordinary beds of IF and MFN, with full equipment and essential staffing, with the relevant provision of the bill practically to baptize IF and MFN spaces that do not meet the necessary specifications in spaces, equipment and, above all, personnel who must be treated. We are entering the third year of pandemic and in the face of the fifth wave of the public health system - primary health care, hospitals - to have the same signature as those of the boom protocols, cut and sewn in the measures of the employer, schools operating on even worse terms, workplaces and means of transport that are the centres of overtransmission. It is the same signature as that of the even lower budget for hospitals and primary health care provided for in the budget for 2022, following all the cuts by each government in previous years, but also the continuation of the suspension of thousands of health workers on the basis of the certificates of vaccination that opened and pave the way for the extension of their use for further anti-population measures until redundancies in the private sector, unacceptable controls and restrictions. In fact, you are going to the point of heads, managers, to replace working doctors with regard to the issues of workers’ vaccination. Well, that's modern. You continue the same deadlocked policy that has brought us here. You continue to invest in the doctrine "health - individual responsibility" and in social automation by making use of the vaccine weapon in this direction by enforcing reactive measures and in fact by cultivating irrationality. You still claim the situation is manageable. And, really, how many ranches or how many tubed out of the IM won't the situation be manageable? You continue to reject any proposal by hospital doctors, the working people's movement to substantially strengthen the public health system and continue to implement the same policy of recycling and movements of personnel, literally the stinging of deprived personnel of stripped primary health care. At the same time as you are denouncing irrationalism, you are themselves - the government - its expressors, in order to hide your heavy government responsibilities for the development of pandemic, after you have reached the point of denying intensive treatment, modern medicine, science itself to justify it. Really, for the deaths that have not been given the opportunity for patients to fight for their lives, who is to blame? Because obviously if something is pushing the health system, it is not the virus after two years of pandemic, nor the lack of individual responsibility, but the policy of subscribing and marketing which all governments have been applying over the years. This is particularly important in the light of the controversy which broke out around the well-known study of teachers, which confirmed what thousands of exhausted sanitaries have been shouting at the first moment, namely that, to deal with the pandemic, in order to save people's lives, hundreds of new fully staffed IF beds, recruitment of permanent staff, opening up public hospitals to which they have put a bathtub and kept all the governments of the last ten years closed down, the private sector, a generalised vaccination programme that will leave nothing to their fate through pharmacological surveillance, the enhancement of primary health care, the monitoring of vaccinated animals, free preventive tests, individual information, disposal of all approved vaccines and medicines respectively, and so on. But at the same time that a new axe falls into the budget for 2022, when the pandemic is reaping lives, taxation on the people is escalating, while the privileges and billions for the few take crazy proportions, what do Ministers receive from the government from health workers, workers and people in the fair demands, for example, of the private sector or the opening up and running of hospitals that have been closed down by previous governments and others? The fact that we do not have communism in Greece to ask for private sector requisition, staff recruitment and the opening of hospitals that closed down. What did they say? In order not to be dead, to open hospitals, there must be communism. Well, they'll probably know something about it! As they also know very well that the system you yourself and the governments over time, capitalism, that is, does not consider a luxurious health system to be abundant, as you say, after the pandemic. So says the government repeatedly, striving to corner the pandemic's management to the cost-benefit criterion. It is a system that promotes the bazaars with the clinicians instead of unconditionally ordering their infrastructures. A system that sees pandemic as an opportunity to promote reactionary restructuring in health through the so-called 'new ERC' business action with rehearsal generas the generalized contractors due to staff shortages, health movements, closures, mergers, conversions of clinics and so on. A system, which all governments support, which sees health as a field of business, with private individuals being fed on any shortage in hospitals and primary health care, to attenuate their profits from every day waiting for a minimum examination. It is the policy of hospitals-union corporations, the PPPs such as what SYRIZA inaugurated at the Santorini Hospital, a policy that divides the health pie into groups, but leaves the people exposed with minimal benefits. It is precisely the same criminal anti-grassroots policy that turns the vaccine from a valuable weapon to deal with pandemic, a convenient alibi for the state and the employer to solve what it costs, so that individual responsibility can be established at the same time. This system serves over time all governments - New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - with your policies regardless of any administrative differences, in order to disorientate the people, to cover up your strategic partnership in a policy criminal for the health of the people. Faithful in the directions of the European Union that undermines the public health system, which trades it and spreads the primary health care, which strengthens the business groups that perpetuate, take advantage of the well-known study by exchanging heavy words, cockles and go and say. It is precisely with this policy and the exploitive system you are serving that the working people should be involved at a time when it is confirmed that there is no right to protect them which is not being stumbled on in the health strategy, which is not conflicting with business action. That is where the working people's movement must aim, claiming every measure that can save lives, at the same time strengthening the fight for an exclusively public and free health system that will serve people's needs. Because if something was revealed in the most dramatic way in a pandemic, it is the policy of underfining and marketing health systems, with the great shortages in hospitals, the misery in primary health care in all capitalist states and in the European Union, the choice to support the private sector, a policy that has been implemented and implemented by all the urban governments and which supports all urban parties who, however, accept business activity in health, is truly incompatible with defending the health of the people. And this policy, this system, is only overturned. At the same time that you refuse to satisfy the legitimate demands for the health of the people, because they are the costs for the state and the capital, you are advancing another gift arrangement between the many until now that all governments have made at the request of the pharmaceutical and other operators in order to reduce the sums necessarily to be reimbursed to the EEA as expenditure exceeds. In other words, you are giving a gift of some millions at the same time as spending on hospitals and primary health care is being axed. Similarly, at the same time as you refuse to satisfy the fair demands with regard to the health system, since they are costs to the state as you say, you come with Article 82, for example, by amending the concession agreement for the Eleusina - Tower - Chacona motorway and you offer wealthy privileges and money of several millions, contributing to the great fame that has been set up for the Euro-Union monopolies of the construction sector and not only through public contracts and concessions that all governments have supported and supported - New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA - since you are strategically co-financed by the full implementation of the strategic choices made by the European Union and the capital and their directives for the liberalisation of the system of major construction works. This also leads to the market being one-stop shop by a number of large groups, but above all to the impact it has on the labour market, the self-employed, the overall popular needs which are now experienced by major road projects. Our people pay them to build themselves through anti-grass measures and taxation, and they pay and pay for their use. The rules of the Ministry of Transport are also in place. The Government actually comes to ensure the continuity of the State financing and profitability of TRAINOSE, a subsidiary of the Italian State monopoly on rail transport, with the relevant premium for the many millions and on the grounds of covering the barren rail passenger transport, as is done in maritime or air transport. This provision does not concern technical matters and, of course, this is a legislative action following on from previous ones. In 2013, the Government of New Democracy - PASOK brought the GOI and then the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL the privatisation of TRAINOSE and infrastructure. They are serving all this to privatise rail transport and to ensure the profitability of business groups in this sector not only by hot money, as foreseen, which you have provided to them otherwise, but also by the intensity of the exploitation of workers in the sector and the needs of the people. And all this through repeated blackmail and threats to workers in the industry and the people to support the anti-grassroots choices of the government, the previous governments and the monopolies, whether this was a state monopoly or a private monopoly, as is also mentioned in the explanatory statement. And we're coming to the Department of Shipping. Of course, you could not spoil the carpet here by suggesting the implementation of shipowners' demands. Thus, the Government of New Democracy, at the request of shipowners, like the previous Governments of SYRIZA and PASOK, continues to further downgrade and convert maritime education into training for the acquisition of skills through tele-education for the creation of cheap labour, with expendable knowledge, by exploiting pandemic. You are bringing in arrangements by which the anti-educational reactive measures that you are promoting in the whole of course, and especially in this area, with a disguised nerve, are presented as measures that will make the functioning of maritime education structures and the service of seafarers smoothly. And you did this at the same time as distance teaching and telecommunications continue with huge shortages in education and infrastructure and during the current academic year 2021 - 2022, creating additional problems for students to leave maritime schools. Therefore, the Government and shipowners do not have as their goal the application of telematics for the current academic year, but tend to consolidate a system for maritime education and retraining of seafarers in the academies of the Merchant Navy, the KESEN and the other public maritime schools. At the same time, the government and shipowners make use of certificates of maritime training as formal elements in the application of the national and international laws of the capitalist economy with the shipowners' commercial relations, with the monopoly and insurance companies, to justify the destruction, loss of goods, accidents, diseases and everything to ensure profitability. So, as we have asked in committee, what measures does the government take to ensure that seafarers' certificates are not a formal procedure in maritime schools with intermediate slave trade offices to protect the health and life of seafarers and, more generally, human life at sea? At the same time, we have tabled a series of proposals concerning maritime education, the retraining of all the members of the specialities combined with the need to increase the organic composition of seafarers in ships, and precisely the screaming of thousands of seafarers in the boats, but also the unemployed in a long-standing decommissioning on land, because they cannot be covered through the demagogic declarations of shipowners of the Government or the Minister of Shipping. Firstly, measures should be taken to repatriate people and, respectively, to pay the EUR 600 allowance to all unemployed inclusive seamen in front of the holidays. Measures shall be taken to ensure that seafarers’ certificates contribute to the upgrading of professional knowledge and the protection of the health of human life at sea and in general navigation. To abolish the relevant legislation in order to stop the misappropriation of shipowners - from where? - from maritime education. Ensure financial resources to meet the needs of students and seafarers in maritime schools. To cover the monthly education allowance and insurance at NAT - ECA student practice on board ships through the seamen's collective labour contracts. We expect answers from the Minister, the government. For Articles 86 and 87, by means of these regulations, the Government is able to grant new privileges - to shipowners and monopolies operating in ports, ports, ports, ports, Anonymous companies - to transport respectively to tourism along the country's coastline and to the detriment of the people and the environment. Mr President, as far as Article 88 is concerned, which enables farmers to obtain insurance information in order to be borrowed from the banks, the problem is the over-lapping of farmers and the need to delete interest, interest and capital cuts. This must be solved by the government with a brave 'cut'. The granting of new loans to who favours? It favours banks that are secured by milking the farmer's subsidy and, of course, have certain profitability. And I'm closing up with the articles you mention, the Ministry of Education. This is indeed a further step in the wake of and connection to the educational abortion that the government voted on in the summer, i.e. stepping up the deterioration of the educational level of the school, the pupils through the skills and intensity of the cultural inequalities. So what are you doing? You are shaping through these regulations the ground for a merchandise environment in the school book, which comes to button with the provision for a multiple and differentiated book by expanding skills - Article 123, which in no case corresponds to the need for complete acquisition of the knowledge of young children, students. With regard to the arrangements of the Ministry of Labour, Articles 89 to 98, the urgent provisions on the regulation of labour relations and on social security are used in organograms, setting up groups for the management of programmes for the management of part-time and part-time work. Of course, it is not the organograms or anything else that makes government responsibilities out of the castle. The sub-commissioning and the inactive role of the APRC shall not be solved by the extensions of the terms of office of the Heads. At the same time, OLAF is being devalued and charged by the employees of the agency the tragic situation from the consequences of thousands of pensioners living due to the time-consuming responsibilities all governments have in total in awarding pensions. Contractors are not your work and not just yours. It is the result of a policy that faced workers as a cost. That is why hundreds of contractors naturally flood hundreds of times respectively. You are perpetuating a situation which creates disparities in wages, working relationships, the working hours between workers who do exactly the same work. Finally, Mr President, with the questions to the Minister or State Secretary for Sports and the Ministry of Culture concerning the transitional provision contained in the bill concerning the National Sports Centre in Olympiacos Village. We have also asked the committees, but also throughout the previous period, the autonomy of the centre in how it will be achieved. This provision does not specify anything. Is it going to work backwards? Will he sell services? If it is not financed by the State, how will it work? What does autonomy mean? We're going to the logic of self-financing, which means finding funds, so payrolls, so new ravages to the people for the use of infrastructures that should have them for free anyway? We're waiting for clarification. And one last thing I would like to say: we are waiting for the Minister, from what he said yesterday, and the Minister who was in committee, in his current position - to speak about the question that we have asked in relation to the workers who conclude their contracts 31-12 via the EAFRD. I'll wait for an answer for these workers. Otherwise they are fired on 31-12 and, of course, units, hospitals or primary health care centres where they work or similar reception centres of immigrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u29	"PHILOS" are you saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u30	Yes, through "PHILOS" from 2017 yet. They will therefore remain without these workers, who are also necessary, of course, and of course they too want to continue working, but of course the corresponding units that work will remain without staff with what this entails for their operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Maria Athanasios, a special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Today's announcements of the Prime Minister canceled yesterday's announcements of government officials by substantiating that we have a government of 'one step forward - one step behind' and 'I do not do'. At a critical moment Greece has a fearful and dangerous government, a government of retreat until its final departure. Today it has proved once again that the decisions to tackle the pandemic are not taken by experts and committees, but by the Prime Minister himself. So or until now any failure in the management of the pandemic has been named: Mitsotakis. In any case, the self test, which you have announced, Mr Minister, you know that their results are at stake. And the mandatory rapids you think would be a burden on the citizens' pockets. There are holidays coming. We have a pandemic. So give free rapid test and not self test for everyone without exception, vaccinated or invasive, over sixty, under sixty, sanitary incubation. Give the world the opportunity to celebrate safely without punishment and obsessive measures. Today, in the Greek Parliament, the debate on another heterogeneous multi-billion plan is concluded. As regards the first part of the draft law, which concerns the Ministry of Health, we have tabled our views on the treatment of pandemic, which, two years after its inception, has been dealt with by the government in an unexplained way. Legislation in the air with extensions and you do not in any way solve the fundamental chronic diseases of the National Health System that are commonly acknowledged by the bodies we have heard, but also by the public as a whole, its continued underhand in infrastructure, staff and of course its incomplete funding. Twenty thousand dead, the abandoned and defenseless RSH, the repetitive personalities of the Government of New Democracy are major problems. The sad deaths that we have been experiencing, especially in recent months, are the strongest proof of the government's inefficient and failed policy on the management of the pandemic. Hundreds of patients die outside ICU, while the government has chosen not to support the ESS. He is the Prime Minister who has to explain whether he was aware of the study of Chiodra - Lytra on mortality, especially outside the ICU. There are even irregularities in the introduction of branded patients to ICUs that highlight the tragic situation in which we are in. In particular, on the basis of the information published in the published study, the management of pandemic at all levels on the part of the government was the cause of the number of deaths that now characterise our country, because primary care is not fully available and therefore there is a weakness at home for the disease and not just from the coronary. The government is deceiving and bypassing the health institutions, IFs, PSs and an evaluation committee. It is unable to issue serious diagnostic and, above all, therapeutic protocols for each stage of hospitalisation. It is of interest to introduce the hopeful means of dealing with pandemic - treatment antibodies, as our President said a long time ago - while he is obsessed with emergency vaccines approved. Italy has already administered monoclonal antibodies to twenty-five thousand patients. We only got two thousand. The Government is unable to provide a decent secondary treatment for the disease, but is unable to cope with the intangible hospital patients without treatment and personnel. It follows the method of unreasonable, unreasonable, unscientific, punishable and vengeful persecution and the displacement of invasive health from their positions of responsibility, leading to an absolute collapse of the already prepared health system, resulting in an excessive increase in mortality beyond 20% with or from COVID and unrelated to the reduction or vaccination of our fellow humans. Our health workers are out today and are complaining about the gross injustice and the financial hardship that you have brought them, first in the history of such extortion, such discrimination, such punishment. The government misinforms, hides information and terrorizes the population through the media. It imposes inappropriately and without planning and meaningless confinement, resulting in the destruction of the economy. The Government has shown that there is no pharmacovigilance of unjustified, mass, compulsory, unscheduled and irresponsible vaccination. It has led citizens to lose their trust in science, by suffocating, marginalising and prosecuting objective doctors and scientists, but it has also led to a depreciation of the political and legal system. It has hit freedom, democracy, transparency and our culture. It invests in splitting and leads to the collapse of the social fabric. The government insists that the problem is only the strong refusal of a large proportion of the population to be vaccinated. The increasing number of deaths, among them vaccinated, as well as the mutations of the virus, detest it categorically. The World Health Organisation notes that the vaccine alone does not solve the problem. It needs strengthening health systems and completely redesigning primary health, which the Greek Government refuses to do. The government has refused for a number of months to explain why our country is the first to deaths per million in recent months among all the western countries. He refuses to bend over the problem, to recognize the causes and weaknesses. It has been shown that the term 'invasive pandemic' was not only false and biased, but extremely dangerous and potentially destructive for public health, because the explosion of cases followed the immunity which the government dispersed by giving absolute freedom to the fully vaccinated and along with the illusion that they are not at risk from the pandemic. And I repeat: He gave hallucinations. In conclusion, the government has failed to manage the pandemic at almost all levels. Instead of relying on lies, it is better to change politics and listen to the Greek Solution proposals. In this bill the dominant word in most of the provisions is the word "expansion" and even quarterly. As regards Articles 2 to 5, the Government with extensions of subsidiary contracts and staff movements is trying to fill gaps in staff, in particular in hospitals in the region. Where are the famous subsidiary simulations? Civic promises. If we take into account all seven thousand unvaccined health workers who still have them on a job suspension, we understand how little effectiveness these extensions are and how terriblely difficult the National Health System is coming. Article 6 provides for the possibility for qualified doctors in the ESS sector to transfer to an organic IM, MFF or MEL position. Is it possible to move qualified, without any elementary training, to ICUs into high-demand units, just to surface the intensive without intensive and trained personnel and to bring an amendment to the impunity? In the provisions of Articles 7 to 9, the deterioration of primary health care appears to be apparent. Take care of primary health care at last! Many Greeks ended up in their homes helpless because of the nonexistent family doctor. Gentlemen, you are well aware that a solution would have been to have carried out by way of emergency the medicines already authorised by the FDA, approved by the end of 2020. The drug binds the virus, so the load is lost and it stops transmission. The vaccine, however, did not know whether it would stop the virus, as it did. Even Mr Burla admitted it at the time, 'it was an impediment'. But something so important, your channels and your government have silenced it. However, you proceeded to the vaccine orders before they even got permission. You were ordering, gentlemen of the government. These medicines were finally licensed - end! - for use outside hospitals at the initial stage of illness and were shown to reduce hospitalization. Of course, they are granted home-to-house treatment, which presupposes the proper functioning of primary health care, which all of you, all the parties that ruled, had left to God's mercy. Knowing, therefore, that all of you have a share of responsibility for its treatment, it was a one-way to support vaccines with emergency permission and to base the mandatory vaccination on, despite the fact that - according to the Coreper - all the side effects have not been recorded and no one yet knows what they may be or may not be. But that is why time is needed, because they need to be seen in depth. Medical, you know, is based on responsibility and observation. And it is not only that you left to God's mercy the primary care of health, but you have devalued the health carers of higher health care, that is, our hospitals, who are employed in their on-calls from the most trivial incident as the most critical. You have abandoned the National Health System to work thanks to the esteem of the suffering health. It is characteristic that their wages are in Europe's second lowest position with the last of Bulgaria, much lower than the Romanians, Slovaks and Czech colleagues, three times below the Cypriots and four times below the Maltese. Yes, doctors in Malta are paid four times the wages paid by our Greek doctors at the ESS. Let us not mention the Germans, the Belgians or the Scandinavian doctors. In Article 16 ‘Prolongation of the delegation of services by the National Public Health Agency for the examination of samples to private providers’, we note that the Government continues to direct the examination by the EGE of COVID 19 case samples. The private diagnostic clinics and the respective diagnostic centres are working in a fierce way to obtain profits, which could save the public for the benefit of the Greek taxpayer. This delegation declares your clear intention to join private individuals, even where there is no need, and obviously serves their speculative interests, as it leaves them with every margin of horrendous profit, in glossy sizes of four-digit percentages between supply and cost. Individuals charge EUR 7 to 10 for diagnostic examinations, taking advantage of the circumstances. The same is true in Article 19. The Greeks do not cover their insurance funds sufficiently and decently, so they are forced to resort to the private sector. For example, dialysis - subject kidney patients cannot prescribe medicines to doctors in the neighborhood who have contracted and have to go to a hospital, while at the same time the state fully protects and covers immigrants and integrates them into vulnerable social groups. That's the bitter truth. In Article 22, the conduct of rapid molecular tests, rapid test - profitable occupation - from first-degree OTAs are extended. The LAGs may award by public contracts the sale of such diagnostic examinations. This results in the complete absence of any control of contract terms and we are therefore in complete opaque to bilateral agreements. Thus, the interests of individuals are wonderfully served at the expense of public wealth. On the other hand, under Article 29, you determine the compensation of private clinics and therapists who have undertaken to meet the needs of the pandemic. Of course, you protect your "local" and private clinics with tax-free and irresponsible compensation. For individuals, there is the irresponsible and tax-free. For the doctors' newspapers? And then you wonder where he's not responding to the notices? Article 33 is used as a pretext for combating pandemic, for prolonging direct assignments - by way of derogation from the texts - to provide health and logistics materials. You have had all the time to reconstruct, in accordance with the existing provisions, the procurement procedures, of material in the public interest and the savings of resources, which you have carefully avoided once again. Article 39. The Minister for Health may simply decide to start the law and exclude examinations, medications and treatments from this compulsory public prescription. It is unacceptable that the Minister should have so many superpowers, that citizens are divided into trustworthy and unreliable. The law is not just against the poor and vulnerable, but also against the middle-class, which is the pillar of the economy. Of course, we must not forget that you are equating illegal immigrants with Greeks. In Article 44, it is again mentioned in clawback, which is a Memorandumary Obligation that began in 2012 with a view to lasting until 2018, you extend it until 2025. What for? It is something that needs to be removed immediately. Article 49. The new objective values appear to be increased up to 250% in a large number of areas that touch, about seven thousand across the country. Please clarify who exactly is relieved in this way, because we all understand that tolls are increasing in these areas. In Article 50, we must not fail to mention that the suffocating tax and insurance framework, unfortunately, force many - poorly - to tax in order for their families to survive. Why does the measure of electronic transactions not apply to medical expenses, when many citizens have been forced to turn to private clinics and doctors on serious health issues beyond the coronary? As regards Article 82, this section was replied to by the Olympic Road concession in 2013 and was declared a public project in 2014. After two and a half years with a government of New Democracy, the road is still at stage zero. Sadly, though, human lives are lost along with the years. They are responsible for privatising, on the one hand, subscription and, in particular, for ensuring the profitability of business groups in the service sector, through the facilities offered by the Government. Minister, we have asked both committees whether this project will be financed by 85% by the European Union, as Mr Karamanlis had said in the committee responsible. We need to know this so that we know what we are going to vote on. You haven't given us an answer. With Articles 95 and 96, the tailor-made raft was going on to EVKA for the eyes of the world and the stumbling of Greek citizens continues, as the unfinished pensions are continuing and growing. They've been pending a hundred and fifty-two thousand main pensions since September 2021. Article 111, enables simple administrative officers of the municipal police to exercise responsibility for the municipal police. This poses serious risks of their problematic exercise, which may be to the detriment of the citizens, since they usually do not have the necessary supplies and qualifications for these officials. As regards the provisions of the Ministry of Immigration, the rules do not concern the treatment of pandemic. These are arrangements for extensions, by way of derogation, of recruitment and contracts. It is clear that in the area of immigration there is an unsolved bucket with recruitment, by way of derogation, of provisions, rents on real estate and parcels, structures and services - and for asylum seekers - and it concerns money flowing abundantly. Of course we are not surprised, it is now self-evident that you are promoting the interests of immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, if primary health care were to function, we would be mourning much less victims. If you hadn't abandoned the ESS, the hospital burden would have been considerably smaller, the number of severely ill, too, because their care would have been more personalised, more effective and more humane. They need people who will be able to assist them medically, but also humanly and not people who faint from fatigue and depreciation. The daily hundreds of us are experiencing each day would be a distant and incomprehensible scenario, not a normality with which we have, unfortunately, compromise and accept it calmly and fatally. Why? Because, unfortunately, you and your policy have deprived the choices of the people. You choose for him! You've split him, you've terrified him, you've abandoned him, you've laughed him! Too bad, gentlemen! Greeks deserve much better luck than the one you have chosen to keep them. I hope you hear the voice of the Opposition before it's too late for the future of our country! Greek Solution is voting against this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Athanasios. The floor is now on the special speaker of Mera25, Mrs Apatzides, and we will be adjourning the sitting of this bill and entering the special agenda, which concerns the removal of immunity from Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, at 12 noon, to be in the Chamber. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the last meeting of the year, we are debating today a bill which is pretextary for the Ministry of Health, for dealing with the coronary, whereas in essence it contains provisions of fifteen ministries making donations of every kind to the oligarchs. The government, as good Santa Claus, remembers her friends of the few, shortly before Christmas, and makes any sort of arrangements and offers. This shameful bill is passed one day when we live in Kavala at times of unprecedented police violence and repression against workers. We recall that a few months ago Mitsotakis S.A. had given ENERGEAN OIL state guarantees worth 100m euros - Listenson-Audison! - on the pretext of strengthening the company's viability for the protection of jobs. The company, however, has already begun redundancies and wage reductions since the next gift of "Metsotakis S.A.". Yesterday, on the government's mandate, MAT forces invaded the Kavala oil factory in order to suppress workers' protection for safe operation, thereby creating extremely dangerous conditions. According to the workers' complaints, during the intervention, the MATs used steep-Light grenades, resulting in fire in a transformer. Hundreds of workers were found surrounded by repression forces inside the factory in a high-risk tower. This is a criminal act, the intervention you're doing. It endangers the safety of the installations, and we have not grieved victims of miracles. We demand that the government of Mitsotakis S.A. stop this attempt to suppress the struggle of workers and not to interfere with MATs. With regard to the bill, however, it is highly hypocritical the title "Confidences..." - you see - "... to deal with the pandemic of the COVID-19 coronary and the protection of public health and other emergency provisions", as well as only for forty-four percent of six articles concern public health and, more generally, COVID. All the rest, which are the responsibility of the remaining fourteen ministries, contain gifts of every kind and of course the lion's share is directed towards the parasitic oligarchs. The most impressive example is the 262m euros on the "Olympia Road S.A." as an additional financial contribution to the construction of the Patras section - Tower of the concession contract on the Eleusina - Corinth - Patras - Tsakona motorway. That Article 82 is extremely plural. In other words, this is a convention signed on 15 December 2021 and submitted to Parliament for ratification on the same day. And the government brings this bill to the vote on Christmas. You see, the "Metsotakis S.A." is indeed Santa, which brings gifts to the fewer and makes sense just before Christmas to have a similar share of gifts. Gentlemen of the government, you are reckless that at Mera25 we often call the Government "Anonymous Mitsotakis Company S.A.". Now, it becomes clear and why we are doing so. Because it is a government that performs contracts for oligarchy. So the provisions of the bills are on their way from where else? From the legal offices of the oligarchs' business groups! And "Metsotakis S.A." undertakes to spend all night together, packed and in terms of fast track! In the "Petsotted" media of course we will hear nothing about them, because the "mediums of mass deception" belong, you see, to the fewer and fewer people will never unleash themselves. When you are doing so with the parliamentary authorities of good law, tell us exactly what procedures we should follow? What bodies can we call on Parliament? If you want, tell us better, the legal offices that are behind the bill, so that we can invite them as bodies and know who your real mandates are, because obviously your Greek people are not the Greek people, but the few-government and legal offices of the oligarchs who compose the articles of your bills, many of which are more of the character of the conventions. You are using, in other words, as a pretext for donating gifts to the oligars the long - suffering health space when we have every day hundreds of dead. And I return to the health provisions. You anticipate extensions. It doesn't explain otherwise, that's your favorite word. You need to bring in provisions that prolong emergency situations, because you do not make any substantial thoughts to provide permanent solutions with permanent healthcare intakes, with permanent MSF creations, which will remain dowry, a reserve of the ESS. And all this, you know why? Because you really want to privatise the ESS. That is why you do not want a permanent solution, but simply extensions with this bill. It is ironic that you of the New Democracy had as your election slogan the regularity, you who, like this, simply prolong forever, at least until the Greek people have sent you away, a state of constant urgency, no solution to problems and a complete lack of regularity. And that is no longer an accident, but it is a structural feature of your Government, because you really do not want permanent solutions in the health field, because your objective is the strategic dissolution with a view to privatisation. In Articles 1 to 44, therefore, the whole word is 'extensions'. Many of these extensions are acts of legislative content in 2020, extensions usually for a quarter. And I ask you directly, Mr Plouri, this will not be a pandemic after March when we have the 'Omicon' mutation and the 'Delta' mutation. It seems, in other words, that this 'last mile' of pandemic will be going on for a long time, this'monster' time' will be eaten for a long time, as the mutations are happening all the time and the government will simply lay down provisions of a completely obtuse temporary nature, such as Articles 1 to 37. In the case of this article and in the case of the vaccination programme, the Government has only bet on vaccination by targeting them unvaccinated. You divide the people into'sprayed' and 'negatives'. But the truth is that the worst squatter is the Prime Minister of the government who is the greatest negative. He is negative of the utility of the IFs, negative of the scientific studies, negative of the truth. Mr. Theodore Lytras has made it clear that the government was aware of the relevant scientific findings and indirectly denounced but clearly your lies. In other words, we have a Prime Minister who was negative of truth and science, when he was talking about mortality in the Greek Parliament. It is regrettable that the work of government experts has cost us that the people no longer trust the government, the state and sometimes because of you and science. And that is why the vaccination programme is not going well either. As MERA25 we are proposing a combination of vaccinations and the creation of a public mass network free of charge, in which an anonymous application will be developed which will be recorded for a period of not more than one week, with a view to using negative tests for access to specific multi-purpose areas. On the contrary, your vaccination certificate allows vaccinated COVID-19 carriers to never be checked again, but to move freely without even knowing they are vectors. However, in the first forty-four articles on health is the pretext to pass a number of other articles with all kinds of service, "gifts" and photographic arrangement. I speed up some of them, because time will not be enough for all, since we have about 100 articles. We have the photographic article 62 on the permit for the use of existing unlicensed structures or in excess of such structures and the addition of paragraph 8 to Article 14A of Law 2971/2001, which is obviously photographic in favour of specific interests. First of all, SYRIZA with Law 4607/2019 revised Law 2971/2001 concerning the Aegean Sea, the coast and other provisions, opening the way for the licensing of the concession for projects carried out until 28 July 2011 in the Aegean Sea, the coast, etc. without authorisation, irrespective of the issue of a demolition protocol by individuals, to serve inter alia industrial, extractive, energy, shipbuilding repairers and so on. By means of this legislative intervention, i.e. by adding Article 14a to Law 2971/2001, the private person who had unlawfully carried out works on the Aegean until that date could legalise them by decision of the Ministry of Finance by making a request to the competent residential body. However, the regulation introduced by the New Democracy extends the authorisation if the projects concerned are subject to any extensions and improvements that are functionally linked and are an organic whole of them, irrespective of their construction time, provided that a decision on the whole project has been adopted to approve environmental conditions. This is a significant diversion and deterioration of the environment by the already bad environmental regulation made by SYRIZA. We are also opposed to Article 71, which is another example of how the Government treats forest protection. For the procedure for conducting operations, pruning and logging of forests in public and private forest areas, as well as in parks and algae, the ‘DEDO S.A.’ shall become responsible. This is an unacceptable regulation that is totally insulting when a similar ecological disaster has taken place in our forests under the responsibility of the government last summer. Article 73 extends for one year industrial zones for aquaculture. As a PARTA25, we do not think that any such extension should be granted. The illegal location of farms has been legalised since 2011 with a view to creating areas of organised aquaculture development, i.e. huge marine and land-based intensive industrial production areas managed by the aquaculture companies. However, there has never been the general spatial framework for the marine space. Thus, the basic rules of logic and planning have been violated, but also the obligations of our country to the European Union. It is noteworthy that the aquaculture companies, despite the hundreds of millions of European funding received over time, charged the banking system with debts of EUR 1 billion during the memorandum period. The majority of them are now controlled by just two multinational funds. We believe that the authorisation procedure for organised aquaculture areas needs to be suspended until a general maritime spatial framework is established and that local government assent to each licensing procedure is provided for as necessary. It is an issue of ecological salvation of the areas, as after the establishment of the WIPOs, Ietalo-Carnania and the surrounding islands, the northern and southern Evian, Saronic and many other coastal areas are delivered to fish farming by violating the will of local communities and by handing over the country's environmental wealth to a newly bankrupt industry, which went bankrupt, despite the millions of European subsidies that it received in previous years and caused losses of more than EUR 1 billion in the banking system. The planned increase of WHIs will be discarded daily at sea sewage from fish, medicines, food, etc. This is an ecological degradation that must be avoided. Under Article 138, the sports facilities of the Olympic Country coach centre in Acharnes are seconded by the General Secretariat of Sports and become a separate legal person under public law. On the one hand, it may seem positive that something is moving in the direction of reviving for years the Olympic facilities, but on the other hand, we cannot be sceptical about the 'Metsotakis S.A.', which only moves the oligarchy, not the interests of the people, the citizens. We warn that the Olympic facilities are the property of the Greek people and not a commodity for divestment or a profit field for the oliggers. We all know that converting public property to a legal person from a small public body such as the General Secretariat of Sports, is the first step to join or ninety-nine years hired to an international or local oligopoly via the GOI and the Supreme Authority respectively. I repeat once again that we do not trust the "Metsotakis S.A.". Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time - you are making a fuss - to locate and highlight all the problematic photographic provisions that have been hidden behind this bill, as you have set the bill for the Ministry of Health as a pretext. In dentistry we will have the opportunity to look at some more. The only thing is for sure that this is a bill which we must denounce on its content and on its insidious anti-democratic methodology. We are also calling for the withdrawal of the amendments that have been tabled, in fact, this morning and we are voting against at first instance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to suspend the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Health for a short time to discuss the request for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering SPECIFIC MATTER PROTECTION Request for waiver of immunity: debate and decision under Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the House on the request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Nikolaos Pappas. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 14 December this year, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that Mr Nicholas Pappas' immunity should be waived. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. I would also remind you that your vote concerns the request of the prosecutor, namely those who wish to vote in favour or against the waiver of immunity. For anyone who wishes to do so, he may vote in favour of it. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I said before. So the case concerns Mr Nikolaos Papapas - as soon as he entered the Chamber and my colleague - and the prosecution's application is based on a complaint, that is, a journalist named Thanos Diides, against Mr Papapas for slandering. It is an incident that has - to connect it - its continuity, as in September 2016 Mr. Pappas as Minister has gone to the United States, and there he accused Mr. Deiades of following him disguisedly. This is true, during the lawsuit, according to what has emerged and that Denkis was even arrested. It follows that it was never arrested, as is apparent from the diplomatic service documents of the United States Department of Foreign Affairs. Mr Deiades then had made an application against Mr Papapas. The then Committee on Parliamentary Ethics decided by a majority that, given the fact that it was Minister, the procedure of the Ministerial Responsibility Act had to be applied. We now come to the case at issue, namely the complaint brought by Mr Denkis again. It is about a post which Mr Papapas took on 12 July on the same subject, which, of course, photographed Mr Denktash. So we have this application. The committee voted by a majority to waive Mr Pappa's immunity. We shall give the floor to Mr Pappa here. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the majority, I would like you to pay a little more attention than you have given when Mr Athanasios described the case, so that you can understand what you are calling on to vote and what you are calling to support. When we started on our own governance trying to legislate and observe the Constitution in the television landscape, we had absolutely calculated that economic, political and mintarian factors would launch a rabies attack on us. We were ready and counted on the extent, nature and style of the attack that we would have as members of a elected government, as representatives of the people, who are finally attempting to comply with the constitutional requirement for the licensing of television stations after thirty years. We've been attacked. The main and most important thing is not the criticism the media has made of fair and unrighteous. I think the people have come to their conclusion. And we have also been attacked by attempts to blackmail, we have also been slandered and slandered. This, of course, is not only about my face, but about the government that I have had the honour of serving. We were also aware that there would be times when we would have to defend the self-evident right to reply and a documented counterpart to practices which are not appropriate to a democratic country, to reach the first authorization of television channels after thirty years and to the requirement of the public, validated and by a decision of the National Broadcasting Council and by a decision of the Council of State, to claim the publicity of EUR 250 million. Sadly, your resignation violated the Constitution for thirty years. For thirty years, several decisions of the Council of State have not been implemented. Now, the Constitution is being observed. Unfortunately, you have attempted to set up a pre-examination which has resulted in pragmatism. The prosecutors themselves ended up unprecedentedly withdrawing the core of the indictment. And that is what I think it should be taught how you choose to clamp down and situations which should be anger rather than a raw material for political controversy. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, no rotting operation would make us retreat. We are proud of the effort we have made and yielded fruit. We are proud of why our choice is justified every time you propose our persecution, with your data and your works and your days. Within the four years of SYRIZA’s governance I was also personally in the microscope of a system that attempted to build negative events and create negative feelings against me. Apparently they didn't find anything stubborn or in my way of life, nor in my supposedly suspicious meetings. They used everything, bugs, telephonies, even posting photos of my personal life. So there was for a period of time a bar of papers against me. The frequency and intensity of publications leave no margin of misinterpretation. There are publications which have been based on a continuous and continuous follow-up of me. I do not know and I do not know whether the circles that have been inspired and carried out by this project have been following other colleagues. I do not know and I do not know - you should be concerned - if circles themselves continue the same tactics after government change. Watch out for the ferry you're trying to open. Then, in the summer of 2020, I asked a crucial question: who are these mechanisms working for? And I was asking: Was it on behalf of any service or Mr. Mitsotakis? Would the Greek state control which centres they had organised and carried out these monitoring and to what purpose? Could our democracy tolerate, how much more could it embrace, open monitoring of an active member of the Greek Government? Unfortunately, we did not get any answers at all. Instead, we now come to the intention of legitimising the monitoring of the Greek Republic's ministers, with a recommendation from the majority itself. On what excuse? On the grounds that the New Democracy does not recognize that as a public person and a former Minister I have the self-evident obligation to refer to events which have led to a bar of publications at my expense, which one observer easily describes as'mill publications'. My obligation to oppose slandering against me is questioned and to respond to muddling reports against me, that is, defending in terrible attacks on arguments that respond to the truth. My right to support a 'practical' - in introductory words - which poisons public life, and which undermines the functioning of the democratic culture and violates the fundamental rules of the Constitution is questioned. I am, however, obliged to make purely political statements and assessments of real and absolutely true events and to make a public voice of my opinion, as provided for in Articles 60 and 61 of the Constitution. New York events now. First of all, for these events, I would ask you to look at the reports too, because the participants themselves have accepted their actions. They had disguised people and watched members of the Greek government. This is the hard core of events. These participants, of course, attempted to dress up their para-demographic tactics with references to some kind of journalism, which, as it emerged from the events of that period, neither were their own employers nor correspondents of the Greek media in the United States. So we are talking about a story that the media themselves, which I would not say was so heartfelt and friendly to our government, even today is called the 'Peruka Gate', ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. And wigs I wasn't wearing. We don't disguise. We are making political confrontation open and with our face, traditionally, ever since, even in the most difficult times that this country has passed. Recently there was a decision by the Athenians of Athens - pay attention - rejecting the appeal of the man who has resigned against two witnesses, a police officer of the convoy of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nikos Kotzias and a journalist who filed before the Greek judicial authorities that there was - hear a little - forgery and a signature of proof with the name of my partner. And of course they accept the Greek courts that there was a certain situation until the incident was settled. One last thing about the facts. None of you remembers or does not want to remember that exactly the victim of the same practice and with bodies the same person fell. Do you know who? Do you remember at all? Mrs. Anna Diamantopoulou. Before voting, then, look around with your phones online to understand what it is about and understand the size of the slip you are going to make today with your vote, if the direction you have drawn out is completed. I am therefore indebted to a text that had references, assessments and judgments to real events. And that wasn't about just the events in New York. I am appalled that I defended my personality and denounced an unacceptable practice that pollutes public life and strengthens democratic normality. If you think, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that by the legalisation you are giving today in the monitoring of ministers from the previous government, you are insulting or hitting a political opponent, I must tell you that you are mistaken, because you are opening ferry tickets to those who go miserable in, even if the situation is touching or overcoming ridiculousness. They are transporting disgusting means to try to keep elected representatives of the Greek people hostage, to guide political decisions and to level the democratic rule of law for the benefit of interests. And we should, of course, - and we tell you very much - take care of the precedent you are shaping with your vote. The majority are not stable and the majority are unscathed. We need to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u38	He's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u39	It's okay. They will be invited to decide and everyone chooses whether they want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u40	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u41	But I would say to you that the initiators and the perpetrators of these practices, when they are signalled by a part of the political system that such practices can be tolerated, will continue with them. And that's not just about our party, it's about yours. And because with some of them many of your own executives have the closest relationships, I'd say rethink it. And I do not invite you to think again because in a few months' time we will have elections and the New Democracy will lose forty parliamentary seats, not for that, but to choose the level of confrontation and polarisation you want to have on the other side. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't laugh. And in your best dreams you'll lose forty seats. That's what simple analogue says. Take care, however, of what you have previously shaped. It has nothing to do with this case, which touches both the limits of pheasyness and at this level should be dealt with by all political forces, with other situations and cases that have caused political controversy. In this context, I believe that it is neither permissible nor compatible with the established parliamentary practice to authorise the exercise of criminal prosecution against me. I did my duty. I was consistent with my obligations. I think the Member should have the freedom of opinion, let alone when battling practices and choices that undermine democracy and democratic normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you too, Mr. Pappa. Are there any colleagues who want to speak in the request for waiver of immunity? As far as I can see, no one. We shall now proceed to the vote. As I said at the outset, the vote includes only one case, that of Mr Pappas. After you register your vote you have the opportunity to check it or to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau or the relevant Members of the House. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that Members vote on the request for waiver of immunity. The system will remain open until 12.45 ́.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u43	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u44	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to waste any more time, we will continue on the health bill and when the result comes up, the Bureau will announce it. Before we begin with the list of colleagues, and because this is the first time since the budget, which I am going to go to the Chair, I would like to say this: I have heard, during the budget, the main ministers thank the staff of their ministries. I as President-in-Office - and I believe that I represent all the wings of this House - have to thank the staff of this House, because the great deal of work within Parliament on the budget has not been done either by the Ministers or by their staff. The staff of the House did it. We therefore wish them good holidays and thank them, as they are every year, for the 'plan that they put together'. [[Applause]] We're starting the list of speakers. I'm recognizing the first six colleagues so that if they're not all in the Chamber, they can be notified and come. It is Mr. Kotsos, Mr. Famelos, Mr. Mulkiotis, Mrs. Adamopoulou, Mrs. Kafantaris and Mrs. Fotio. Mr. Kotsos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Ministry of the Environment, which was in the front line in the face of the greatest health crisis our country knows, not Europe, but the planet in the last hundred years, the Ministry called and called - because the pandemic is under way - to fight the first line so that this pandemic can have the smallest, least possible consequences in society, as well as in the economy as well as in the whole of our activity. Of course, it is not the only crisis our Government has been called upon to face in these thirty months when we are at the wheel of the country. In March 2020, we had a national crisis, a refugee crisis, where our country was called upon, our Government was invited to deal with it. And he faced it with the best possible terms. The climate crisis also dramatically affected Greece, creating huge problems through extreme weather phenomena - the "Janu", fires - where the Government reacted in the best way possible, reacted effectively, quickly and stood side by all those affected and, indeed, relieved the wounds which were suffered by the impact of these extreme weather events. We are also faced, of course, with the energy crisis, which has created enormous price increases not only in electricity, not only in gas, but in the whole household, where the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is at its side again, is next to the Greeks and the Greeks. To come to the health crisis, to the pandemic, to the coronary which has been afflicting Greek society for two years, as well as Europe and the whole world. And it is true that this crisis has sparked a strong political dialogue, controversy, worked mainly on the part of the Officerial Response, which, by lacking a political account, has strived all this time to make use of the pandemic in order, in its view, to exercise an effective opposition. What I would like to point out is that the opposition is not becoming negative, it is not becoming convincing, it is not being effective, but through proposals, from a positive perspective, it can convince society. Let's see, then, at this time of our Government how it handled this issue. To begin with, obeying the saying that it is well to prevent it, our Government from the first moment gave a great battle and great attention to the information sector so that no Greek, no Greek woman will ignore exactly what is coming, what is the form of pandemic, how we will deal with it and what means we have. He did a great information campaign which was also found in the eye of the cyclone on the side of the counterpopulation, and that is why we have a committee of inquiry, but imagine that our government had not invested in the information so that all our fellow citizens, all our fellow citizens, are fully informed about the coronary. The second level is prevention so that we do not allow the health system to be overloaded but also the burden on each of our fellow citizens. Our Government has taken care in time to obtain a sufficient and necessary number of vaccines available to all our fellow citizens in order to make use of this great weapon to the pandemic, the vaccine, which the scientists say is reliable and to the fullest extent possible all of them. Let's see what the Opposition has done with this vaccine thing? At first, you remember, question whether it exists and whether it's effective. Then he talked about scrubbing. At times it was left to understand that it is not as effective as it should be. So imagine what would happen if our Government did not have the benefit of pan-European cooperation, at European level, to exploit the supply of all the vaccines that our society needs in order not to be missing from everyone. Was the commission enough to be effective and substantial? We also had to set up information corridors and cost our citizens who would like to be vaccinated so that the vaccination process could run as best as possible. And here I would like to believe that you all agree that the government has made the best effort in this direction. The vaccination chain was organised in the best possible way so that no one could be troubled and at the same time in an easy, effective and plausible way to exploit this weapon. It is true that in our society there is also a section that stands with denial, with concern, with fear of this process. What does our government do? I am convinced, first of all, that it is also trying to convince our last fellow citizen of the vaccine weapon and, in some cases, it has also introduced the compulsory health care requirement, because I do not think anyone should question the fact that people who undertake to defend the health of all those who risk their health should not be vaccinated. The opposition what he did to it? Yes, but with too many asterisks and above all without explaining how this compulsoryity will be introduced. And now we go to the treatment, where the big debate took place regarding and, if you like, the opposition focused all its opposition tactics, mainly by saying that many of our fellow citizens were found outside intensive care units. I have here the study of the WTO which shows the evidence that existed before the pandemic. The study of the WTO says there were really many shortcomings in this undeclared war...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u47	Shut up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u48	I shall end in a second, Mr President. ... to have this undeclared war without power, this enormous pressure on the health system. In fact, out of the five hundred intensive treatment units at the time, 50s were without staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that when our country faces such challenges, it is dealing with these kinds of issues, if anything, we should all stand with responsibility, with seriousness and credibility vis-à-vis society. Look into her eyes. Talk to her honestly. And it is not available for coronary use or micro-policy. I am sure that you, too, will agree that through unity, through the clear and unified political speech, we can bring the best possible result. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, you have registered thirty-five. I would ask that the time be respected so that we do not get caught at midnight last sitting before the fortnight. To prepare Mr. Famelos Socrates from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to the previous Member but also seeing enough government officials on television, we are honestly wondering if you live in our country if we live in the same country. Because in the most difficult period, at a time when society is affected by both the pandemic and the economic crisis, but also by the deadlocks that are constantly created, we have the most inadequate government we could have. A government which is neither serious nor appropriate. A government which is devastated in its contradictions, first of all, in the health aspects of this bill. It moves from wrong to wrong, manages pandemic in terms of politicians. Scientists come out and say that the committees have not met, that the latest measures have not been put forward to the government and that the government is being put forward, and that they are being put forward by ignoring both the scientific and the social conditions, because they are also unfair and incontrovertible in society. On the one hand, you declare the end of the pandemic, that we are at the last mile, that we will have two successful summers, that we have won, on the other hand, measures to strengthen the protection that proves - and we all understand it - that things are not going well. And the government doesn't want to go out and say things aren't right and it's inconsistent with itself, so every day the world gets more confused. The media and scientists are multiplying, you know, these contradictions and you are lost in the lack, in the civilisation and in self-reporting, where the Prime Minister absolves, by speaking alone in the mirror, the measures of his own. But society is struggling and confusing too because of your own policies. You must speak clearly. It is not just the problem that you are liars and you are making false news here from the Step of the House, it is that you are also immoral politicians, stating to the opposition that it must have studies on the necessity of the MDGs. As if the whole society doesn't know that intensive care units are necessary. In fact, while you have a study in your hands, which proves this and the effects on public health, because you do not support the National Health System with your choice. But you do not take responsibility, so you leave the contradictions in society and the dead, on the other hand, you come here and insult Parliament. Because this bill, Mr President, which we have today is an insult to the parliamentary procedure. There has been a debate in the Conference of Presidents about the existence of a bill - unfortunately I say - 'broom', so that no amendments can be made. And while you have two chapters of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, you also have another amendment, that is another bill from the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the others. And we find, for example, amendments to the register which are now in the material of Mr Pierrakakis in the Ministry of the Interior as an amendment, while the subject is in the Ministry of the Environment. But you are a 'alum' government. Do you understand exactly what you are doing both in Parliament and in Greek society? In fact, in this amendment - and we will say when the ministers come - you are changing laws, you are the perfect ones of the last month. For both strategic investment and a fair transition, you have amendments, laws of last month. This proves your inadequacy. I shall say a few things very quickly, Mr President, about the articles corresponding to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Article 66 shall extend the suspension of authorisations for energy storage. And you know what that means? That for two and a half years you have not made legislation to save energy that is the most necessary complement to renewable energy, to 'green' energy. So we cannot have the so-called adequacy and you are legislating. And you're glad. Are you happy with the extensions? For your inadequacy? Because I heard the suggestion. Let's go to Article 68. Article 68 is the fifth extension of the reduced, if you like, competitiveness of energy communities. In other words, you have legislated with Mr Hatzidakis that energy communities are going back politically, that is, they are not prioritised, they do not have the privileges that the law of SYRIZA had, and now you are coming for the fifth time and you are suspending regulations which, in fact, - look at it - are downgrading the rights of Western Macedonia, yours. So you're getting the laws involved, too. You have made such a tough and inefficient arrangement that I doubt if you will be able to implement it. In Article 69 you are talking about the SYRIZA, the Public Benefit Services included in the accounts and you hide that your Government, despite the fact that the connections between the islands and the SYRIZA policy have gone ahead, does not alleviate consumers from the burdens of the SYRIZA, i.e. they are still consumed and accounted for by a factor that should now have been reduced by the SYRIZA policy. And you don't do that while the works are moving on. So you're getting the bills from elsewhere, too. In Article 70 you settle arbitrary and even erase fines. Why? We can't figure it out. Why erase fines? In Article 71 another excellence. Look, a year ago Mr. Mitsotakis did not come out after the "Medea" and said: "Would we legislate to solve the problems of consultation of the services?" It comes a year later and says that if he does not deliver his forest service, the TEDEN can proceed to his work. A year to get that set out! And what does the Scientific Agency say? The Scientific Service of Parliament says that it is a problem to regulate that you do not clarify the criteria with which the forestry services are consulted. Be careful, you did a year to legislate something Mr. Mitsotakis said after "Medea" and that is still not complete. Let's go down. Article 72, green end. What's the green ending? The green end is the delight that the New Democracy Government has put to all consumers, to all the users of cars, truck buses, tractors, because you bankrupt the RES account. And now you're making less transparent management of the resource, because you didn't even manage your own charm. Let's go to article 73. Prolong - because you are inadequate - and the areas of organised aquaculture development. There we do not know what is behind the burden of areas, but even the exception from the law of arbitrary, confiscated, leasing, EBRD and the areas of civil protection that we agree on. In arrangements for the Theatre, notice, a good arrangement has a problem with the Scientific Service of the Parliament. And we're going to the last, Mr. President. Contracts awarded for the protection of forests. At the request of the emergency you come to exclude from the tendering procedures the forest-prevention works. This is a serious violation of the rules and of transparency, and you are doing so because you are aiming to smash public money with the boulder. Legislative loopholes, exceptions and assignments. And - carefully - Article 146 introduces a major opaque arrangement, which says that you are ex post legalising the contracts for the award of projects made by Civil Protection, Mr Hardalias and the Secretary-General, in order to probably clean up the forests before the fires, which were burned afterwards. Although we have tabled a three-fold question and an ACP question, which I am presenting here today, which we are calling for these contracts to be submitted because more than 10 million have been allocated in a non-transparent manner. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And even though the Scientific Office raises questions, you come today and you extend this arrangement and you legalise contracts in retrospect. So you open a window to Article 76 and to 146 you legalize contracts. At the same time, I have to say that in Rule 77 with an unprecedented lack of care the Government comes seven days before the end of the disposable plastics and you change the products in which the disposable plastics ends, you take the label off the top of where the consumer information is - you are told by the Scientific Service of Parliament that it is wrong to label the items - and you change the products to which the regulation refers by telling us a year and a half ago that you are legislating on plastics - Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech - to make the market ready and you change it seven days before it is implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I could say a great deal more, such as, for example, that you are once again doing the Technical Chamber for the award of projects and studies, even for urban projects, but I shall end with a very small reference to the amendment. In the amendment that has been tabled by the RIS, there is a regulation for the Energy Transfer Fund, namely the grant of accounts. I'll tell you what doesn't have until now, because I have to close fast. Firstly, there is no regulation and control of the market, so there is shameful speculation. Secondly, you do not make bilateral forward-looking contracts so that there is stability and security in the energy market. Thirdly, you have nothing for professionals, for businesses, for producers, for TATs and for the JHA. For the water you have nothing. You have nothing to say because since January the European Union has been cutting this horizontal subsidy and you have no solution for consumers, while in January and February the accounts will be over three times more. We have submitted to you an account that 56 euros have already had a clause of EUR 161 and that will increase in January and February, and the European Union has cut the horizontal subsidy. You also have nothing on excise duty, which costs 30% of the cost of oil. You have nothing to do with vulnerable and rhetoric. You have nothing to do with the falsification of the OHIM to farmers and with incredible clandestineness the Prime Minister is coming out and announces measures. The Minister for Energy on Saturday night described us as not all farmers, but it seems only those who are in PPC. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Ministers, you are an inappropriate and dangerous government for this reason, and it is now time that the problem you are creating in Greek society cannot be tolerated. That is why the time has come to submit the request for elections, because this government is dangerous both for health and for the economy. Happy holidays for those who don't talk again. Health, above all, no matter how much your government protects it. It will be protected by society's health and public policy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u51	Mr Mulkiotis has the floor. Immediately afterwards, and for five minutes I will give Mr Vorides the floor to defend his amendment and we will continue with Mrs Adamopoulou, Mrs Kafantaris and Mrs Fotio. Here you go, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[A document from the MP Arcadia of the Change Movement and I Vice-President of the Parliament, Odyssea Konstantinopoulos, concerning a letter of letter, pursuant to Rule 70a of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, concerning the request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Nikolaos Papapas, which reads as follows:]] [[To enter page 134]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again the government brings a bill without beginning, middle and last but not least, a string of unrelated and fragmentary arrangements with a strong scent of arrangements and arrangements. On its own bill, the new uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen, overthrows everything. The plating of the ‘Omicon’ mutation leaves no doubt. The pandemic looks like a door we've been through and no one knows what's going on over there. Unfortunately, however, the government's ideas that prove themselves and manifest themselves in this bill do not allow it to be generously strengthened in hospitals and primary care. It is the same ideals that do not allow it to escape its objective, to change the labour market towards absolute flexibility, to reduce pay, to weaken collective bargaining and to completely deregulation. They are the ideals that are pushing her to respond to the problems faced by workers in the only oil mining and exploitation operation at the "KAVAL OIL", precollected by the forces of MATs that entered the factory yesterday and had ruled out 50 employees in a tower, while a police rod hit a transformer, resulting in an explosion. Explosion. And the government is silent! This is the government's choice with regard to the agricultural sector in a blurred landscape. He's planning and wants the blurred scenery. It is a vulnerable landscape for energy that eliminates the income of workers and farmers. It is a vulnerability to compensate for compensation, subsidies and the delay in the receipt of compensation for frosts. Foul landscape in the growth of feed, fertilisers and pesticides. There is no message from the Prime Minister of the previous day about the responses. It's not even a drop in the ocean. Ask the farmers to tell you. The farmers will not be sowing this year, with the worst results ever. They won't sow! Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, the bad legalization continues with the performances of the "rave-exit" to the ECA. At a time when pension outstandings continue and are increasing, a hundred and fifty-two thousand outstanding pensions in September 2021. The ambitious 'ATLAS' system before it begins, unfortunately it has stopped. With Articles 95 and 96, the Minister is changing the establishment plan, and has announced a new establishment plan in a subsequent bill, which will be submitted in January 2022 and which has already been approved by the previous Ministerial Council. It is unacceptable that the OAED establishment plan should be extended, because it is an extension that has been constantly in place for three years. We have three years of extension, but without the OAED being strengthened. It is an extension that is being made, while the Ministry - you heard - recently changed selectively some of the current OAED organograms. The truth is that the Government's ideas are constantly pushing it into the adoption of social automation in order to transfer its responsibilities for the failure to manage outstanding pensions to employees. And here I must confess that Mr Hatzidakis is Mr Mitsotakis' best student. As the Prime Minister, remember, attempted to turn society against retired people when they asked him for the cut gifts of 2015 - 2016 that the S.H.E. He has condemned them, so Hatzidakis once again wishes to prosecute himself "the guardian of the retired". In what sense? In the sense that the employees of the agency are to blame for not leaving the pensions and not for their own system and for the government's uncertainty in issuing the pensions. So this is tormenting the citizens and not the workers who want to take leave of the holidays. That's a sin! That is why the public call through channels with which the Minister of Labour urges candidate pensioners to - you have also heard - to individuals and accountants and not to the public, not to the services of the FBI! That's the trust he has! This is Minister Hatzidakis. That's the kind of thing he puts on. The Minister also ignores the fact that workers in the private and public sectors, apart from having obligations, also have rights. It is another thing, very different, to ask workers to put 'platform' and let them take less leave at holidays and another thing to say 'you will not get licenses at holidays'. Have you ever heard of that before? Unfortunately, this is called a working jungle, but this is probably the vision of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, the current health conditions now force the strengthening of the national health system. The constant revolts of the government undermine citizens' confidence in the new health protection measures, putting society at risk. This is not a matter of party competitions or of ideological controversy. It is now a matter of national importance and this must be understood by everyone, a matter of national, not major, major importance. He doesn't have any more. Without an adequate health system capable of providing reliable services to all citizens, nothing is going to go well. Mr Poulas, our rapporteur, has said so clearly, said so in detail, he has said so with full reason, with full documentation and has to listen to the government, which unfortunately does not listen to it. The health of the Greek people will remain precarious given the undermining of any opportunity to develop the Greek economy. The health of the Greek people will be undermined in this way, and that is why we clearly need a direct plan and measures that will also be implemented. And we repeat the self-evident thing. The protection of human life exceeds any political cost which, for you and the government, the major is unfortunately not health, but you are dealing with the major issue of political costs. Finally, take care, ladies and gentlemen, of a strong and regenerated national health system and place emphasis on primary care and prevention. Finally understand that Greece needs a structured progressive policy to get into the orbit of a strong social state. Finally, we call on you, Minister, to adopt, if you do not adopt, at least for the first time in the history of this House's period of time on the request for an amendment to counter-population. For the first time, to say that you accept or do not accept the amendments, the amendment which we are now tabling today. What's this about? Firstly, it concerns the practical recognition of the work and the social provision of staff of the National Health System and the national social care system. Fourteen times has been filed. Silence on the other side. Let's answer once. Dare and answer. Take the courage and take the political responsibility. Answer that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, to place workers on the list of heavy and unhealthy professions. Thirdly, the inclusion of COVID-19 in the national list of occupational diseases. Fourthly, for the award of a disability and death pension for COVID-19 disease. Fifth, for the self-taxation of medical staff of the National Health System and finally, for the taxation of the retroactives of the eleventh month 2015 - 2016, under the provisions of Article 60(4) of Law 4172/2013. Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish you all a happy holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from my fellow Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas. A total of 277 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. They voted 101 MPs against the lifting of immunity. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue on the bill, and Mrs Adamopoulou Angeliki from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking today about a draft law by the Ministry of Health in the light of recent investigations, which are talking about the exceptional risk of the "Omicon" mutation, a mutation that will pierce even the wall of immunity supposedly offered by vaccination and disease. This is an imminent real threat to public health. Even those who had become sick of a coronary before will be stuck, as the risk of recontamination is four and a half times greater than that of the Delta mutation. Nevertheless, this data seems to be ignored or you do not want to take it into account. Let's get the articles. In Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5, we see that you are trying to cover the organic gaps with clippings. In particular, do you see that these gaps will be covered either by extensions of subsidiary contracts or by transfers of personnel, particularly to hospitals in the region, with which you are actually moving? Cover any gaps per quarter in Greece. Cuvets for the permanentisation of ancillary personnel do not do so as to strengthen and blood the National Health System with an experienced staff. And the announcements you've made about the recruitment of four thousand nurses, you don't even implement them. And if we take this into account and the gaps of the seven thousand unvaccinated health, which have been suspended by a contract of employment, we see that you are trying, as we have said, with clippings, with a very rough and unprecedented design, to cover all these organic gaps and in any case the effectiveness of movements and extensions will be minimal. What else do you anticipate? In Article 7 you provide that intensive care units or increased care units will be provided by transferring qualified doctors who are still in training. In other words, you are demanding qualified people who are, as I have said, at a stage of training and who do not have the necessary expertise or the required specialisation to serve high-demand units in extremely dangerous conditions, in extremely critical conditions, without organising a strong network of infrastructures with experienced staff, particularly in hospitals in the region suffering from silviculture, sub-funding and from obsolete structures. So where you need to focus is the expertise of intensification. You should send the thousands of three hundred ICUs, which you say exist at the moment, for which no data have been submitted either in the Minutes or in the minutes, or which have been published even though we have invited you to do so. Only the four hundred of them are intensified by intensifiers, and so they are able to function. The rest, if any, are not even staffed. In Articles 7, 8, 9 reveals government indifference, I would say almost criminal negligence in relation to strengthening primary health care. And here, instead of organising a network of locally competent structures, so that there is a doctor of the EEAS and intensively monitor the incidents, you have left primary health care weakened, resulting, always according to the investigations and the evidence, the findings there are, many deaths, - why? - because there was no premeditated care. People died helpless in their homes because they had no doctor to monitor them intensively or were referred to the hospital at the last minute, in the last stage before the intubation. Because I happen to have my own person familiar, who precisely because of this incomplete premeditated care delayed his reference to the hospital, one day before the intubation the coronary was in opposition and the arrest developed into cerebral oedema. Why? Because you leave people helpless in the various regions. Article 29 provides for the compensation of private clinics and, in fact, unrelated and unjustified of those who have committed and insisted on meeting the needs and gaps. Here we see that you are giving privileges to those who have not even been placed on the front line of fire. You give them irresponsible and duty-free compensation. Do you provide such privileges for the on-site papers of the ESS doctors? Are you bringing the wages and gifts back to the pre-2012 levels? No, of course not. You have left them there without wage incentives to literally faint from fatigue. Nordic provision is Article 42, which provides that each subcommittee of health experts shall submit their findings directly to the Secretary-General of public health. And the question is: What are you trying to do? Close any bulkheads in the information leak? What are you afraid of and go limiting any information? Two years, then, we see that you have not learned from your mistakes. You came out after the first lockdown, as fanatical fans of a football team who celebrate and think the race ended in the first quarter, and you said you won the war. When a second, a third, a fourth wave of pandemic with so many dead, has been obsessed with meeting the constant and constant needs of the National Health System and is applying a tactic of the spoiled patch, which is ripped off by the slightest pressure on the National Health System. You have, of course, forgotten the limits of the cradle with the study Tsiodra-Lytra, where you set up a theater of the irrationality that Beckett and Jonesko would envy, because the Prime Minister came out and said that he did not know, he had not delivered himself to the Maximos Mansion, but this study had been delivered to the government by differentiating himself from the government. This is not the attitude of a Prime Minister when we have more than double deaths worldwide in the first ten years of the mortality index and pan-Europeanly in the first seven countries in the mortality index. And, in any case, when the Prime Minister himself stated that "with all honesty three times a week, Mr Chiodras presents to me all the data", can he say that he was ignorant? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. In all this, therefore, the multi-fronted crisis both in the field of health, society and the economy, you are adding the deep institutional and effective crisis of your inability. We have tabled too many proposals. Even if you did not know either the Maximos Mansion or the Government for this study, one hundred and fifty-seven Members of the New Democracy are not visiting the hospitals, are you not in contact with reality? So many sanitaries go out to the panels and report the gaps. We have tabled proposals, we have submitted parliamentary control, questions. You didn't know? So we invite you, even right now, to come together, to do what is right, for human lives are at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u56	Mrs Kafantaris Harulas will now speak from SYRIZA, then Mrs Theano Fotou and then Mr Voridis will speak for five minutes on the amendment, and then the parliamentary representative from Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, has asked for the floor. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is on the agenda. He is, first of all, in Greek society and secondly in plenary because he did not reply to the debate on the budget on the challenges and the questions clearly raised by Alexis Tsipras in connection with the study that has become a lot of noise, the Tsiodra-Lytra study on the mortality in ICUs. I will not repeat what it involves. We know that. In fact, we are seeing, on a broad scale, a cross-response of responsibilities and, indeed, who took the study, that the Ministry was informed, that we are looking to find rival victims who took it and did not inform them, etc. But all this cannot characterize a political man, much more than the Prime Minister of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government failed to manage the pandemic. And I do not say that in opposition, the figures themselves show that from the country's position on deaths at pan-European level, but from the very large number of deaths. But, within the pandemic, you really have it - and it was expressed by the Prime Minister in the summer - in the private health sector and how you will protect him and serve him. Indeed, there are provisions in this draft law that we are discussing. In any other European country, in any country of the European Union, if the Prime Minister was lying in this House on such a serious issue, as I mentioned before, which concerns human lives, many human lives, whether he would have been publicly apologizing or resigned. We know what has happened in Europe. We know what happened in Austria, which even resigned Chancellor. What's going on in our country? All of this shows a great democratic deficit, which is now in place in our country: ongoing appeals, announcements, lack of planning. But what is the result of all this, unfortunately in the midst of a pandemic? The lack of confidence, the lack of confidence among the Greek people, the citizens, and that, if you like, also appeared in the course of vaccination. Your health and pandemic policy has unfortunately achieved this. Even what we heard until Saturday, Sunday, Monday for the nights tests at the revelation, at the celebrations and others - the Government representative came out and announced - you got them back. You are also bringing in a bill that we are discussing today, which I would not say is a bad piece of legislation, a'sweep' bill, as we say. I'd say it's a deliberate legalization, and I really think it's exactly what it is. Only extensions. Nothing new. No measures for the management of the pandemic, really! For example, I will mention the first and the main, the blow that, in fact, is done to our insecure fellow citizens with the inability to prescribe from private doctors. Rebuild this leading political act of SYRIZA for months, access to the health of our two million fellow citizens. Gradually remove the way or how to implement. Of course, our rapporteur has said a lot about the ITHs. You bring many articles concerning various ministries. How many times have we voted last year with an amendment, for example, to extend the work of contractual cleaning workers to the Greek Police? You said you'd solve it, we'd get hired. Nothing! Mr. Petsas, after the "Medea" and the great disaster last year in February, was committed to a bill in September to resolve issues of involvement and mutual complementation and cooperation between institutions and ministries. Nothing! Bring here an article on the TEN and the possibility of cutting trees after natural disasters and others. For the Theatre and for the concession to the municipality, I will say that there is, of course, a vague framework for implementing commitments on their part. I shall also refer in particular to the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. You created a Ministry-cover for communication reasons, to cover your inadequacy in the summer with the management of forest fires, with a law that does not work, and selectively you use some of the articles in the beam. For the Ministry, we had asked a timely question, but we didn't get any answers. This is a ministry, first of all, without organograms, five or six months from its creation. Repeat, we didn't get any answers. We have asked questions about your policy that was conducted during an anti-nuclear period for eighteen regions of the country, CEECs and direct awards, specifically questions about studies based on these awards. We have asked for contracts, signed agreements, and all that and answers, of course, have not been received. So you are coming today and you are bringing arrangements, of which Article 146 - which is very important - the explanatory statement says that this is an attempt to resolve budgetary malfunctions of an earlier year, which have led to the failure to enact, clear and pay a large number of expenditure by the relevant bodies of the Climate Crisis Ministry. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament refers to this and raises specific objections, saying that the regulatory authority of the joint legislature falls under the scope of the provisions on money laundering, but since the relevant regulations are not such and of such an extent that the Court of Auditors' powers of control are effectively abolished and therefore the possibility of searching through an appropriate amount of money spent illegally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, while they have not been received by the Ministry of Climate Crisis and its relevant departments, in order to pay the contractors in the areas where deforestation, cleaning and all this has taken place, you are also coming back to legalise any costs and what has been done in anti-nuclear with direct assignments. These are very serious issues. Of course, because time is running out, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u58	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u59	...I would like to say - and thank you, Mr President, for half a minute - that we have said so in the tourism bill, we see it everywhere - you are a government of direct assignments in all areas. The multi-brush plan, which you bring today, really shows you're in a hurry. It shows a stress, a stress that Mr. Mitsotakis showed on Saturday here in the parliament. You see that society is displeased with your policies gradually. It really seems that you are not persuading the world, much more on the crucial issue of pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u60	Come on, Mrs. Kafantari, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u61	Of course, the announcement and request of Alexis Tsipras for elections, which is beginning to respond to society, also seems to be scaring you. That's why you legislate that way. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u62	The first six is closed with Mrs. Theano Fotio from SYRIZA. Immediately after five minutes, Mr Vorides will be placed on his amendment. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's'sweep' bill was tabled one day before the budget of 2022 was adopted, namely last Friday, very close. And then the New Democracy MPs knew it. In other words, you have consciously voted for a budget, which is inappropriate and false, because it was based, in the admission and statement of Mr. Psulakakis, on the fact that the pandemic ends in 2021. Today, with thirty-seven articles, you are telling us - and you will vote and everything - that the end of the pandemic is being shifted for 31 March. However, this new expiry date you are voting on again gives the wrong signal to society and workers. It's outside of European and domestic reality. Both international and Greek scientific bodies warn that continuous mutations extend the duration of the pandemic, test health systems and require immediate reinforcement of the country's health systems and horizontal measures during the holiday season. None of this is done with this bill. On the contrary, the Minister for Health assures us that we are in a recession in the fourth epidemiological wave - apart from the epidemic Prime Minister, we have also acquired an epidemiological minister - and no additional measures need to be taken to protect public health. With twenty thousand dead, twice as death from the European average per million inhabitants, with the ESS and its people in a permanent collapse, Prime Minister and Minister took over the role of scientists, not to strengthen the public health system, which is all they all know is saving lives. That's why they disappeared the Chiodra-Lytra investigation. They do not see the workers who are crushing and not strengthening them all. Because, for the first time in two years, you have voted for a minimum allowance for the staff who have been fighting this last day in order to curb COVID in hospitals and public health structures. However, you did not include - except for example - the workers in the public and municipal welfare structures and social protection structures, such as 'Help at Home' and 'Help at Home'. They are those who were vaccinated, you saw them and you see them daily in the front line of the race. Please, we tell you to include them at the last minute. Do you also want to tell us in Article 59 you include the thirteen cleaners of the Ministry of Finance or do you have a vendetta? This criminal attitude of the government has already cost us eight thousand dead who could have been saved. It's your ideology and the interests of the clerks who have led us to this national tragedy. That's why we're asking for elections now to leave. To save human lives, to stop a progressive government the rapid poverty of the Greek people from the crisis of accuracy and the energy crisis. The bill of the hundred and fifty articles and the morning fifty lack the urgent arrangements for the recovery of energy poverty, which threatens one in three households. At EUROSTAT we are in the third worst position in this area in Europe. It is a worrying fact, over the last week, that our twelve fellow citizens have died in their homes from fires. Now vote at least, even today, on the SYRIZA amendment - Progressive Alliance, on the linking of cut-offs, debt regulation, for 2022, and on the provision of free 300 KWh per household, which we have repeatedly tabled and rejected, as well as on the reduction of the excise duty on fuel and the increase in the minimum wage to EUR 800. It is critical that the hours, the accuracy begs all the doors, but it is, above all, the social majority and the middle classes, who see the family budget being exhausted in the second and third weeks of each month. At the last minute you have accepted our amendment to extend free treatment of medicines and treatments to former beneficiaries of the CSR until the end of 2022. Good. Thirdly, in the remaining provisions of the bill you are amending laws that have been passed by you in the last six months. That's because you're excellent, executive, etc.Huh? But how do you do it? That's the nicest. By giving the Ministers the right to suspend or apply them arbitrarily for certain categories of citizens. This is the epitome of the interlocutory and customer relations that we received in 2015! So back to the glorious 2012 - 2015 that you ruled. For example, Article 39. This amends a law that you passed sixteen days ago. It amends it so that it does not apply directly or at least until the elections - that you are counting on doing, calling them at the end of March - because you know the indignation and outrage you have raised. Instead of saying, if you'll excuse us, we're wrong, we're not applying him, you've got the House ordering the Minister to regulate him whenever he wants. For sixteen days ago, despite complaints all Overseas, you abolished an order of SYRIZA's emblematic n.4368/2016, which allowed uninsured and vulnerable groups to prescribe, as well as the insured, exams, medications and treatments to private doctors. You abolished it, considering the insecure unreliable and obliging them to go to public health structures, which are excluded from COVID. You have thus condemned, 16 days ago, the disabled, but also the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the free traders, who have not regulated their insurance contributions, not only their medicines and treatments, but also their diagnosiss, to go to CEPOL. And today, instead of abolishing and reintroducing the law of SYRIZA, you give this right to "dill" the Minister. Fourth and last. Under the pretext of pandemic, you are passing prolongations irrelevant to her. For example, the extension for another six months of the obligation on primary nurseries to comply with the new regulation on fire safety and accessibility, a new, that is, '17, which we did. Then, on SYRIZA, we gave an extension of compliance, but also of 95 million to the municipalities to implement it. You froze them when you were elected. Then we gave this extension until 19. Listen. It's a matter of life and death, for infants and infants. Be careful, because what you do, confuse children’s protection, can have a terrible effect, through this device. I invite you to withdraw it. We are obviously voting against the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Makis Voridis, will now take the floor for five minutes to present his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very briefly, they are included in a chapter in the 'rainistic' bill, the 'rainist' bill, some provisions of the Ministry of the Interior, to which my colleague, Mr Petsas, will refer, then. Let me just confine myself to three provisions, which are partly included in the corpus of the draft legislation on the subject and partly in the amendment tabled. The first provision, which is in the amendment, relates to the extension of the COVID contracts for workers with fixed-term contracts, to address the needs of COVID. They're at grade I and grade II and we're extending these contracts until March 31, 2022. We have given an extension - I gave it last time - and I said it would be the last extension. Obviously, the development of the pandemic does not allow us to stop the contracts now. However, I would once again like to point out that these are fixed-term contracts, they fall under the provisions of the President-in-Office's decree and the provisions of the directive in question. We are already talking about the provision that these conventions cannot exceed twenty-four months, and I would also like to stress once again, because I can hear it in some respects, that these conventions serve to meet the needs of COVID. They do not cover standing and constant needs, they are for the treatment of COVID. I stress that - well - some trade unionists, on the part of the workers, say what they say, I understand their point of view, which is, in any case, a trade union perspective - because these cannot be heard by administrative bodies, because if the administrative bodies claim that these workers cover permanent and permanent needs, we have avoided the legislative framework. These workers have not been recruited for this reason and therefore expose themselves to imputations because they have violated the purpose of recruitment and the order. So I want to be clear in the context in which we operate. It is therefore an extension for three months and I hope - although as pandemics are evolving, that is what one must always say with a reservation - that this will be the last. And I come to the extension for infants, to which Mrs Fotou referred. The truth is that you correctly identify the criticality of the matter. That's the truth. This extension is given on the grounds of absolute necessity, because we are in the middle of a year and obviously the non-expansion would lead to a huge issue of stations that already have babies. Therefore, if we were to apply the provisions tomorrow, they would probably have to be closed down. So the extension of this six-month period is not without them. However, we have reached agreement with my colleague Mr Petsa that this is a matter of absolute priority for us. I would also like to stress here that there will be no extension of the one we are giving. On 30 July local government agencies should either have complied with and therefore comply with the provisions of the legislation or cease operating these nurseries. One of the two. So it's a semester and it has to be done, because we're in the middle of a year. Otherwise, we'd create a very big upheaval in parents. That's what we think. We don't think of local government agencies. We're thinking about parents! So that is something that absolutely needs to be done. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall end in ten seconds. We are also giving another extension for a quarter. I think we are approaching and we are quite close to giving a definitive solution to a matter that has been going on for ten years in the area of municipal building services. We have already gone far enough, and I think that the way in which we are going to present you with the solution to this long-term issue is ripe. That is why we are asking Parliament to approve another three-month extension of the regime now in existence to complete our proposal and to present it to you in the next quarter. Thank you very much, Mr President. My surpass was...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u66	I knew something and I put five instead of three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u67	Yeah, but we're talking forty-two seconds. Now you're giving me forty-two seconds, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u68	Since Mr Papadopoulos is here, he will speak from his position for three minutes to develop his amendment. Then he will take the floor, because he has been asked by the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis. After Mr. Gregoriadis, I will give Mr. Petsa the floor for some articles that are inside the bill and continue with the list. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to Amendment No 1183 and to Amendment No 179. It is an amendment that has four articles concerning Antipalea, the way we regulate the body in Antipalea, to become the first green island in the country. I am referring only to the transport sector and to transport, such as the purpose and service provider on order at the border of the island of Astypaleas alone, the responsibilities created by the body on request and the rules of operation of the provider, which will, of course, be approved by the Ministry of Interior and the participation of passenger transport on request. These are amendments which quickly move on to the green island of Astypalea, which seems to be something special and something unique. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention. I wish good holidays and merry Christmas to all of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u70	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u71	I'm going slowly, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week, last Wednesday, if I remember well, at the Conference of Presidents, Mr Tasoulas, the President of our Parliament told us that on 22nd of the month, in other words today, we will have a bill. We also wondered why that kind of predicament. On the 22nd of the month bill, 20 of the month another bill, why this kind of prestige? Why? "They've worn milk," according to commonly called? That's what we told the President. And he told us that you guys, don't you understand? We have pandemic, we have so many dead a day. So don't wonder. This is done for reasons of immediate national need, for urgent reasons. So I thought at once: "Government has finally reached the occasion, it has taken account of its responsibility and what it has not done to date, and it has finally decided, even late, Mr President, to impose all the meths of the monastic private units, the well-known parasitic oligarchs, not to say their names, friends. In front of the general popular outcry, I thought it was time to check. For once, Mr President! My hopes were fruits, I was in a personal utopia of my own. Of course, the first forty-four articles of the draft law we are discussing today are indeed the Ministry of Health. And what about these first forty-four articles, ladies and gentlemen? Repeat with outrageous monotony a word: extension, extension, extension, extension, extension, extension! All these extensions were extended to legislative acts brought here by the Government "Metsotakis Kyriakos S.A." at the beginning of the pandemic two years ago, telling us that I am bringing these PPPs, the legislative acts, so that I can go with them until I can shield the National Health System to prevent the pandemic so that we don't have too many dead. As we know, very well, those here attending Jerusalem, none of that, nothing happened. No permanent reinforcement of our public health system has been carried out, no permanent doctors have been recruited, rather than the creation of few real real ICUs and not ICUs, which are common beds that are present, pretend the ICUs and die people. You know who I mean! What the Prime Minister did not know in the debate he provoked two weeks ago about whether they have a difference in mortality. Mr. Kapravelos had said it in public, the director of the most battled unit in Thessaloniki, "Papanikolaou", which has all the ICUs, knew it, Mr. Chiodras since May, in fact we all knew it, but Mr. Mitsotakis did not know about it. That's exactly the PPAs you're prolonging. And what are you doing with this, since you haven't taken any doctors and since you've promoted all the rest of the morbidity, that is cancers, cardiovasculars, and what society has in your parasitic friends who refuse to oversee their ICUs with the non-injurious? You pay them, in other words, badly to do their basic duty. You don't take the ITHs and they need them and they pay them, but you give them too much customers, which they wouldn't have had if the National Health System could deal with those who have to be able to deal with. So, it's all good, it's all perfect! You're canalizing them, sending them over there and paying for the private sector. With one stone seven, seventeen, twenty-seven, four hundred eighty-seven birds? Only you know how many birds you can get for the parasitic oligarchy! The conclusion is one and it's undeniable, Mr. Pecha. You're the only Minister, and that's why I'm addressing you. Yes, I'm worried when I see you. I hope you haven't brought any new lists to pass it through the House with an amendment! I guess not, huh? Enough has been paid for the channels that tell us honestly and honestly! So one is the truth that cannot be called into question. After twenty thousand deaths, after all this disgrace that emerges, after the fact - as the journalist asked the Prime Minister and swallowed his language - that we are the uraguans of the European Union's civilised countries in deaths - we are not the first, we are the pigs in effectiveness, in dealing with possible deaths - and after all one is the undeniable fact, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government 'Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.' is facing this situation two years later today, at the end of 2021, beginning 2022, with extensions of legislative acts that it had brought in two years ago. Hot congratulations on that! On the other hand, so that you do not cry out for the opposition and not to say that the opposition closes the eye and various such nonsense, Mera25 asks you from the previous March - it has also taken legislative initiatives, that is to say, we consistently submit amendments - systematically public pan-Hellenic network completely free tests, mass tests, millions of tests and direct reinforcement of the National Health System with at least ten thousand doctors. I would remind you that the previous Prime Minister, Mr Antonis Samaras, said in 2012 that the system needs eighteen thousand - his government's establishment plan said that - to survive. We say now, as people die on the side of the road like a horse or a dog sorry for the expression, I use it on purpose, to hire ten thousand, not the eighteen thousand Samaras wanted ten years ago. You won't. So we've been asking for the immediate requisition for a year of the private sector - your friends who will never take care of them - and, of course, for free pre-vaccination control to everyone so that they don't be afraid, for the doctor to tell them: 'I've seen your case and you can be vaccinated. You have no danger, i.e. having allergy or thrombosis." The "Metsotakis S.A." that listens to all this, has consciously chosen not to strengthen the ESS, as we all know that it intends to privatise it and strengthened it is not so easily privatized. Furthermore, Mr President, there is also an additional reason for private clinical authorities, friends and orders from our - I'm sorry to tell you - of your own government. Now listen to what the menu has in other than the total of sixty - and more - provisions of the bill. Only forty-four were the articles that Mr Tassoulas invoked that this is why it is so urgent. Most of the remaining hundred two are photographic gifts to your parasitic little friends again. I have three examples that you will not get out of here. The first - which, by the way, is screaming, that is to say it is calling us all in here that we represent the MPs - is the gift of EUR 262 whole warm million to the concessionaires operating the Olympian road. Do you know what scandal, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know what the scandal is, Mr President? These owners, the concessionaires, if I'm not mistaken, are a German company assisted by the famous Mr. Bobola. You know Mr. Bobola. Whatever stone you can pick up on theft, Mr. Bobolas or a member of his family will be underneath. Personally, he owes me from the "Nurse" some 30,000 euros from a ring that I made in 2014, the "Currency". I've won all the trials, and it's done. He has made a bankrupt "monitor" in one of the eighteen companies in his group, Mr. Bobolas, and he states "Uk if they are received than they have"! Article 99, immortal, battalion of capitalists in this country! Listen, Mr President, now is the good news. The fines are: We are talking about the 262 hot millions to the concessionaires operating on the Olympian road. This is Article 82 of this bill. We're talking about 262 million! What does the "Olympia Street" have just learned that it will grab these 262 million of the stallion of the Greek people? It increases the toll! It's not amazing! Rejoice to your Prime Minister! It increases - today I read it - from EUR 0.10 to EUR 0.20 all along, depending on what vehicle you have. That's dismantling! You give him the back and he "Ah, I'll grab the jaws! I'll grab the fingernails too! I will be snatched from everywhere!" So that's the first photo present. Do you want to hear the second photo present? The second photographic gift - surely because the tango wants two, also wanted SYRIZA to have prepared the ground - is of course the gift to further downgrade the protection of the yachts, the gyalitis zone. Why am I saying, 'Does she want two'? What did the wonderful SYRIZA do? In 2019, with L.4607 passed by SYRIZA, SYRIZA had legitimised everything that had happened until then on our beaches by 2011. He said, "until 2011, all right, I legalize them, but not far enough." What are you guys doing? Congratulations! Really, it's amazing how you thought about it! With the regulation that you, ladies and gentlemen, are introducing today - and no one is ashamed of what I see - the authorisation to grant use is extended if the above illegal projects are subject to an extension and improvements that are functionally linked and which are an organic whole of them, irrespective of their timing. In other words, if someone had put an extra bar not in the sand but in the sea, and it had entered this, you now legalize it, if it proves that somehow it is linked to the "monoditsa" which also gave us pleasure on the beach all of us. It also states: ‘Subject to the adoption for the whole project of an environmental approval decision’. And be careful - most importantly - all of this, regardless of the date of construction of the arbitrary, the date of construction of the violation of the public interest, that is, forever! Forever, until forever! Whenever, until forever, Mr President! And, of course, the third nice gift, which is also amazing, photographic, is in Article 73(b) of Chapter IV, for imposing applications, Mr President, for arbitrary constructions in immovable property in certain cases. Not to tell you the scriptures and articles. It provides for suspension of sanctions. The time limits shall be extended from their expiry for one year. We were all happy, because, you know, we thought it was for various arbitrary buildings of the Greek people that all governments were giving up, and the poor Greeks voted for them every time! However, as soon as one returns to the other page, it appears that the arrangement concerns, in particular, property acquired by means of forced auctions. What's that? They're the predators. Don't tell you again which family who is a member of the capital of the predator funds of the project "HRAKLIS"! We all know her in here, don't we? Don't be fooled! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the predators, when they grab the house of my poor fellow citizen, must be clean, so that no state is chasing him for any arbitrary action! What arbitrary ends up with an auction at 4% of the value of the property with only no right to claim it - the one you stole it from it, that is, because it is not his fault for your memorials that you cut his salary in half and cannot pay his loans - when he goes to the predator funds, automatically bring what I read to you right now so that they have no problem, absolutely no problem. Look at how you dismantle the whole story now. A few months ago, you, Mitsotakis S.A., ENERGEAN OIL, an American multinational, which I think is also assisted by Mr. Bobola or GEK TERNA - I don't know, I have lost it - you gave 100 million euros, Mr. President, in the pretext of strengthening viability... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Did you say anything to me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u72	No, Mr. Gregoryde.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u73	I have to tell you that because I'm still gonna need about five minutes, if I have to - I'm not gonna talk anyway - let me use my dentistry, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u74	Now, be careful, you have established this on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u75	Not me, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u76	I did not say 'you'. I said 'on your own, colleagues', in the first plural. It is not summed up on the basis of the Protology and Secondary Regulations. In three minutes, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u77	I will not be finished, Mr President, because I will be the first Member of Parliament to be finished in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u78	But what can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u79	I have not seen any parliamentarians speak under eighteen. You want me to talk 15? I think it's unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u80	Who has spoken eighteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u81	Everybody! I am two and a half years of a Parliamentary representative and I should be the only one who keeps the time. We've lost a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u82	With me in the Chair, no parliamentarian has spoken for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u83	Then, Mr President, you will have to discuss with the President of the Greek Parliament if you are the only President who observes the Rules of Procedure, see what we will do with the other five Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u84	Now, leave to the level...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u85	I will not leave it, Mr President. My rights, unfortunately, will be claimed to the end. Let me say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Gregoryde, you don't deserve it. If you are entitled to it, you are finished and you are entitled to another six.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u87	Mr. President, you fucked me. I say to you that there is a well-established situation in this Parliament. This well-established situation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u88	I do not accept it as President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u89	When inhibited for a...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u90	So don't waste any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u91	........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And it is barbaric to have inequality in the space, in the temple of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u92	Democracy and the temple of democracy because it happens, Mr Gregoryides, that I serve him thirty-five years and not two like you, let me know him better and respect him even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u93	And we saw where you arrived with thirty-five years of service! We saw where you got it! Drain in the mudwaters, in the real mudwaters! We saw where you got her!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u94	Who are they sending to long-distance sludges? Stop! Explain!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u95	Finally, I will be able to speak, to exercise my right to be a parliamentary representative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u96	First of all, don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u97	You want, you don't want to, you'll have it! Understood? I'm here! They didn't plant me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u98	First, don't raise your voice...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u99	You're blocking me from talking! And you have no right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u100	First, don't raise your voice!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u101	You have no right so long to interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u102	Here's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u103	I forbid you to interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u104	Don't raise your voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u105	I'll do it while you break my rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u106	The Minutes are deleted from what Mr Gregoriadis said on'spirits'. Your voice raises it where it takes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u107	So do not defend your parliamentary route that contains five memos if you do not want me to talk about mudwater.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u108	Listen to what I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u109	I'll tell you what the Greek people say. That's who I represent, not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u110	The Greek people showed the percentages of the parties. The Greek people answered two years ago. What do you invoke him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u111	Two years ago? If you dare, do elections today, see what the Greek people will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u112	I'm zeroing your time and in five minutes you're done, having exhausted your denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. We got to know each other better. A few months ago, the "Metsotakis S.A." gave ENERGEAN OIL - above Prenos, somewhere there - a gift of 100m euros because the jobs were not going well, to strengthen the company's viability and to preserve jobs. The company already on the day after the "gift" Mitsotakis, the gift you gave her - and you're all responsible - what did it do? He started redundancies and wage cuts, because he said: "Here they give us 100 million. Let us make another 100 million to the detriment of our poor workers." The workers, of course, did not eat that. They take over and claim their rights. There has been something unprecedented, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: MATs have been sent to trade unions, to workers. It's unprecedented. It's like the government's sending the MATs to defend Olympic hooligans who are fighting with PAOK hooligan or PAOK hooligan. It's such a distortion of any sense of logic. As a therapist your government has operated against "ENERGEAN OIL", to an American company. We therefore demand that you stop trying to suppress workers' struggle by jeopardising workers, as the MATs have thrown a spark of shine into a high-voltage system and it has almost become a misfortune, so that all of them do not remain a swimmer in there. We demand that you now withdraw the MATs from there. Of course we have tabled an amendment, Mr President, to work. We have testified a lot for the work, but since yesterday another terrible scandal in Greece was shattered. Today, this draft law decides that the Epidaurus Festival and the Athens Festival will lose thirteen of its forty-three employees. Many of them here say that they are nineteen years of employees. And what do you do to have them both hostages and the previous ones? You are renewing the contract with amendment every year. This is how we have reached the highest point in humiliation, Mr President, our two international festivals, the most important cultural products produced by the country, may be supported by a staff who is hostage to the governments concerned. No one simulates these bare forty-three people who go beyond the festivals. And you know how they're doing? They're almost alone. As far as I heard yesterday, there are five or ten officials. These forty - eight to fifty people are taking out this festival for which we are all happy. Mrs. Evangelatos, the director of the Athens Festival, said in honour of the day before yesterday - you have appointed her, and not us - that the festival of time cannot be held if you throw them out of thirteen. The president of the festival board, whom you have also appointed, stated that he is seriously thinking himself, along with the entire Board, about getting his teams up and leaving because he will not be the festival. The criterion is amazing. You've been saying that the problem is that this is an illegal one that has to end - now you've caught the capsule to legitimize everything! - and that it has to go through ASEP. And you say, "What should I do? If I put them through S.H.I.E.L.D., there will also be more of these forty-three who will leave." So I say to you that if you mobilize the cursed service of nineteen, seventeen and fifteen years, no one will take their place. And the rest are prophecies in sin. If you want, everyone can stay. The director of the Festival tells you, the president of the Festival's Board of Directors tells you. You don't want everyone to stay. We must, however, all want to remain, because those people whose contract ended on 31 October this year are already unpaid a year. As far as our amendment is concerned, I invite you to see it for humanity and to do so for these thirteen people. Thirteen have been left behind because with a 'greater' criterion of appalling arbitrariness and surrealist irrationality you have decided. At first you said twenty-seven. The Prime Minister rose up and said: “Twenty-seven? There will be nothing from the Festival. It will not remain a swimming pool." You said: 'Okay, stay thirteen'. And I ask you: “With what criterion? The fourteen who escaped what was worse than the thirteen?’ When I asked them yesterday at the Ministry of Culture that I embraced, because I belong to them and not to them in here, Mr President, they said to me: 'We don't know who's going to get fired. It's a lottery. May I, may my side." Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Think you could lose your seat or your next door and not know in twenty-four hours who's gonna lose it. The point is that if you accept this Hermes of Mera25's amendment - I think that SYRIZA has already said that it will be supported - and indeed the conventions of forty-three are actually renewed, as is done every year by amendment, and then in the middle of the year you bring a draft law to go with an ASA to their place, since you will have mobilized and premiumed their service, finally good, all good. Do not forget, when you accept our amendment, that it should be accepted and that it should enter into force on 31 October, because that is the only way these people will not be left without their meals. I will not tell you many years, not because I do not want you to live many years - to live, to enjoy yourselves and your families - but, you know, the way we legislate, the way that we have been treating the Greek people for two and a half years is not long. Thank you very much, Mr President, for being well and I hope we will be able to reconcile ourselves in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u114	As I said, Deputy Minister of Interior will now take the floor, Mr. Petsas. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u115	Five, six minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u116	You have the floor for five minutes, with a small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. In Chapter I of the bill, matters of responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior are dealt with. It is not a big deal of intervention, it is a matter of time. After discussions with the CEDEFOP and the EIA, however, solutions are under way and malfunctions are removed. Solutions are given with provisions for the functioning of the Municipal Councils and TA I Committees, and malfunctions relating to the day-to-day operation of the TA II Committees and development agencies are removed. Furthermore, as the coronary pandemic continues to pose a threat, arrangements for reducing the risk of dispersal and addressing its consequences for the property of the municipalities and the functioning of the TAs are included. Here too, Mr Gregoryiadis, extensions are necessary because the pandemic's development imposed it, not because the government wants to extend and constantly bring such extensions to Parliament. In particular, as regards Article 99, the proposed arrangement regulates the resignation of the office of President, Vice-President or Registrar of the municipal council. In particular, it is foreseen that in this case the member of the Bureau will continue to carry out his duties until the respective post is met in order to ensure the continuity of the municipal council. It also regulates issues relating to the election of a new Bureau member in the event of an evacuation due to death, resignation, independence, deletion or for any other reason. Article 100 complements and reshapes Article 73 of Law 3852/2010 on the responsibilities of the Committee on Quality of Life. In particular, the proposed provision adds to the responsibilities of the Committee on Quality of Life the power to draw up rules for its operation in accordance with the powers of the Economic and Social Committee. Articles 101 and 104 clarify the concept of a combination, given the existence of blocking agreements in accordance with the specific legislative framework governing their formation. It shall be clarified how the votes of the cartel are calculated and the loss of office of an independent consultant who holds a seat in the committees and after his election shall be reinstated in the part from which he has been independently or deleted. These articles refer to the Economic Commission for the Quality of Life of each municipality, Article 101, and the Economic Committee of each district respectively, i.e. Article 104. Article 102 complements Article 75 of Law 3852/2010 on matters relating to the way the Economic Commission and the Quality of Life. In particular, the provisions of the second subparagraph of paragraph 2a shall make it clear that in the event of the chairman's absence or impediment, he shall not take precedence over the vote of the Vice-President or the member of the committee chairing him instead. Finally, the way in which committee meetings are kept in practice is regulated in an attempt to systemize their work and facilitate the exercise of the right of access to documents by citizens. On Article 103, Mr Vorides spoke earlier. I do not need to repeat that this is the last extension and we are in a good agreement with the Ministry of the Environment and Energy in order to provide a definitive solution to a matter that goes back for a more than ten years. Article 105 provides that the effects of the coronary pandemic continue to be extended until 31 March 2022 to allow for an incomplete public area to be granted to the health stores for the development of bank seats beyond the corresponding and provided for in the public space licence, so that the operation of the shops is sustainable and that the distances between the seats are maintained. Article 106 and as a result of the need for ongoing epidemiological surveillance and treatment of cases of the coronary and its mutations, the possibility of awarding an OTA I and B degree public procurement to the supply of materials to deal with the health crisis caused by the coronary by the negotiation process without prior publication is extended until 31 March 2022. Mr Vorides also spoke of Article 107 concerning nurseries. Of course, our will is not to give any further extensions to that. Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for the possibility to extend until 1 March 2022 the time limit for the provision of administrative support provided for in Article 95 of Law 3852/2010 to municipalities in the same regional unit by the municipality of the regional unit or by another nearer municipality with a logistics capacity and staff in order to exercise the additional powers conferred on the municipalities by Article 94 of Law 3852/2010. With Article 109, we have the possibility of granting municipal property free of charge to the public in order to implement firefighting schemes. The concession is conditional on the dissolution of the property being sold or leased by the beneficiary for a 20-year period, with the exception of the parental benefit. For that concession, the relevant decision of the City Council shall be a title for the transfer to the books of the mortgage or the registration of the real estate offices concerned. This provision is general, but as its starting point it has the tragic experience in Eye and its first application is expected to relate to meeting the needs of our firefighting fellow citizens. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Your tolerance for one more minute, Mr President. Article 110 provides for the imposition of temporary traffic and space increases measures to help pedestrians and travellers with mild forms of movement until 31-3-2022, again to deal with the pandemic. Article 112 extends until 30-6-2022 the time limit for the decision of the municipalities, their regional associations and the regions for the establishment of a development organisation, for the adaptation of existing development public limited companies, for the networks of municipalities or regions, or for participation in development organisations, which will henceforth also be able to operate as destination promotion and management organisations. Article 113 also prolongs the regulation of the debts created to the municipalities for the period up to 30-11-2021, as well as debts to the municipalities and legal persons which have become due, including losses of arrangements between 15-2-2020 and 30-11-2021. Article 114, also extends the period for the submission of applications by the debtors for the application of the rules laid down in Article 165 of Law No 4764/2020 to 28-2-2022. And I close, Mr President, by saying only about Article 4 of Amendment No 1184/180 from 21-12-2021, which concerns the time-limits for the Ottawas. As you know, there has been a titanic attempt to reduce the dues of the TAs that were reduced below the level of EUR 100 million last year. However, this year there would be a mechanism which would have to do with preventing the accumulation of new dues which could be retained during the first phase of application of up to 100% of these amounts. In order to make it easier for municipalities in a situation where pandemic continues and at the same time have to face other costs, such as energy costs and burial fee, we set by Article 4 of Amendment No 1184/180 that, for the first application of paragraph 3 of Article 107 of Law No4714/2020, the amount withheld may not exceed 25% of the one-twelfth of the annual regular grant to be entitled to operational and other general expenditure through central independent resources. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u118	We shall now proceed as follows. Three colleagues will speak: Mr Kouvellas, Mr Mandas and Mrs Alexopoulou and Mr Ploris have asked me to speak after his speech. Mr Couvelas Dimitrios has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the last bill debate in 2021. It is recommended by the Ministry of Health, but it concerns, as has rightly been noted, a grid of provisions, a multi-project of critical provisions from more ministries. Ideal, of course, would not come for the vote today on the amendments relating to extensions and other arrangements. That would be the ideal, the most parliamentary, we have admitted and demanded, first of all, that we Members of the majority. But the pandemic phenomenon is dynamic and requires flexibility and vigilance. That is why it makes it necessary to discuss more arrangements today for more ministries, in order to maintain the sense of security for citizens, for our health workers on the front line, given that many issues and deadlines end in other circumstances at the end of this year, in a few days' time. It is certain that 2021 is a year that leaves intense signs to all of us, but through the difficulties that we all experience we can get out on the surface - that is what the perspective shows - and as citizens and as a country to be optimistic about the future and next year. We voted, I recall a few days ago, the most development budget in recent years. It is a given fact - it is recorded by the institutions that are monitoring the economies of the world both at European and global level - that our country is resurrecting the financial stature, that it strengthens the health system within this pandemic that we are living, and, of course, it has a strong say in international organisations, the international forums, and I would say in the end, most importantly, that there is again a point of attraction for international investment, which is called for in our economy, which is being called for in our society. In this climate of general insecurity that exists because of the pandemic, we managed to bring in and show a different policy mix that has instruments that are crucial for the next day. So we have to show and expect less stagnation through the most reforms, less charges and more investments, less taxes and more good jobs, less announcements we have heard in the past and have seen more infrastructure being implemented, made available to the citizens. We have had and look forward to less environmental burdens with more and fairer energy transition and, of course, overall less uncertainty through more development perspective. The provisions of the Ministry of Health, which come to the vote, are obviously crucial, are decisive. We have the "Omicon" mutation for which there is still no certainty how it will continue and whether it will be the cause of a fifth wave, how powerful this will be. So it is necessary to keep up with the continuity of the EEAS and EAFRD. It was self-evident to extend the contracts of various specialists employed there. We have an extension of health, doctors, nurses, assistant personnel, staff transfer to various local health units. Of course, it is crucial that we also have the possibility of having as many donations as possible of medical and paramedical and nursing equipment and equipment as the health system always needs. And of course, with regard to the national vaccination system, the 'Freedom' campaign, and what worked and continues to function in an exemplary way, accuracy and speed, it is necessary to give time and space to continue to operate, even increasing - it is an optimistic message - the rhythms and numbers of our fellow citizens who are vaccinated. I think, not to say better, I'm sure at the end we're all going to win. I do not hide the surprise that I first felt when I heard the rapporteur of the SYRIZA, Mr. Igoumenidis, saying that "you are an irresponsible government, a government that failed in all things", and you, for your part as SYRIZA, are asking for elections, you are asking to take over the rule of the country. But the surprise I first felt was then indignant, ladies and gentlemen, since my colleague called on them to put 'plate' on everything. I really wonder where you're putting your back on the vaccinations? First of all, I would remind you, they questioned the existence of the vaccine, that is, the possibility of having a vaccine. You have then made it difficult in every way, using the great and successful system and the freedom campaign, the possibility of our compatriots being vaccinated very quickly. We then called into question the necessity of the self-tests. In any case, I admit that I cannot overcome my discomfort with the unequivocal statement that you are not putting back on the health system today, you are not putting back on the need for more IDs, you are not putting back on the IDs that have not been developed since the takeover of governance in the summer of 2019 and beyond. But now you're telling us this seriously? I will not repeat the known numbers. ICUs are now a thousand, three hundred and five. For central Macedonia, however, and especially for my city of Thessaloniki, it is worth reminding us that we have only received eighty ICUs and today we have reached two hundred and fifty. Recruitment of health, in which you do not put your back, has increased by more than ten thousand and another five are expected. It is amazing to insist on this opposition refusal at the time when, with suggestions, you can bring it into this national effort. I will conclude by saying that the key interventions of the government, which has a plan, is planned - and this is demonstrated by the more than two hundred fifty bills that have been passed over these two years - will continue with us as opposition colleagues in this national effort, whether or not, or stay on your own. I wish Merry Christmas, many years, with health to everyone and have a better year with optimism for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u120	Now Mr Mandash has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in a position to legislate immediately and exceptionally because of the pandemic, we are once again in a position to take measures and specific arrangements in a difficult and unforeseen environment. And, unfortunately, these measures are necessary again, but also necessary, because, obviously, the pandemic is not yet over, but because our country, unfortunately, has not yet succeeded in building up the level of health protection needed to leave this adventure behind. It is true that in this national effort, we were not all at the level that we should have given, we did not all share the same message and we did not all join in the joint effort. I have heard many times the Chief of Police Vice-Population, Mr. Tsipras, but also many SYRIZA officials claiming and saying, without second thought, that they have put back on several occasions and that they have supported the vaccination effort. We have been called enthusiastics and liars, that we are not supposed to recognise their own contribution, that we are dividing the Greeks and that we are financing the channels, that we are wronged because they have tried and that we should be more consensual and flexible toward them. And, of course, I'm just wondering, like everyone else: Is it possible to claim all these things? Is it possible to say these things in such a cynical way in public? Do we live in another country, in another country, or have they finally been placed to correct and distort any sense of logic and any dimension of normality? Because, ladies and gentlemen, it was not that when the pandemic broke out, in February 2020, and we started taking the first steps and canceling the events, the Halloween, then, if you remember well, their Chief was hiding for three days - on the 3rd day of Pure Monday - until he saw what public opinion would say, to see whether or not he would be drafted with these decisions? Was it not that when we had the first dead, they attacked the government directly, as if the government brought the pandemic and said where they stand and where they were found "we will then be accounted for"? Really, what happened to that amazing slogan? When exactly will the time come for us to reason? Did you forget all this when you realized that the world is no longer pinching and that it turns your back fast? And, of course, you have just realized since the polls that the government had made good decisions and that huge contributions to them were made by Sotiris Tsiodras, you have launched an unprecedented attack and an unprecedented murder of a character. You think we have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the irony of the sanctum, the undermining and the questioning because he was tense and religious and because he liked to sing. Only "sold" didn't you tell him because he had a good relationship with the Prime Minister and because he was inspiring with the people's word. And a little later, when we came out of the first lockdown, you were yelling again, because you said we had to do faster because there was a great deal of damage to the economy. When we opened tourism you were again shouting because, as you were saying, we did not have a plan and because we would have many imported cases and the rejuvenation of the pandemic. When we received televised again, you yelled and said that we had a record of students, teachers and teachers. Even with 'CISCO' you put them in, trying to find scandals there, of course, that do not exist. Reaction to everything. That was your attitude, and then, but now too. You think we forgot Mr Tsipras in November 2020 to question vaccines. "Mr Mitsotakis, the vaccines are nonexistent and you trade in hope." That's what your Chief said. You think we forgot in January 2021 when he said that twenty-five thousand vaccinations a day is an impossible dream. And, of course, when we got the hundred thousand, he didn't have a single word to say. You think we forgot about the undermining you made in self-tests when you moved fast news for allegedly "SIEMENS" participation in the competition and you suspected that everything was done to give gifts to the company. Did you forget about Kufondina? We didn't forget them when the president even asked you to give in to his extortion so that we didn't, supposedly, have a dead hunger strike. Six hundred thirty-two marches and reactions organized. Do you think we don't remember all this? Was the ‘vaccination of vaccines’ also support for the vaccination programme? The support for young people with the EUR 150 to be vaccinated, you have also made this quite clear. As far as compulsory vaccination of health is concerned, that is where you discovered the unprecedented: voluntary compulsoryity. And, of course, you have voted against the fines for unvaccinant parents, you have voted against the mandatory vaccination of sixty or more, you have voted against the penalties for fake vaccination certificates. So you think people don't know all this? Ladies and gentlemen, the list literally has no end, because SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen, the truth is one: never "you've put the back" that you should have, never supported the country and the vaccination program, never put the pandemic above your party interest and never thought about the country and nation when it needed a patriotic and responsible opposition. So you have deprived the country of the single front for the common position that we must all have with regard to a pandemic. What he did not dare to make opposition throughout Europe did so in Greece, SYRIZA opposed the pandemic itself. And the more opposition in the country becomes so extreme and toxic, the short-sighted and reactionary, so we will never find the necessary balances and consents needed for our entire political system to be consulted. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the new year will be the starting point for you to change your attitude and move along with the overwhelming majority of citizens in the national effort to fight the pandemic together and get away from it as quickly as possible. Happy holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Health is nothing but a series of measures and provisions that need to be taken in the middle of the fourth wave of the pandemic in our country and an extremely difficult and complex situation caused by the global health crisis. Today we are called upon to vote on a bill which, among other things, ensures the continued offer of the EEA and EEAS by extending contracts of all kinds of personnel employed and extending the operation of the vaccination centres. The possibility of direct recruitment of doctors of all specialties under appointment is also extended, the possibility of recruiting subsidiary, nurse and other staff, while also important is that care is taken for the medical treatment of both insured patients and the most deprived persons. And in the midst of this outbreak, there is an undeniable need for the uninterrupted and continuous supply of the National Health System and all supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health. Such extensions shall contribute to avoid adverse social, economic and health effects focusing on the general population. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society recognises that in this difficult and demanding two years the government has taken a number of essential steps to support and strengthen the ESS by recruiting health and more than doubled the IM beds, at the same time that, even today, no health systems in any country of the world are fully prepared to deal with this unprecedented health situation. A equally important issue, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to which both the Prime Minister and you, Mr Plovri, have stood, particularly in the last few days, is the testing. It is important that this bill provides for diagnostic tests which contribute decisively to the detection of the virus and its mutations. The coronary diagnostic test is essentially, because with the vaccines our weapons are against this outbreak of the pandemic wave. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government is doing everything necessary to shield the national health system, ensure the proper functioning of public hospitals and protect public health. Faced with this effort, in the face of this obscure battle we are all fighting against the common threat, the Civic Opposition is not only absent, but is trying to undermine and divide in every way. And this is evidenced by the fact that SYRIZA voted against almost all policies against pandemic. You said no to the mandatory health vaccination. You said no to strict fines for fake vaccination certificates. You have voted against compulsory vaccination of more than sixty. You have voted against the strict penalties against uninvasive parents who do not send their children to school. With what you are tabling in the public debate you are giving the impression that you do not know or what you are saying or what you want. You're on two boats. But Mr. Tsipras said, but Mr. Blondos and Mr. Paulakis did. Unfortunately this is SYRIZA's tactic against pandemic, sample and proof of immatureness and lack of respect and urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a special reference to Article 82 of this draft law on the ratification of the convention on the construction of the Patras to Tower road, a major project which received the final approval of funding from the European Commission days ago. This flagship project will finally begin in the beginning of 2022, so that Achaia, Western Greece, the entire country and the Peloponnese will finally have a modern and secure motorway. We don't want any more dead. There is no doubt that the positive outcome of the case is a right to the policy pursued by the current government and another commitment to the Greek citizens who are being implemented. We have said so, and already the Achaean society has welcomed this news with great enthusiasm and relief, as such infrastructure, in addition to all others, strengthen our country's international position, contribute decisively to local development, to the improvement of the everyday and quality of life of citizens, and also serve as an economic multiplier to stimulate the market and create many new jobs. Our region needs these jobs. In conclusion, the draft laws that we have voted for so far have faced the health and economic crisis have solved problems, have exceeded deadlocks and, at the end of the year, we are given the opportunity to pass laws to overcome malfunctions based on the needs and highlights of society, institutions and ministries. It is necessary to make arrangements to serve the citizens as best as possible, to prove that the health of the Greeks is above parties, is above colors. With these thoughts, I invite you to vote in favour of the current draft law of the Ministry of Health. I wish you good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, my colleague. The Minister for Health now has the floor, Mr Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by mentioning the bill because I have heard a criticism made of the bill which comes with many provisions from different ministries. Let's get something straight. That is exactly what we said we were going to do, and that is why we said and the Conference of Presidents knew that there would be a bill in which there would be a debate on all the loose ends of each ministry. And because there is also a reference to the amendments, yes, of course, if someone stands up here for the amendments and shows the following reports, it is making a lot of money. In principle, most of the amendments have to do with extensions that apply. So let's say two - three things about the pandemic. Currently since September, a procedure has been followed which also relates to the draft law on compulsoryity in various categories in order to be vaccinated, which has been voted against by the Civic Opposition. This was, first of all, about health workers, where they had to be vaccinated in order to continue working and not to be suspended. The pandemic shows us - and this is something we must be clear about - that this measure must continue, and that is why in the bill you see its first article is the extension of the review of the measure. So, yes, until 30 March, it will not be possible for doctors, nurses and other health staff to return to work. And here I want us to be clear about something, and we've been telling it from now on. Obviously, the pandemic shows that this measure can become all compulsory, not only for the time we are now. The pandemic shows that vaccination is necessary and is therefore clearly considered whether those providing services as doctors, nurses and other health staff in the National Health System should be vaccinated. So those on parole now know that the duration of a pandemic will be suspended, but it is also being examined - and within this framework it will be completed - that there may be no other possibility of prolonging and waiting for the state, but they should be vaccinated, otherwise they will not be able to provide their services to the National Health System. It is now clear that vaccination is for both the protection of society and patients and anyone who wants to provide services to the National Health System should be vaccinated. So, with the data we have on the pandemic course, it is clear that this measure will remain. And it won't just be for that trimester there. It is a measure that will remain and therefore those who want to be in the National Health System are invited this quarter to make a decision whether they will be vaccinated or not and who will put themselves outside the National Health System themselves. A second very important part that came with an amendment is - and I said it at the outset to make it clear - that there are doctors and nurses who accept unfounded treatments and sues every day. In pandemic conditions, they are targeted and unfortunately targeted by some people who are very expensive to come out and say if they are trained and can provide services to those people in the first line, doctors and nurses who are in the ICU, who are in the emergency, who are in the CIVID hospitals. At the same time, they should be brought into case-file and a defence should be arranged. So we come here clearly - and I have not heard from the parties yet - to hear from us how many people respect them or do not respect them and determine negligence, both in criminal and moral law, under the conditions that must be laid down during the pandemic, so that they are not shedding unfounded conducts and sues, which, unfortunately, my colleagues are signing up to. Colleagues, I mean in my profession, in the law. Therefore, with Article 3 of the amendment, we determine the negligence of handling COVID incidents. The negligence of medical or nursing staff when treating hospitalised patients suffering from the CVID-19 Coronary is limited only to acts and omissions that manifestly oppose the general rules of medical science or the medical protocol on the management of incidents of CVID-19 or the health measures applicable on Greek territory to deal with the CVID-19 pandemic. So we have a restriction of negligence without our fellow citizens actually having fallen into a medical error and obviously have the right to access. The restriction of negligence is precisely to protect those who want to move in court, precisely because there is a basis for a medical mistake, but not all the others who try with various theories that we read and see daily target doctors who may decide to incorporate a man and produce a cure for him. I therefore think it is a regulation which helps people in the frontline, doctors and nurses, do their job and can continue to support the national health system. There are therefore a number of serious arrangements. It is the extension of the ESS to people who have lost the ESS and have lost it - because I also see the protest that has been said here - by the SYRIZA government. And now we see the arrangements that are being made. And yes, it is the arrangement that for next year they will not be involved in drugs. I have already heard Mrs Fotou mention uninsured. Obviously what we are regulating is that there can be a transitional period, if necessary, and not obviously, as Mrs Fotio says, to the elections. It's a conscious position. And you saw the scandal in Thessaloniki. If you saw what was coming and damaged the EGC in an uninsured state, they'd come in, because they're privileged AMKA. So we continue the measure that exists to go to the public structures for prescribing and then have their treatment free of charge, but we need the physical presence precisely because many AMKAs are used not to be AMKAs resident in Greece, but also because they are privileged AMKAs because we do not have to participate in a number of categories, unfortunately they are written. So we have reached a cost of 310 million, while real expenditure is estimated at EUR 130 to 140 million, which means saving EUR 180 million, without depriving it of access at all. The exception that is given is - in the debate that we had if you remember last time - to be able to monitor the pandemic data, although there is a need for an extension, or for categories such as vaccines, to be excluded. And the seasonal allowance is very important in the amendment that comes from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs concerning people who are in tourism and culture and could not have obtained the special purpose allowance. A number of the issues are also dealt with, and one of them is the question of the private clinics you mentioned. Again, you come here and you make a criticism and I will refer to one or two issues. As you will see, at the moment we are establishing in the amendment to private clinics the possibility of being able to operate in private clinics, which, by decision of the Secretary-General, have entered into the management of pandemics - i.e. private clinics that have incidents that are sent to them by public hospitals, not COVID the incidents - become surgery outside and are able to do these surgery to make a doctor of the ESS, i.e. use the facilities of the private clinic. Over there if you remember it was a review of yours that we're sending surgery to private clinics. Now we come and tell you that the space will be used because perhaps at a public clinic, all the IF beds or all the IF beds may be COVID beds and need beds to become the surgery. So the surgery can be done in the private clinic by the ERC doctor. And in this case what the private clinic will pay is only the CEN without any other surcharge. Similarly, the measure we have continues, that for decongestion the public structure can also send surgery to private clinics. So here I want to see what criticism you are going to make. Because they will obviously start now to say that: "Go and create the relationship that the doctors of the ESS will go to operate in private clinics." If we open it in general, we will open it with a bill that will come, if we consider it necessary, and we have said it many times that we want public-private partnerships. But here it is to deal with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u126	You won't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Pollack, it didn't work out for you the last time you interrupted me, so I'd rather not be interrupted. At the moment, we regulate this possibility so that they can be used in clinics, for example in Thessaloniki, for you told us that we were giving gifts, that the doctor of the ESS should go to surgery. So it automatically becomes the incident as a public incident and obviously the responsibility in this case in terms of civil coverage, continues to have the public. It is a very important amendment from the Ministry of Finance. From the account opened for the donations, part of these will be given to the Ministry of Health and the EKAB in order to enable the seventeen ambulances to be supported with seventeen ambulances in the EKA. Similarly, in all the legislation on the health section - there are other ministries - you have seen that they are extensions of time which expire on 31 December. I have heard a criticism from the committee saying this: why do you come every three months and legislate and say by one general provision that for as long as there are a pandemic there will be? Excuse me, but that would be a terrifying advantage for the government to do so. Do you actually know what you're asking the government to do if you think this should be applied? Bring in an article and say that all these provisions are extended and whenever we want to abolish them. The fact that we are coming here every three months and we are discussing them shows exactly the government's respect for Parliament. Because the provisions one might consider to be problematic, we are in the process of discussing them every quarter, as we have come and are discussing the compulsory vaccination of health personnel in the National Health System. And I come to tell you that the will of the government is clear and that it is a measure that will remain, because the pandemic shows these lessons. So we are now coming to the phase of the pandemic in which we are, and I will answer the questions that have been asked about the IF beds, about the staff. I heard Mr Tsipras yesterday - if possible! - say that "five thousand people say the famous Tsiodra - Lytra study that they died outside hospitals". If that's possible! It's a false news that there are five thousand of our fellow people who died outside hospitals! But we'll come to the numbers to see what's happened and what's going on with the pandemic. At the moment, our country, while it had passed the peak of the fourth wave, was bending. There is a great deal of concern because of the "Omicon" mutation mutation and the data we receive from the other countries, but we are watching our data every day, because "Omicon" shows that it has a much greater contagion, without at this time being able to safely say that it has less morbidity. There are some studies in this direction, but the only sure and safe thing we have is that there is a great deal of contagiousness. So there is a clear position of the government and it is meeting, and now the Committee on Infectious Substances and we have asked it as a suggestion to do us that, after the holidays, there will certainly be a framework of restrictive measures, because these measures will be discussed, the committee will recommend them and the government will take the decisions. But there will be restrictive measures so that we can monitor and control the pandemic. For this time of the holidays we invite our fellow citizens to go and do the self-test. It is very important that we have the tracking in real time for what is happening. And while the initial measure of self-test had not been in operation, the last time it was about making a large part available for free was finally allocated, but not what we would like. It's too critical to make the test. But, from there on, we're tracking the data every day. The government's will, as was reflected yesterday by the Prime Minister, is that measures should apply after holidays. Immediately after the holidays we will consider what measures are to be taken and what measures are to be taken, which will we accept, namely, from what the committee proposes to us. In the next few days, however, there is close monitoring and, depending on the information we have, we will determine our decisions willingly, but will normally be made at this time of the celebrations with the existing measures, which are only measures for enclosed vaccinated areas, which are measures which have to do with a number of issues, so that there is no dispersion of the pandemic. That is why - I say quite clearly - the controls that will take place next 10 days will be almost those that have been carried out all the time that has passed. So no one should be understood in any area where he works that he will not do control in order to find only people who are vaccinated. It is very important that our country was opened early on the third dose, and at the moment I have to tell you the following things that exist, which show that our country is now on the European average as regards vaccination and first on vaccination of the booster dose. With yesterday's data from vaccination to the general population, the people who have programmed the vaccination are at 70%, those who completed it are 66%, while the adult population is 80% those who have programmed - when I say they have programmed, I mean that they have definitely done the first dose and are waiting for the second dose - and 75% in full vaccination. It is very important that there has been a rise in seriousness among our fellow citizens over sixty, where we are now at 88%, when before the compulsory measure was applied it was 81%, so to see whether the measures are working or not. And in the commemorative dose of about five million seven hundred thousands of beneficiaries who have four million fifty-nine, 72%, whether they have done so or have made an appointment to do so. We therefore believe that vaccination will be an important parameter because, ladies and gentlemen, all the investigations show that the booster dose is important to the 'Miclon' mutation. We hope, therefore, that the speed of these vaccinations and the coverage of the third dose with the opening of the quarter and to the extent that we will be able to disperse 'Omicon' to carry it as late as possible is an equation, which shows us and tells us experts that the spread is too fast, but we hope that we have a timeframe, as we have identified just after holidays, so that we also have that cover. So there's also a big conversation - I've been listening to it all the time - about the staff and the ITH beds. First of all, the evidence I'm telling you is from the Ministry's BI. They are comparable period of SYRIZA governance and the period of today. These are the facts that exist today. We refer to a thousand thirty - thirty beds of ICU when we received five hundred and fifty - seven beds of ICU. And because there is a conversation about how these IF beds are being captured, I would like to tell you that today, because you know the IF beds are a dynamic framework especially now, related to staff transfer and to close and open MF beds that exist, we tell you about the operating MF beds - the current data is that the 1st YPE has three hundred six, in 2019 on SYRIZA had a hundred fifty-six, in 2019 on SYRIZA forty-six, in 2019 on SYRIZA eight, in 2019, in SYRIZA for eight, in 2019, in SYRIZA forty-seven, in 2019, in SYRIZA forty-seventh-seventh-seventh-seven, in 2019, in SYRIZA four-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-sth-seventh-s, in 2019, six-sixth-seven-seven-seven-sixth-seventh-sixth-sixth-seventh-st-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-sixth-seventh-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-s-st-st-st-st-s-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-s But what is interest, because I heard questions? In July 2019, there were five hundred and fifty seven beds, in winter 2019, there were five hundred ninety two beds. I'm telling you the evidence of the Ministry's VI. You had them and we used them. So it means to the question: 'What happened until March?' that in winter 2019 without a pandemic, thirty-seven beds had been added to the system. Furthermore, five hundred and fifty-seven beds were only available for non-COVID cases, since there was no COVID. At the moment we have the beds shared with a dynamic equation. And today we are talking about more than a hundred beds in the non COVID incidents than we have received. In other words, even if we compare beds to absolute numbers, what serve non COVID incidents, they serve much more. You requested the evidence to have it, but I am surprised that this is because we are talking about it and this information obviously tomorrow - tomorrow may change, but these are the figures that exist. And what do I mean can change, why are all these misunderstandings still happening? It can be in a hospital, for example, right now that an anesthesiologist comes out and leaves until the bed is closed. This was done in a number of hospitals. There may be a tranquility tomorrow morning in a sanitary district and there may be no beds in the system. So this is a dynamic equation, but they are beds that have developed. The VI shows the operating beds and I compare VI with VI, because someone else can turn around and say, "Let's go see what's going on." And per hospital they come out, and that's it. So, there, what's going on to make this clear? At the moment we're talking, there's fifteen beds, for example, empty in the 7th RCD. They look empty. Yeah, those IF beds are empty. Obviously, at the moment, if someone is intubated outside of the ITH in Drama, can it be transferred to Heraklion? Because there's talk. I've heard a lot of things and I wonder if they're sounded by doctors. To be heard from another world hear that 'where are these beds?' But it depends where the incident is where the bed is and if the bed is vacant at that time, and if at that time it had an incident and when the bed was evacuated, and when the bed can be reopened or possibly for two or three days temporarily be ten beds closed for some reason, for example from Athens, when we carried staff to Thessaloniki, when there was the heavy pressure, can be reordered for a few days, while there were beds not to be seen. And you want a personal one? With staff, all these beds are stationed and we have the evidence. I'm saying it because you said it again. I tell you again and every time you ask, I will come and tell you. And every day you can watch the VI, see how the condition of the IF beds is. And here we have said that because this is happening - and I say it again - for the EAW crossings etc., I have to say that with the previous political leadership over SYRIZA it was the process of electronic platform with the EAW and you know how the electronic platform works and that over there any participation is only doctors, anesthetic doctors at the ICU and the people who handle the platform and there is no other interference to be clear about the whole ICU issue. So we come here and say that again from seventy-six thousand and sixty-eighteen people who were in July 2019, they are at the moment eighty-seven thousand eighty-six. That's the evidence that's being given to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u128	You're lying again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u129	I'm telling you the evidence given by the VI. Vi is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Comrade, please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u131	So let's go see what the criticism you're making is. You say 'permanent or subsidiary'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u132	Total personnel!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u133	So let's get this straight. First of all, is it subsidiary or is it permanent for the staff to agree that they are working and providing services? Is there anyone around here saying the assistant will produce less service? Although and how and who will be permanent is a criticism you of course can make it. But being subsidiary prevents the National Health System from being staffed? Obviously, they come out of notices and will become permanent staff, but whether the hospital is working or not, is it critical that because he is the other subsidiary I will not count on him having put him in the system? And this world is even more. Why isn't it here? The partnerships we have with the private sector and we've taken whole clinics and it's all staff. The three hundred fifty COVID and non-COVID beds of Thessaly and the four hundred COVID and non-COVID of Thessaloniki have all the staff, which actually provides services of the ESS. Private doctors who have entered the system and are in the system and work. So it's a lot more personal. What is their employment relationship, whether it is permanent or subsidiary, is another conversation, but obviously it cannot be a criticism of whether it has been staffed or not. We have therefore made all these efforts and continue to do so. We are ready on an ESS, which has really fought too much. He has fought too much! And while it was in a recession now and there was a fall in imports and we hoped it would be balanced to be ready to deal with 'Omicon', we are taking steps to be ready now. Because 'Omicon' we do not know what escalation it will hit our country, especially as to what nursing will lead to. However, we are ready with the IF beds, with a debate that is being held and closed with the private sector and for Athens, specific clinics that will enter the battle for COVID and non-COVID incidents, with the staff who exist, which we shield from the unfounded sues and actions that are being done, with the reinforcement of the world that we have received, with a new order operation completed for these regions, but this ordering of services will be as far as private doctors are concerned, in order to shield the system. Therefore, every criticism should be a criticism that will keep the people of the system out of the system and the talk about the ICMs, the only ones who ultimately insult are those who serve the National Health System. All the provisions of the Ministry of Health are necessary provisions which need to be voted on, because they are provisions enabling our country to be further shielded. And the whole bill has been analysed by our rapporteur, which I have to say - and I have to say from a Step-by-step House - impressed me. I first saw a rapporteur in a bill not having any paper in front of him and speaking from his breasts! So I'd like to mention it. Merry Christmas to have! We will be on constant standby with the Committee on Limitology. We'll keep having conversations all this time. Merry Christmas and we will be ready and at any pressure from the National System there is from the "Omicon". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u135	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u136	Mr Polakis, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has already asked for the floor, so I think he will cover you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u137	Madam President, just one minute's reason for a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u138	Come on, Mr. Comrade, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I asked why, when I went up to the Step for my speech, I had tabled a question from the committee and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u140	Yes, I'll answer you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u141	One is, as far as EAFRD workers are concerned, 'PHILOS' and others. The second is clarification, what the Minister said at first, with regard to workers on the ESS, who are suspended, which was extended up to 31-32022, and beyond - as the Minister said - there is a strong - I do not know, let us clarify - the possibility of redundancies. This was announced by the Minister. So, Minister, we would like to clarify this and, as far as the question is concerned, an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u143	For your question, I'm sorry because I didn't answer it. There is an extension of the "GEOFYRA" programme - that was a programme that was supported - by February, when it will be extended. But the program will continue, it will enter a new program...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u144	So, for another two months?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u145	No, look out. In February, he's going to be in a new program. Now we're running out of schedule. There is an extension for two months in order to get out of the new programme and to continue properly. So, in the CSCE, which has been signed, FEC came out now, this two-month extension was given, it is "GEOFYRA". The Ministry of Reform will be renewing for a two-month period, but I'm telling you now it's not just for two months. PHILOS will be included in a new programme in order to keep the world and continue to provide. But, as it is over, we gave the extension with a KHS - it was not legal here to come - for the two-month period and within this two-month period, a new programme will be prepared to join, to continue because there is a need for the service that exists. I want to be clear. The Government is now reviewing that if necessary in order to provide the service with the ERC with vaccinated, no more extensions can be made and decisions should be made whether you should be vaccinated or not. So the pandemic shows us that it was not a temporary process, a temporary situation, as we thought, that in a phase one could return without being vaccinated. So, at the moment, within this trimester that exists and has been extended, we will be clear whether, in order to provide the service, you should be vaccinated from here and beyond all the time. If it is decided that you should be vaccinated to provide services to the National Health System, it is evident in this decision that those who have not been vaccinated or vaccinated or do not remain in the National Health System will be called.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Xanthos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u147	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a position a moment ago by the relevant Minister of Health, which instead of strengthening the security climate in society, that the government responsible is monitoring developments, monitoring the directions of science, European and global, and is preparing appropriately for an upcoming revival in a very strong way of pandemic because of the 'Omicon' mutation, the Minister is here, dedicating a third of his speech to attack Anti-Population and tells us that we are moving forward as we have said and after the celebrations we will review our stance. You are not a global, European and domestic health reality! In fact, you're showing criminally reflexive during this period. All the countries of Europe are on alert, the World Health Organisation, the ECDC, everyone. Countries with huge rates of vaccination coverage and is understood by far more powerful health systems take restrictive measures especially for the holiday season. And you tell us that we will continue as it is, that is, on the wrong line, that we have an uninvasive pandemic! It's really a tragic manipulation. Tragic! Not even the possibility in spaces of mass meeting, focusing, fun social events, at this time, there is no provision to reduce the coverage rate, completeness! There can be no social meetings at this time with 100% capacity. There can be no tightening of the health protocols. You are giving the wrong message to society, and that is the problem as a whole in your management. That's a structural problem. You have from the outset had a sense of temporaryity and a brief parentheses which will be closed, in particular, by the advent of vaccines. This has been tragically disproved. It comes "Omicon" and breaks all the arguments that the history of epidemics concerns only the invasive ones and you insist on the same line and you don't listen to the scientists in the country. The Prime Minister has become a strange hybrid epidemic and ever since and intensive. It comes out every such insulting to the scientific community and it announces health measures, makes epidemiological forecasts and says when the third dose has to be made, says what duration the vaccination certificate should have before being placed in the scientific bodies. More depreciation, greater insult to the country's scientific world has never occurred in recent years. I don't expect any scientists to tell me if I'm gonna shield the health system. "We hear the scientists..." the current Minister has said "...but that's as far as it is. We decide.' Well, your decisions create conditions that are favourable to living even greater health tragedy than the one we now live in. And obviously we do not invest in destruction, but we must warn and take the necessary measures, which you have not taken, because your main political option was not to invest in the public health system, but to quickly go through the brothel and bring this line back to the private market, public-private partnerships, the creation of favourable opportunities for private investment within the ERC, the hard core of the ERC. This is your political plan and obviously since July 2019 you took over, you have done nothing to strengthen the public health system. What you say is false, that they were added from the first months of your administration before the pandemic forty beds. But what to expect from a government that her chief, the Prime Minister, has the courage to come here and say that Tsipras put us in the memoirs. Everything we can hear from you now. All of it! And you are really insulting the intelligence of workers in the health system, who know very well that they are giving this battle of the fourth epidemic wave with fewer powers. This comes from everywhere. Where we are going at this time, in public structures, in hospitals, in health centers, everywhere, the picture is that the battle is being given with fewer powers. And it is understood by a more tired and exhausted staff, with low morality and, of course, with a disorganized system as a whole. There are two, three very problematic provisions. We have reported in total, we have made the criticism of this whole package of regulations and extensions, the issue of regulation for uninsured persons is really dangerous at this stage. Guaranteed access and facilitation, even more so, with the regulation of being able to go to professional doctors, to prescribe them for their medicines and examinations, were on the line of universal health coverage, according to the WHO programme, so that there would be no obstacles to access. And you come and undo this right, in his name that the medical expenses went up and increased the pharmaceutical clawback. Is that your argument and you're telling us now about some privileged AMCA? Who's going to solve this? So, the privileged AMKA will cease to exist if an uninsured private doctor does not go to the public system, to the public structures? Solve it, if there is a matter, and it is understood, do not adopt these unfounded estimates, that half of the pharmaceutical cost is make, that it is challenging demand. Where does that come from? Who has given you this figure that it is 150 million and 160 million, the actual pharmacological cost of uninsured and not 300, 310 million? It's a challenge you're making. Because you were also crippled by the patients' clubs and you had to take a small step backwards and leave it to the Minister - I said it beforehand to the committee - without scientific criteria, without anyone proposing to him. Who will suggest you, Minister? Will you decide which drugs, which tests and what treatments will fall under the arrangement or not? Will the EEAS recommend it to you? Will he recommend it to you? Who's gonna suggest it to you? Protect yourself, above all, Minister, if you really want to deal with this issue, get the setting back. It is true that at a time of particular health crisis, the universal coverage line must be guaranteed and must not, in any case, be called into question. It's right to set up and I'm rushing to answer and don't try to pre-empt now, see what's going to say Disarmament, I haven't heard anyone say yet. Obviously any regulation, which legally shields the provision of medical services by malicious attacks by a pipeline industry, is positive. Obviously, it is positive and we will support it. And the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and the hospital doctors and everyone. But, first of all, it comes late when this industry has already been activated and the world feels insecure and our colleagues have already been invited to testify on specific cases, which are obviously related to legal offices, have begun to act on complaints, etc. First, then, she's retarded. It was a problem that you rushed to give legal protection and irresistible protection to the members of the committees and excluded the people of the front line. But there is another point that goes on to say that she is retarded, and there is another point. The question is the conditions for providing services to the health system to be made safer. Improve the staffing of critical departments and especially of emergency departments of CIVID clinical, ITHC and medical and nursing staff, feel our fellow Members that their state supports, that it is taking steps to improve their working conditions and, above all, that it is taking steps to improve their wages. So this regulation, which will obviously be voted on, should be within a new strand of incentives and wages and labour and continuing education, in order to improve care standards, so that our colleagues do not feel that they are vulnerable to the management of incidents, for which they may not have the necessary skills and experience. This is the crucial issue and while this is not addressed radically, the tendency to leave and leave the health system will be strengthened. Of all the recruitments you're saying they've been made at the BI, will you tell us right now, in the picture of the moment - now - how many people are just serving per hospital? Can we add them and see how many of them come out, permanent and contractors? You'd be surprised, especially on the doctors' side. So if there is no such integrated intervention, there will continue to be a leak of medical resources, Brain drain, resignation and fleeing either to the private sector or to the outside. You're telling us you're legislating. You're experts in structuring, and you as a lawyer even more. You are now telling us that, out of respect for Parliament and parliamentary procedures, you bring us here and we legislate every three months. The main problem of this logic is that you want to give a signal that we are ending with the pandemic, without realising what the whole world says, that we now have a new phase that will take a long time and requires another type of organisation of health systems. This is the essence of the matter and requires multi-level interventions and not only obsessed with vaccination, which, of course, vaccination is key intervention, the main and most important and active weapon of primary prevention and retraining of the pandemic. However, vaccination must go in combination with the control of dispersal among the general population and the community with good pre-innovation management, with home surveillance and care of people diagnosed and in quarantine, in order to assess the state of their health and to move in time towards the hospital, which is not happening today. That is what Mrs Adamopoulou mentioned earlier, if I remember correctly, from Mera25. This is the reality of the late search for medical services and is related to the country's high mortality. At the moment we have the worst indicators in Europe! We are first in Europe at the weekly trend of deaths on a daily basis per million population. We are first in the CFR index, deaths per case, first in the import index in hospitals and in the CFR per million population. Here are the evidence and I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Xanthos, presents for the Minutes the above figures, which are found in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From where we were in the first wave we were in the best places in Europe, for too long we have been in the worst position. In fact, I fear that at this time when the 'Omicon' mutation has increased, we will be the bad example in Europe when it comes to managing it with all that line you have. And while everything is in trouble, you come here and tell us unresected and provocative that you're doing everything well. That is precisely why, therefore, and because there is no point in telling you to be serious, we have made huge efforts and calls for consultation and proposals for a common approach, to the minimum possible, for a minimally agreed strategy to strengthen the health system. Pro-government media are now coming out, such as the "SYRIKI" EDITORIAL OF "HOME" which says "Strengthen the ESS". Everyone says that. And the Chiodra study ends up in it, that's what it is for, and that's why you're deceiving it. So you come, and you say you're doing everything well. This debate really no longer makes sense. That is why, in our view, it is now very much ripe in society for a change of course in political matters and a new alternative political plan with a progressive figure, which will set other priorities, make a further hierarchy of needs, support the health system, support social cohesion, support public health in the country. This is the great political risk of this period. This will call for everyone to be placed. This government is constantly placing responsibility on society and, of course, on opposition. It is challenging for your Members to come here with dust and say that we have questioned the vaccines, that we are undermining the national effort and that we are doing health sabotages. That's what you're saying! However, the world of the health system, but also the citizens, know very well that we have been fighting for two years now to safeguard the most valuable thing that exists, and which has been proven by the pandemic of public health, which you have never had for many years. You have barely said that the private sector is overridden and that we need to integrate its own culture into the health system, that is, culture, in order to understand, to avoid involvement in pandemic and the culture of speculation in the middle of a pandemic. This culture you want us to jam in the health system? Is it a demand that private clinics do not take part in the COVID incidents, contrary to what has happened all over the world and across Europe? For example, centre-right McCrone has them and 30% of CIVID hospitalizations are done in private clinics. The state-owned in many private sectors in Greece demanded, by your own accord, that this should not happen. In fact, you haven't even exploited military hospitals. Only in this way can there be decompression and reduce the waiting lists of intertwined people, who are now, of course, losing their lives by 90%. I therefore believe that these are crucial issues. I believe - I come back to this and close - that we need a social and political front that will claim, demand and give way to society's demand for more confidence, more security, more social protection, more strengthening of the public health system and guaranteed care to those who really need it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Giannakopoulou, now has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are completing the second year of the horn pandemic. Two years we have lived in Greece, but also on the whole of the planet, a hard test. Pandemic is certainly a global phenomenon, an enemy of all mankind who is trying to face this invisible enemy. However, what differentiates the situation in one country on the other is the government policies pursued, the prevention measures taken, and of course the different level of vaccination from country to country. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, has an amazing originality which, unfortunately, is dangerous. While in the first wave there were early decisions, after the scientists' proposal, and we had very good results, the picture then changed. Indicators show that from now on, from wave to wave, the proportions of cases are getting worse. The intubations and human losses are becoming more and more, while there is a constant, constant pressure on the National Health System that has reached its limit both doctors and nurses, who have been giving a heroic struggle for two years. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we discussed the budget approved by the majority, and during the debate there were many reports on the progress of the pandemic and on the delays, on the government's responsibilities, Minister. However, every day it passes increases our concern. It increases concern and uncertainty about the future. It increases the concern and uncertainty of Greek citizens. Even for exactly what tests should be done before holidays, Minister, there were leaks from your government. There were dubious messages. There was a mix-up in general. You know, I don't say it with satisfaction, because the Change Movement never thought that pandemic could and should be at the heart of political confrontation, at the centre of party competition on political confrontation. That is why, from the outset, we have been in charge of criticism, but above all with proposals for which we have never feared the political cost. And we supported difficult measures when other anti-population forces leveled everything or, if you like, they even closed their eyes to the invaders. We cannot, however, remain silent when every day that the government passes, is constantly swayed and delayed. Let us say this even more clearly, ladies and gentlemen. The government's failure to manage the pandemic has made it lose control. You do less than you have to do and what you do, you do it too late. Vaccines were delayed. The checks were abolished in practice. Social measures in public transport have never actually been implemented. You have never made a substantial information campaign at local level in cooperation with self-government. You have not strengthened the ESS and the primary health as much as the conditions require. You have not even tried to cope with the regional inequalities the National Health System has shown with fatalities for thousands of Greek citizens. You have not dared, in order to say things by their name, Minister, to do absolutely no structural reform in the National Health System. That's the truth. As for compulsory vaccination for health workers and civil servants in contact with a lot of people, we have been insisting since spring last year. Unfortunately, in this effort, we must confess that SYRIZA did not help either, who does not say, cut off the umbilical cord that connects him to the demagoguery. Ladies and gentlemen, today's climate of division and acidification undermines every attempt to bring the tone down and the voices of reason and the voices of science prevail. So what neither the Government nor the Civic Opposition can do, we, the Change Movement. After all, as our new President, Nikos Androulakis, has informed the President of the Republic, we are starting as a Movement of Changed Information campaign to strengthen the vaccination programme. After all, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think that the evidence speaks for themselves and is absolutely indicative. Where vaccination rates are increased, deaths are limited. Portugal, as our new President mentioned in the debate earlier in the Senate, is a characteristic example. So there are nineteen larger units in Portugal, and while they have more cases than we do, they have only fifteen deaths and hundreds of three tubed together on average, when we have ninety-seven deaths and seven hundred people permeated in our country. It is therefore absolutely a national need to break the fear and misinformation that exists. In this effort, we'll be in the front line. As a Movement of Change we will contribute with criticism, proposals and our own initiatives to tackle the pandemic. We're here to help the country. We are here to help society, to help citizens. We won't be sitting here watching the government, which seems to be in a state of misery. That's the word. It's like you're in a state of malady, Minister, and as a result, one of the negative records is unfortunately broken after the other. Yesterday we exceeded the twenty thousand victims. The 'Omicron' comes and the government gives the image of an observer - that is the least we could say - who expects a possible explosion after the holidays. And scientists are decommissioned, Minister. In fact, yesterday we also experienced the complete confirmation of this. The scheduled meeting of the committee was postponed before the Ministerial Council meeting, instead of the committee first meeting and then the Ministerial Council taking the decisions it will take, but on the basis of the scientists' proposals. The government seems to be getting worse. But the ministers say one day, but the other is decided. A lot of arguments are being put forward to support the unfounded, literally, when we have ministers of your government who tell us that the cops are not stuck. Mr. Scorchos didn't say that, Mr. Pleari? Do you remember that? There are very serious contradictions and that is very dangerous. There is a risk that we will reach a point and possibly at critical times on the one hand that the vaccinated will not be persuaded of any necessary measures in the next space and, on the other hand, Mr Minister, the invasive ones and, in particular, the hard core of the anti-vaccinants invoking them as evidence against vaccination. Are you thinking about this? Are you concerned, Minister? Therefore, support for scientists once again, timely decisions, further extension of compulsoryity, quick steps to complete the third dose, strict prevention and control measures. That's what they need, Minister. That's what they need, ladies and gentlemen of the government! We're wasting time, and that's unauthorized. That's what it costs. For many days now, we have been dealing with the fact that the Office of the Prime Minister has received the scientific report from the Members of Parliament. Chiodra - Lytra. Outside ICU mortality increases a percentage of 38.5% from the dead of the second and third waves could have escaped if there were more ICUs and more personnel. That's how this investigation ends. Clearly and perfectly logically, that is, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this report confirms the point. We need more IDs and more staff, more doctors and nurses. We do not expect any study to confirm this. We expect no study to confirm what we all know in the end. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of us simply discussing what is self-evident in this Chamber. It's about what we're doing. That is the big issue, Minister. It is a question of what we are doing as a whole to deal with pandemic. And we now come to today's draft law, another "sweep" bill that is put forward in the pretext of dealing with the pandemic and is running to prevent holidays. It is a bill that comes to confirm the Greek people's conviction that we are now moving to the pandemic without any real plan, without any real plan, completely opportune and totally manual. And this growing concern, the doubts and the distrust of society are becoming more and more established every day. It is clear that this bill contains provisions in which we as a Change Movement are vertically opposed and have strongly expressed our disagreement several times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my secondary speech, Madam President. The derogating provisions on supplies of health and other material that continue the party in health expenditure, exemptions from company capitalisation taxes in associated companies, extensive amendments to the timetable for the implementation of the Patras - Tower National Road without serious processing, changes in the electoral process of OTA collectors only a few days before the elections, on 9 January, are only some of them. The ATT committees are working with changes in compositions, with artificial majorities at the expense of the operation of the collective bodies. Simple municipal administration officials will carry out municipal police duties without special training. Incomprehensible things! Extensions shall be granted with a derogation from a procurement procedure and provision of services to information and communication technologies without accountability, without transparency. Derogations and contracts for posted officials from the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum are being made, which we have seen many times in the past. Golden visa is granted without conditionality check as it appears from Article 140 of the draft law. "Rave-waited" to Efca for the eyes of the world, with the outstanding pensions actually drowning the organization. Minister, we are calling for the immediate withdrawal of all these photographic and totally unacceptable arrangements at the last minute. In a recent poll, citizens' discontent over the management of the coronary pandemic by the government is recorded once again, with 63% declaring displeased, 41% considering that 2022 will be worse than 2021 and 75.4% to judge the so far government measures as insufficient. And what do you guys do about it now? How's your government doing about this? The answer is one: almost nothing. The whole of Europe is on its feet and you are still giving the impression here, in our country, that the pandemic is almost over. Do you remember the "last mile" you were telling us about? Do you remember that, Mr. Pleari? You have forwarded a message of reassurance without addressing them. No vaccination campaign has been carried out, no extension of compulsoryity is being promoted. And you know that we are not in favour of SYRIZA's global originality proposing voluntary compulsoryity. But I wonder what you're really afraid of? Why don't you move on? Why don't you dare? And for all of us known to be subscribed to the ESS, no provision, contingencies and manipulations, with re-expansions of subsidiary and staff movements in order to fill the gaps. The promises to permanentize subsidiary doctors who would give breath of experienced staff to our hospitals were quickly forgotten. The recruitment of four thousand nurses you had announced, judging correctly then that they were necessary, never progressed. Taking into account the fact that about seven thousand unvaccinated sanitary workers remain - and rightly - out of the system then emphatically shows how poor and how unprecedented your design has been to deal with the pandemic. Really, Minister, what did you do with the ITH staff? What have you done? There is a tragedy in which, as we have repeatedly stressed, many gaps are covered by qualified doctors who on one night are forced to move to very high-demand units and work in extremely dangerous, extremely painful conditions. But the question, you know, is not just to seem, to be heard, to say, to have an ICM, but, above all, to act as they should. That's the big deal. According to the OECD Greece has 6,1 doctors and 3,3 nurses per thousand people, when the corresponding average is 3.5 and 8,8. We do not have any nursing staff and our hospitals are struggling every day to cope with inhumane conditions. In another article, commissions shall be extended by way of derogation. A fat million is made available in the name of dealing with the pandemic, but without any control. The same is true of donations, where the regime of overthrows continues. Ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately afraid that the worst is coming. The "Omicon" mutation will soon dominate our country as well. Europe's countries are taking action on one side. We are once again maintaining this climate of tolerance. There is no measure in practice, assembling everywhere, in the streets, bars, churches, there are no measures of social distance in public transport. We, the PASOK, have learned to see people as separate entities, as personal entities and not as just statistics. That is why, Mr Minister, yesterday, you take the necessary steps to deal with and do everything at times we tell you to do, all of which we call on you to do. So, at last, support the ESS and the primary health. Apply control measures and social distance to all places, without asterisks, without exceptions. Correct the issue of public transport. Investment in teleworking, which we are seeing again hesitant. Promote more the vaccination movement. All this is just some of what we tell you and we suggest, just things that we need. But what it takes, mostly, to do all this, do you know what it is? Political will. You don't seem to have any political will. As regards other articles of the bill very soon, I will only say: ‘Legislation continues’. I cannot understand and I wonder what this situation is consistent with your declared position - it was the first thing you said when you took up as a government - for best ways of legislating. That is, I think, a very good question to which you must answer at some point. In the provisions of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which concern the energy market, the clipboard, but "executive" prevails again, otherwise as we have said your energy design. Greece remains and is Europe's most expensive energy country, as we buy electricity 85% more expensive than the average. But do you think of that? Oh, no. You let the average citizen, the average household, the small and medium-sized enterprises strive every day for energy costs and PPC's accounts. In the same spectators work on the Patras - Tower motorway as regards the Ministry of Transport. After two and a half years of your government the project has not yet begun, even at the same time as the estimated cost is increasing. You have also moved on to two hundred changes and of course the very important issues are that you are not giving a solution to the issue of implementation and the rest of the party to Chacona, although I would like to remind you - I am sure you have not forgotten, Minister - that the Prime Minister himself had announced the completion of the project. Why don't you finish it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, you need to close down slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u151	Finally, Articles 95 introduce new amendments to the organisational structure of the multi-faceted and afflicted ECA. Remove organic units, transfer responsibilities, licenses are revoked for sighting. Rave - was drying, while the outstanding pensions remain, and a hundred and fifty thousand are counted until September 2021. I close, Madam President - and thank you for your tolerance - by saying that I can only express my overall disagreement, the overall disagreement of the Change Movement and to express to you my grief, as a whole, both for the way you continue to deal with the pandemic and for the practical samples of your Government's rough and opportunistic legislature. For all these reasons, we are voting against this bill. Happy birthday, happy Christmas to all of us, have the whole world, ladies and gentlemen. Careful!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, my colleague. Ms. Likoli has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what to say now to you in the government. I'll see you around. If anyone listened to them, we'd be happy to tell you, but you're imprisoned. You don't mind. You did the same last year, you do the same this year. Like your recipe is so successful that you don't want to deviate from it at all. Last year - I remind you - you did us a bill like that again - a broom, as you used to say, to leave evidently and protesting, saying that it is not possible to bring such things. And you just passed it over and bring rushphetological and photographic devices unregulated and even post-night, not to say as a lawman that I was looking for the seals to see what time you submitted them. I do not want to open it from the Step of the House, but it is something that we will see, because the press and the process are often protecting the substance. In any case, in the bill - mixer, then, you put all the materials, with your ruffles, the services - for your own children - a few hours before the break of the House for Christmas. The name of the management of this whole situation listens to the pandemic. All you say to the Greek people that you are doing it for the pandemic, fragmented, without any charisma, without beginning, middle and end. We invite you to stop. You've been able to turn deaths into losses. That is what they all call 'loss'. Like she's side by side, like she dropped a bomb somewhere and a man was lost. Oh, no. People have been lost and you know why. The cause is the pandemic for which your government is controlled if he did everything he should. And our President, Nikos Androullakis, said the day before yesterday something very simple, but so substantial, that "your recurring posed a danger to the Greek people". And that is not a political point of view, but it is a responsibility which is being blamed on you and you must respond to it, because we certainly expect you not to take it. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, citizens' confidence in your face is slowly evaporating. The clay sand ends. Citizens realise what you yourself understand, but you too are in a bad position. You can understand that the tolerance period has expired definitively, but continue with stubbornness to teach the margarita: Do it, do not do it. Let me say it, not to say it. Let me move on, do not move on to these measures. Take a step forward and take two steps back. You have never spoken honestly and clearly, with the prestige that a government should see determined, effective and reformative. None of this has been done. Instead, you tried to turn through the engagement from the political cost, to the point of separating professional charges. And listen - listen - you told the Greek people that the uniforms, for example, do not pass the coronary on to others as easily as lawyers, journalists, teachers. How nice! And then you ask yourself, "But why can't we get the Greek people to be vaccinated?" Are you really wondering? He wants a question why? But he doesn't trust you. He doesn't trust a government to tell him that he has this instrument to fight the coronary and the pandemic, and that only in this way can he escape. Your beliefs have won you, your ideas have won you, your comoyanites have won you. I've told you from this step over and over. So why didn't the campaign work? What campaign? What you are saying here, among us, 'because we are doing a campaign targeted and serious, with indicators that are being measured and effective', there is no reason for it to be debated at all. Now, our resignation from the first moment, with responsibility and consistent support for pandemic policy, with concrete measures to support the public health system, by strengthening vaccinations. Obviously, we will vote for all those provisions that help people, people, hospitals, but what are you going to do? For, a total of fifty, almost, we are voting for thirty. The other things are, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Solo genograms all in the leg, with devices, which some of them scare. For example, the provisions of the Ministry of the Interior, for which I was listening before the Ministers. I would remind you that, just last week, the Ministry's bill was passed, why did you not incorporate these articles in this bill, since none of them are directly related to the pandemic so that we can have time to discuss them in detail? Here's a question. Why didn't you tell us then and you're telling us now? Why do you change up to the provisions for collective bodies? Wait a minute. On the 9th of January - for people to understand us - we have antiquities in the organs of municipal and regional councils. And you're changing the framework to the auctions, and you're setting a different framework. You transfer responsibility from the city council to the quality of life. And you do it now, while we were discussing last week's bill of the Ministry of Interior. That's what you're doing. That is what you do and you say why we do not vote on them. You change the electoral process and you say, why, why are you shouting? And retrospectively prolong the possibility of commissioning from the municipalities. Retrospectively, please! Full of darkness, without knowing exactly what we say 'yes' and exactly what we say 'no'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Madam President, by stressing the following: we understand the need for it, where it exists. We cannot understand what you are doing, unprecedented, such as getting their employees out of the brigade and making them become municipal police officers without special training. God and his soul. What you want to do, where you're going, what you've envisioned, we can't understand. We are going to tell you one thing: it is the mid-night amendments that broke your bank. It's a real diversion. Infringement of democratic dialogue, democratic planning, the principles of control and administration's accountability. And so that people can understand what you have done, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have brought draft laws into this bill with new, whole bills, after-night amendments. Well, listen a little. This is a matter of your majority and not of our democracy. And that means that you will be judged and it is no longer the time that all of this will be judged. And I fear that the Greek people's crisis will turn your majority into a large minority. And that for you will be the biggest problem you will have to deal with and, unfortunately, I have the opinion that the damage that will be caused to your own party will be irreparable. Merry Christmas, health and power all over the world. And I hope next year that you will not make all the orders again in this bill to leave protesting or to vote against the after-nights that you bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Katrinis, Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u155	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u156	What can I do, my colleague? He's in charge of a parliamentary group. Shouldn't I give him the floor? What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u157	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u158	What can we do? When the Minister speaks and the parliamentarians ask, we cannot do it differently, you know that. Otherwise, we keep the list the way it should be. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in order to address the major issue of the pandemic which concerns Greek society, since we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Health. I must express the deep concern of all of us and especially the anxiety of the Greek citizens about the dramatic development that the pandemic now receives, with the 'Omicon' mutation going on in reality. Already, the first legs of the virus were detected in Thessaloniki. So the danger is not before the gates, it's already between us. It is not an issue that is being offered either for populism or for political exploitation. For you do not have an irresponsible opposition, as you like to say very easily simply to avoid. Instead, you have the Change Movement, which speaks with arguments, speaks with evidence, speaks with suggestions. Gentlemen of the government, the pressure that your failure to manage the pandemic leads to new mistakes and new refluxes. And, of course, I am referring to the leaks made on Monday to the media and, indeed, with the participation of the Minister of State and the Government representative, on compulsory rapid test, at the expense of citizens, for the New Year's Revenue. As if the only problem is New Year's Revenue, as if the management of the pandemic that has long gone away in our country has been judged, despite the early warnings of scientists from early autumn. So you spoke of compulsory rapid test, so that the Prime Minister himself can come and move on to total retraction - and I use a very diligent expression - by saying that he trusts the maturity of the citizens. In order to trust the government, however, it must also give practical examples of maturity and responsibility at some point. And I am sorry to say that, that is something that has not been done for too long. At the same time, yesterday and today there are strong parafiscalisms about measures to be announced after holidays. In the next few days or hours, of course, I am sure that we will also see ministers who have been present for too long with the infectious, neglected, literally displace specialists. We will see them participating in this parafiscality, intensified confusion and division, and, above all, in cultivating even more distrust among the citizens. What is clear is that the government either does not listen to scientists either has marginalized them or quite simply happens both. And he improvises with tragic results. And not generally speaking, for example, I mention that the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and a member of the Ministry of Health Scientific Committee clearly said yesterday that there was no recommendation from the Committee on Rapid Test to vaccinated and unvaccinated. And I directly ask the government: did the leak on the mandatory rapid test occur upon the recommendation of the committee responsible? Yes or no? The leak was a product of scientific documentation, or was it just a concept of members of the government? Has the committee responsible met before the debate on the rapid test or even before the Prime Minister's announcement of the measures? The questions, of course, ladies and gentlemen, are rhetoric, because once again the government has decided without asking, bypassing the scientists and the committee responsible in an unprecedented way. Both the defiance of the Tsiodra study, as well as of Mr Tsiodra himself, has been made by the government itself and by several government officials. One of the two Ministers of State, who has played a leading role in the recent past with unprecedented statements on a luxurious health system that does not need to be addressed further, in the same provocative way he claimed that it is minor and indifferent - so he said - whether the Prime Minister knew about the Tsiodra study. So when the government itself works, downgrades and marginalizes scientists, who do you expect citizens to believe? Do you not understand, even now, whether or not at the expense of this data, the extent of the damage you have caused? Don't you realize, with over twenty thousand dead and hard to be in front of us and not behind us, that you should, even now, change your tactics? Gentlemen of the government majority, it is time to get together, it is time to get serious, it is time at last to assume your responsibilities. Your obvious embarrassment is clearly harming the country. It is absolutely necessary to avoid a disastrous lockdown for both society and the economy. I told you at the beginning of my speech. On the contrary, you do not have an irresponsible opposition. We are prepared to discuss openly, clearly necessary decisions as difficult and strict as they are, but on one condition, only: to recommend and propose the special committee of scientists and not your own product, of tactics or strategies which are, in the end, disqualified and failed. Clearly, therefore, and because all these difficulties, all these things backwards are tired and have not worked so far, we must speak, even now, of a series of interventions that need to be made. To extend compulsory vaccination to specific categories of occupations. We have said this a long time ago, we have said it since the beginning of the pandemic. This debate has been frozen on your own responsibility. To return and widen compulsory teleworking in the public and private sectors until at least pandemic is managed. To apply the measure of using a high protection mask in enclosed areas such as, for example, public transport or even supermarkets. And in many other closed spaces. For example, I mention these two. To move on even now - it has been mentioned by all the colleagues in the Change Movement - to the real, substantial reinforcement of the public health system, both in infrastructure and in qualified personnel. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the government, incorporate health workers into the public health system into the heavy and unhealthy professions and start a serious debate on wage adjustment. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), in writing. - (FR) The Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party has tabled a motion for a resolution for a resolution on the situation in the former Yugoslavia. Close the "holes" that exist and facilitate the spreading of the virus. And I'm talking about areas where citizens are confronted. At least look at what happens in the other European countries in similar cases. What are you waiting for? The fatality? And maybe the most important thing. Gather your ministers who represent the infectious and confusing public opinion and problems in the efforts of the scientists, both in the vaccination campaign and in the measures against pandemic. Scientists must finally get out front. They must talk to the citizens and not the ministers. We must listen to them and they must at last listen to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are not just managing a political cost, but life and security of citizens. And the management of the pandemic is not only a part of your electoral planning, but a painful reality for the country, a painful reality that is experienced by thousands of our fellow citizens. You are and we are all responsible for every life that is lost, for every life that is endangered as long as we do not proceed to immediate solutions. We are here with concrete proposals. We don't ask you for elections with a hundred dead a day and the pandemic moving out of control. We ask you to think responsible and serious about the citizens at last. We ask you to make decisions that protect human life and guarantee the implementation of these decisions. Otherwise, you will bear sole responsibility if you continue the same tactic of indifference, contradictions, devaluation of risk, but unfortunately also of irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. Now the Minister for the Environment has the floor for three minutes, Mr Screkas, to put it on an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to mention very quickly to my fellow Members that we are tabling an amendment number 1183 and a special 199, which concerns the following. In Article 2, the extension of a deadline for the submission of an application for authorisation to operate tourist ports. The proposed regulation extends until 31/12/2022 the deadline for the submission of applications for authorisation of tourist ports in order to allow operators to submit the relevant applications, taking into account the Coronovirus pandemic, to make it possible to apply for authorisation in 2022. Article 7 refers to extending the scope of the Energy Transfer Fund. You know that since September we have set up the Energy Transfer Fund, where we have funds from the auctions on greenhouse gas emissions. These resources are directed to support those who are most affected by explosive increases in electricity prices. We extend the scope so that we can support the agricultural invoice announced by the Prime Minister a few days ago. Article 8 refers to the procedure for the adoption of a rated application plan. It provides that this process can also be initiated by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, but also by the municipality concerned, so that citizens can have access to it much faster. It is, of course, about the fire-fighting areas of Nea Makris, Rafina, Marathon and Pickermi, with the aim of facilitating both the design and the citizens of the owners to submit statements of ownership. Article 9 concerns the installation of electrical appliances and the extension of electrical installations to public areas. It is about a problem that started from Thessaloniki where many health-care stores have installed electric heaters abroad. We are therefore able, by means of a procedure which ensures the safety of the installations, to be able to operate in an area outside the shop because it was not foreseen until now. In Article 10 we recommend a Central Building Agency. This is a part of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which will deal with construction work carried out in the context of strategic investments, so that we can accelerate these investments. Finally, in Article 11, we define forty organic posts in the Greek office, which is responsible for the authorisation of the Greek, in order to speed up the licensing of the projects to be carried out. I also want to mention a legal addition to paragraph 4 of Article 73 of the draft law. In particular, in the last paragraph of Article 62 of Law 4495, the time limit, i.e. the certificate of engineers issued for the issue of the electronic building, is extended for one month until the end of January. Thus, we will be aligned with the extension given by the Ministry of Finance to enable transfers to be made with the provisions of the Ministry of Finance in terms of objective values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now and immediately after Mrs Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u163	Madam President, we wait two hours to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u164	You're right about today. We are, however, trying to sort out the list and the changes that are taking place with the ministers who come and the parliamentary representatives who are calling for the floor in the intervening period. You're absolutely right. Today, you see, we do not always hold what we hold, two or three Members and immediately after one Minister or Parliamentary representative. But today we can't, because you see what's going on. We have to finish one after the other so the ministers can leave. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Katrinis, the head of the Change Movement, has left. I continue with the four words with which he closed his speech, be careful, addressing the government for this bill, the last bill of the year. And I believe that Mr Katrinis also expresses the new leader of the Change Movement and the parliamentary group. So Mr Katrinis said about the government: 'A government of total indifference, a government of incompetence, contradiction and irresponsibility'. Otherwise, he wants to "stop" the Change Movement. In what? With such assumptions about the government's functioning during this difficult period, during this unprecedented period, with this dual crisis, energy and health, what back will the Change Movement put in and in what way? This bill contains critical and important provisions, as explained by the Minister of Health Mr. Ploris and all the ministers who came. And I'll explain why the bill is in this form. And quite rightly, Mrs Brysidou, our rapporteur, has fully documented the provisions of the bill. How will the Change Movement - I don't understand - back when he doesn't vote for this bill? Theoretically, if this bill is not passed, if we go to this case, namely that the bill is not passed, as of 1 January, and then we will have huge health problems first and foremost, and I think we all want positive health benefits well. Nothing's gonna work. Is this the movement's responsible attitude with such expressions to the government? But I also welcome the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Xanthos, who is absent, and I want to be honest because I am trying to speed up the position of those who have the central responsibility for the recommendations. Mr. Xanthos spoke of a national front facing the pandemic in a mixed, quality, structured and polite way from a parliamentary step. So it was his placement, so I appreciated it. Take note, however, at the same time as Mr Blonde, Mr Igoumenides, the rapporteur of SYRIZA, said: 'In the zero effort that the government has made over this entire period...'. You said the word zero, Mr. Igoumenides, three times. And it goes on: "... we don't put back on." So where's your proposal? Be careful to see, well-meaningly I accept that you want to contribute and help with welcome suggestions, but make them listen to them. At the same time, however, has nothing good been done by this government? Nothing? "Zero", as you said? Three times you said the word zero. ‘Zone, zero, zero’. So, in the two and a half years that New Democracy has been running, no work? Nothing's done? You are not putting your back on zero work, you said, and you are the rapporteur. So, I understand that your position is the central suggestion of SYRIZA towards the government. That's not how you're building the understandings you're saying. This is not the way to build the positive initiatives that we need to develop at this critical time of pandemic. I agree with you, and I am concerned with you, as we are all concerned, first and foremost as Members of the Greek Parliament, but also as citizens for what is coming and for 'Omicon' and for what we have been through. The Minister for Health, Mr. Ploris, has, respectively, made a very well-organised and good speech, which includes the framework of the needs of the Ministry of Health in this bill. He developed in his speech two areas that were necessary for the public debate we are having. The first part concerns what we did as both the government and the ITH, and the recruitment of doctors and hospital staff, what has happened in this time of pandemic with the government and the Ministry of Health. He has demonstrated with evidence that the government - which does not claim the perfect, because the enemy of good is always the best - has taken very important steps in social health, in public health and especially in the pandemic period. On the other hand, he presented in the bill the critical provisions that exist and it is necessary to vote. For example, there is no need for the provision made by the Minister for Health, Mr Ploris, and I am pleased that the SYRIZA side, if I am not mistaken, said that it was in agreement, but that we were delayed, okay, must make a review of the legal immunity of health doctors and doctors in the health system. We all agree. Will you vote for it or won't you vote for it? Is it not critical and important that the provision for the medical treatment of all low pensioners who have lost their NSA and who will receive their medicine free of charge? Is it or isn't it important? Will you vote for it or will you not vote for it? Is it not important to support the world of tourism and culture, Mrs Ignastopoulou, with the responsible declarations of the unilateral nature to get insurance and money from this world that needs them? Will you vote for it or won't you vote for it? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I am returning to the main criticism of the bill, a 'quark' bill, a 'gender' bill. It's not like that. To come to an understanding, it's not like that. You know very well, and many from both SYRIZA and from KINAL with previous parliamentary experience, that the last bill of the year, such as this one, is compulsory to include in and amendments to several of the ministries, because the legislative environment of our country has the need to change dates and to keep them in order not to have from January 1st that time changes in the administration of the state every time. That is why you see all ministries being here with extensions, especially, to issues relating to the administration of the state. So it is not something that we are seeing for the first time and it is hypocritical for you to criticise the last bill of the year, which has always been and will have the character of supplementary provisions, with amendments of this kind. The additional element I have to submit is this because it is worth freshening some things in our memory. The criticism that has been heard today by Members, in particular the Vice-Population, has been a criticism of every science. It reminded me of the debate we had on the budget. Environmental criticism, criticism of shipping, health criticism, criticism of the economy, criticism of social cohesion. Everywhere critical, there is a declaratory reason for credentials, without suggestions once again. The Bank of Greece's mid-term monetary policy report was published just now - so to see the positive side of things - which contradicts the budget we discussed just two days ago. He disproves him in the sense that he anticipates more improved data. For example, the growth we made in the budget for 2021 and voted with 6.9% of GDP, will be at 8% of GDP. In other words, more than one unit of growth in the country's GDP for 2021. For 2022, the 4.5% vote for growth will be 5% according to the Bank of Greece and 3% for 2023 will be 3.9%. So here is the positive side that we need to highlight in order to also send an optimistic message. I am not talking about this in detail, ladies and gentlemen, and I have said it in my budget. I talked about social cohesion, about the minimum guaranteed income, which is the electronic shield of our country's weakest ones created in 2013, about 'ERGANI 1', '2' and '3', about the prospect to be opened for 'ERGAN', which comes to shield the labour market and protect workers, who hit undeclared work at the root. "ERGAN 2", which is the electronic hour, will hit the supposed job root and the insurance contributions will be secured by "ERGANI" 3, which will come as a next step. All this, along with the degression of unemployment, shows something. They're showing that it's not all black as you describe it. They show that this government has done a job. Because these figures and figures which I quote are not arbitrary. They are data from the official authorities of the State. They are the elements of the State Accounting Office, the Hellenic Statistical Authority and at the end of the process with these elements you are unscathed to draw a conclusion that work, social, health, economic, developmental, has been produced through which these positive elements have come for the economy. Is that evidence that you're questioning? Do you question the development and social convergence that exists with the improvement of the indicators presented by both ELSTAT and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance? They are undeniable elements that show the country's positive course. One question arises within one time, as we say: consider with this dynamic of our national economy, the growth potential that has been created, not to face the health crisis on the one hand, and, on the other, the energy crisis, how it would have gone, what speed our country would have gone ahead. In any case, however, the New Democracy has proved that when and whenever it undertakes difficult national missions it is ready to deal with them, as it does now. And he treats it nationally, resolutely, bravely, without compromising political costs. We are doing this once again, at a difficult time for our country, for our country. Because this double threat of the health and energy crisis, which is unprecedented and on a global scale extensive, is an element which is not dealt with by a legislative environment that we have predetermined, is uncharacterised and we are obliged to legislate at intervals so that, by assessing pandemic or the crisis, we return and take measures in favour of society and the citizens. Conclusion: The bill we are debating today is the last bill of 2021 for the government. It is a bill full of amendments, not of bad legislation, but of the need for the administrative continuation of the state to complete and add provisions at the outset. Secondly, in the health context, the Minister for Health mentioned the comparative elements of the past, and showed consensus. I listened carefully to him saying that 'I am here to listen to proposals', which can be adopted. The New Democracy was, is and will always be in the spirit of national understanding. This is the character and aweless core of the New Democracy, national understanding at all levels. And because we have a health problem at that level too. That's what the Minister of Health said. 'Present proposals'. But it's not all black. It is not 'zero', as the SYRIZA rapporteur said. It's not "zero, zero, zero, and I don't put my back on." That's not how you build the consensuals. So, at this difficult time, with this bill, we are coming to close this year, Mr Consola, a really difficult year. I know that you too, from your region, the Dodecanese, are giving a hard race to an island region. We have in front of us challenges, such as reduced VAT, which the government has negotiated to restore, and it is our goal to bring it back, and in practice, the reduced lost VAT, which was lost in 2015, unfortunately. These challenges are open to us. It's the last bill from a number of many bills. I had named them in my speech in the budget for "population reforms", by the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Shipping, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Everywhere reform. We built national agreements, shielded our country bravely with the Rafahs, and the new frigates are coming too. All of this has one single goal, the best day for our country, Greece and the Greeks. I hope and believe in the next year, which seems difficult in the sense of the 'Omicon' mutation, to be a year that will be the last to face a health crisis, to be a year positive for our country, with a positive sign for all Greece, for all Greeks. Be well! Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, after so many hours, let's take the floor for the Members too. It has nothing to do with you, Mr. Brutsi. I protested to everyone else and to Mr Blonde, even to Mr Katrin. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, said that the New Democracy - and this is in its culture - needs national consultation. Only for the New Democracy - and this is in its culture, you will allow me to say - national understanding is'follow what I do, because, if you do not follow it, you do not want national consensus and you divide'. Many times, since the beginning of the pandemic and SYRIZA, the Civic Opposition and the other opposition parties have tabled concrete proposals. I don't have time to list them. Just to tell about the systematic traceability, the free tests, the vaccinations then. Mr. Tsipras was one of this step that first spoke about the lifting of patents, and he also wanted to show the enormous importance of vaccinations. What was the Prime Minister's answer? A pain in the ass. Even a few days ago, Mr. Tsipras had proposed to Mr. Mitsotakis from this again here, the Step of the House, to come out together - and he meant the parties - to convince our fellow citizens to be vaccinated. Fighting again on Mr. Mitsotakis' side. And we reach the last episode, the big episode of December 1st. While the doctors of the ESS are shouting, everyone, the Prime Minister, knowing, aware of a serious study, of which one of the two scholars is his close associate, Mr. Tsiodras, not only dismisses the knowledge of the study, but also struggling in the face again with the Chief of Officerial Response, saying: "Are you studying to show us?" And retrospectively he comes to the House, to the budget, and does not ask for a single apology, not from the Opposition, but from the Greek people. And what did he say? He said: "I didn't need any scientific study to be able to strengthen the ICMs." There is a problem of arrogance and cynicism and I have seen it today, not by Mr Brutsi but by the Members of the New Democracy who have also spoken of the Minister for Health. An entire bottom-up against Officer Opposition and there's no elementary self-criticism that something went wrong. When a country has twenty thousand fifty-five dead right now when we're talking, something's wrong. If we want the government and the entire political system to have the confidence of society, it must explain what has gone wrong. Doctors say it all the time, scientists. Leave the Opposition. Don't you hear that? And you come here with a great deal of cynicism and arrogantness, and Mr Gerapitris comes out, which I consider to be a major political atrocity, in the debate on the budget to answer Mr. Tsipras, the Chief of Officerial Response, in a style that is inconsistent with a Minister, is not in line with the criticality of the moments, to identify the Civic Opposition with the "the guardians of the Constitution"? Do you agree? Do you agree? I believe that what Mr Gerapetti has done and should be called upon to withdraw. What we see in this bill, and it is very important, is this ideological commitment of the government to certain things, on some lines of which - the world is not going to burn - it does not go in inch from the side. That's why he can't hear the voice of the Opposition, neither the Officer nor the Elassian Opposition, nor anyone's voice. And what do I mean by that? Do you want a deal? Here we go. Accept the amendment tabled by SYRIZA for uninsured persons. Is it possible in the middle of a pandemic to change the context, this flagship law, the SYRIZA provision for the two and a half million uninsured and now to change it again, taking responsibility for what medicine and what tests? Do you want a deal? All the opposition has said so to you: make the provision, the amendment to SYRIZA acceptable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like two minutes. Secondly, there is a continuing ideology, because you do not want to strengthen the ESS. Quarterly contracts in everything, like the pandemic ends tomorrow. You do not take into account what the World Health Organisation says. Leave even our own doctors you don't count on, but what does the World Health Organisation say? And ask a question about the most oppressed body and less paid: In these hospitals, apart from doctors, nurses, it is cleaning staff. Does it not cover standing and constant needs? Why again a three-month contract? Why has the Minister secretly commanded the hospital managers that, shortly afterward, contractors will come? Because that's what this is about. And here's the idealism: Now that we need them, we can't kick them out and people sit in hostage. For example, because Mr Brutsis has also caused me for culture, we have a Minister of Culture who hates culture. We've got tons of evidence now. But is there a provision, Article 133, which in the second part of what it does? It flies in the midst of a pandemic, energy crisis and a great crisis of precision fourteen people on the road, while covering fixed and lasting needs. While these people have been working for eighteen years at the Athens and Epidaurus Festival Organization, they are being thrown on the road. Do you want a deal? The 25th amendment on this issue has been tabled by the Commission. We support it. Accept it, too. That is the way to reach agreement in practice. It is not theoretical in the air, as the national leader says, and it follows from the backs of the whole world. I will not say about trade union suffocation and culture. I won't mention all this. You will only allow me to speak because I have heard a majority MEP rejoice. And that's where the idea is. Patras-Pyrgos: It is a road that has cost hundreds of dead, a road that has stopped since 2019 and will now begin again by direct assignment. And how much does that cost to the public extra? EUR 114 million! It gives 8 million in compensation to contractors, increasing the profit of concessionary supergas by giving tolls from Corinth to Tower itself. Is that a consultation? Can we consent to such things? The limits between a progressive and conservative front are already in place, and you must keep this in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, my colleague. I will now give the floor for five minutes to the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Economou, to be placed on an amendment, and immediately after the speech the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Villardos will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today before the Greek Parliament in the context of a debate on the latest government legislative initiative for this year on measures necessary to tackle the pandemic of COVID-19 and on the protection of public health, as well as on the regulation of a number of other issues aimed at the proper functioning of bodies and general government in the context of this unprecedented health crisis. A number of important issues are therefore dealt with under the current draft law of the Ministry of Health, with a view to more effective implementation of the mission of the services of the Ministry of Civil Protection. This legislative initiative concerns Articles 142 and 143 of the draft law and Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would like to make a statement on this matter. With Article 142 we are attempting substantial improvements to the existing provisions of Article 44 of the legislative act, as ratified and validated today, so that this provision of the legislature will become more flexible and functional on the basis of the highly increased service needs of renewal of the instruments available to the Security Councils for the fulfilment of their mission. The article at issue expires on 31/12-2021, when it is given through the current government's extension until 31/12-2022. The scope of the original forecasts is also widened, time limits are shortened and the committee is simplified to make them more flexible and operational. There is now a wider range of possibilities for integrating and exploiting instruments and materials, which are kept by the authorities of the Security Councils because of the non-enterprise of their masters to receive them. These instruments and materials, once appropriate for service use, will henceforth be able to be integrated into appropriate institutionalised procedures for use by the Security Body. Article 143 provides for the possibility of extending the cleaning contracts concluded by the services of the Greek Police to cover cleaning needs until the completion of the relevant competitive procedures which have not yet been completed as a result of the pandemic. This is a regulation of absolute necessity which ensures the uninterrupted provision of cleanliness services at a very timely time with the health threat still present and the need to respect the necessary hygiene measures in police services absolutely imperative where daily police personnel and citizens coexist. As regards Articles 2 and 3 of the above-mentioned Ministerial Amendment, I would like to make the following points: With regard to Article 2 and the renewal of the fixed-term private-law contracts of staff of the IORC Preservation Department serving in the penitentiary shops, this is the last act of a confessed long-term trial period for the candidates of 6K/2018, which, by means of coordinated actions between the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Interior, is almost complete. The adoption of the final tables and hence the remaining other administrative procedures will be completed in the first few months of 2022, when these contractual workers will be permanently integrated into the permanent capacity of the officials in the detention stores of the country. So today's initiative is moving right in the context of this government planning by ensuring that these workers are present in their jobs until final tables are issued and then the proper and secure functioning of our country's penitentiary structures. I will conclude my comments on the articles under discussion by the Ministry of Civil Protection under Article 3 of the above-mentioned Ministerial Amendment, which aims, on the one hand, to ensure the proper functioning and operational capacity of the services of the Greek Police, on the other hand, to safeguard the validity of the services of the Ministry and the Greek State as a whole towards private sector providers and also international organisations. To this end, it is possible to extend the advance payment orders issued this year and which, due to adequate and substantial difficulties due to the comitology of the coronary were delayed, because the health conditions made it difficult for suppliers to respond to their obligations within the prescribed deadlines. In this way, a strong signal is given to private bodies and international organisations, both supplyers of goods and services, that the Greek state ensures the validity and reliability of these procedures, and that it is designed to ensure that the state budget is properly implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my intervention in the debate on the draft law under consideration by the Ministry of Health, I would like to stress the following. As the curtain falls in 2021, the Ministry of Civil Protection has shown during a difficult confession year for all that well-designed, targeted legislative initiatives are a structural feature of today's government. Our planning has nothing to do with it, but it is the result of an integrated policy aimed at treating and resolving weaknesses and malfunctions that have been considered with due attention. So with governmental consistency, we are also attempting today a chain of positive choices aimed at providing the necessary functional adequacy to the structures and services of the Ministry of Civil Protection. So all of us are important. On this basis, we call on the Ministry of Civil Protection to trust and support Parliament in the abovementioned provisions. I hope Merry Christmas, that the new time will be happy and that there will be progress and prosperity in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law, which distinguishes it, is the drawback of amendments accompanying it at the last meeting of the year, several of which are either suspicious or problematic, without giving the necessary time to examine them. For example, the convention on the construction of the Patra-Tower road which could and should be part of a separate bill of the Ministry of Finance, as was the case with the northern part of the E65 of TERNA in whose debate the Prime Minister was present, how much more so when he takes over sixty pages, from sixty to thirty percent, without even having all the information required with different parameters than those discussed in the committee last year and which we will be tabling about the Minutes. Isn't it scandalous? Does it not make sense to assume that any attempt is being made to cover, if necessary, the failure of last year's promise by the Minister of Infrastructure that the European Union would take up 85% of the cost? We asked the committees, of course, but we did not get any answers at all. In any case, only 44 articles in total 147 concern the Ministry of Health. So this is an unacceptable approach that tends to turn into a morbid normality on the part of a truly failed and dangerous government. If we were to be opposed here by the Minister, claiming that this was also the case by the previous governments of the memorandums - which are continuing as confirmed by the Deputy Minister of Finance last year - we would all have told him that we would never accept the degradation of democracy and of Parliament, while no one is convinced of force majeure because of pandemic, everything because of pandemic! It is also unacceptable to continue the tactics of the memorials on the pretext of pandemic, and we have no intention of compromiseing with the extreme right - in many cases - his policy of deciding and ordering the government of a literally monarch Prime Minister. In addition, we will not allow the Greeks to be disoriented by unprecedented mismanagement of both the economy, where 43 billion euros were wasted in just two years' time with borrowers, which has never happened to date, as is, of course, the case of the Chiodra study which incriminates the state for thousands of civilian deaths. Continuing to the draft health legislation, the rapporteur has covered them, not least with proposals, extensions to the measures of the pandemic - as we had anticipated - since only the government thought that it would end in ninety days on the basis of its three-month deadlines which are still in place today, possibly also in order to keep the population in a state of fear and prolonged shock, so as to manipulate it more easily, to deprive him of freedoms and also to legitimise the derogating legislation. If, of course, a recent survey of 33% in New Democracy and 15% in PASOK, the twin of destruction, PSI and Memorandums with a total debt of around 650 million euros, together with both parties, is in place! This would mean that, on the one hand, the Greeks are being completely manipulated, on the other hand, that nothing has been learned from the collapse and, literally, the grievance of their country. Especially with regard to Article 30, which deals with the qualification of special hospital equipment, the main problem of hospitals is not the lack of machinery but the lack of personnel, as was expected after the departure of six hundred and fifty thousand Greeks abroad to survive the memoranda of which thousands of doctors and nurses. It is another reason why we are unable to understand that there are still Greeks who support our country's condemnation of the Memorandum for no reason and with full funds - between EUR 25 billion and EUR 40 billion - we have had in our funds, as proved by the IMF - because it is not possible to realise the enormous catastrophe caused by the Memorandums everywhere. The public debt was launched at 234% of our GDP from 127% then despite the sale. Red private debt has exceeded 250 billion from previously negligible. They've mortgaged everything. We have had English law imposed on our bonds, Mr President. And only with Brain Drain left Greek training costs of more than 100 billion euros and annual GDP over 30 billion euros, which will never return as the government chaos continues. The lack of personnel, therefore, which has deteriorated with the suspensions of the seven thousand uninvasive health and not the lack of machinery is the problem, which is evidenced by the fact that some ICUs did not work like Mrs Angelopoulos, while others are in trouble according to Mr Chiodra's study, which the Prime Minister did not even see and were not even submitted to Maximos! If that's possible! Despite the extensions, of course, to equipment or staff in Articles 3 to 5 and 12 to 15, the Government is doing little to strengthen the ERC. As can be seen from the evidence of another injurious budget that is already in the trash. It's the third injurious budget. Most extensions, after all, have not even been accounted for by the General Accounting Office of the State. He's used to it, it's not costing anything. It only states that they will be covered by the appropriations for the already injurious - we are stressing the injurious! - a budget of 2022. With the planned funds, however, and on the basis of 2021, although it was inadequate for the IFs and the ESS, it will be covered at most in the first semester - here we will be and we will see - and it seems that the government is prone to the end of the pandemic in March, judging, among other things, by the agreement on the sale of tourist packages by the German 'TUI'. With regard to the acceptance of donations, Article 35 on health and 145 on civil protection must be recalled that the scandalous contracts with PALANTIR and CISCO have been awarded personal data with regard to supposedly free telecommunications and pandemic monitoring services. Something similar happened with the famous donation of Saudi Arabia's 10 million to the Director-General of the vaccination programme, as we will submit to the Minutes later all together. We hope that the donations to civil protection, the logging of the burnt people in northern Evia, will not be related to the promotion of German wind turbines, supposedly to find work for the firemen in our national manufacturer. From a government that works, of course, in the middle of the domestic oligarchy and the Germans, everything can be expected. We remind you of the incredible nonsense - indeed incredible nonsense! - of the concession of our fourteen airports to the German 'FRAPORT' just EUR 1.2 billion for for forty years, when the company alone gave EUR 7.25 billion, in other words, over six times for twenty-five years and not for forty. If it is possible to be considered so foolish even when compared with the Turks. It's a disgrace to us! The same applies also to the sale of OTE to the Germans, which we would allegedly enjoy cheaper services, so that today the Greeks' access to the internet is 73% more expensive than the European Union average in 2020, which even increased compared to 2019. Further to Article 62, once again, it promotes the concession of ayalos, here for public areas, on the grounds that they are functionally linked to a project. With Articles 66 to 71, we do not have new energy regulations. In particular, Article 70 introduces the scandalous promotion of photovoltaics in Megalopolis and Kozani, despite having been rejected, while it is an area with low sunshine characteristics. On the occasion of Article 72, the demand of our farmers - indeed the demand of our farmers - is to abolish the green charge on diesel imposed on them by Mr Hatzidakis, since it is unacceptable when energy prices have been lifted up in the record of EUR 416 today per kilowatts. It's a huge increase. Also, the prices of fertilisers, feeds, irrigation services from TWG and GFCF, thus jeopardising water supply, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, etc. By continuing with Articles 79 to 81, why are the PSO services of the Italian TRAINOSE extended for two months in 2022 at a cost of EUR 10,4 million, according to the General Accounting Office of the State? Even worse why I would like to pay the Italians EUR 50 million annually for 15 years remind me - in total EUR 750 million when we sold the trains only EUR 45 million - when there is a problem in the execution of PSO routes while our railway network is literally in a state of abandonment? About Article 82, which deals with the Patras-Pyrgos road, a story dating back to 2007, with the contract submitted to Parliament last year the total budget was EUR 310 million in total with VAT, while the project would be construction in 2023. The concession period was initially for thirty years and the current vaccine article extends for three more years with the benefit of the manufacturer apparently and with the loss of the public. Unprofitable truth? Why would the government agree to provide a guaranteed yield of 10.25% - today, at zero rates, guarantees a yield of 10.25% - to the concessionaire, which is shown on page 79 at 221? Isn't that unacceptable? At present, however, the budget amounts to EUR 333 million with the participation of the public at 216,6 billion, while the rest is for Olympia, in which the 'TERNA' also participates. Will the European Union take 85% of public participation, as the Minister had assured us last year, or will it be charged with the entire amount of public participation? He's here, and he needs to answer. If, yes, is it or is it not the government's fault? If we accept that there was a problem with contractors, why not replace the contractor, as elsewhere, but new assignment by PPP? Isn't it a suspect? We don't think so, do we? There are, of course, many other questions, but there should be a committee with the Minister responsible so that we can discuss them in detail and get the right answers, otherwise it would be a deliberate method. It'll show. We will not, of course, vote against the article because it is a dangerous road that must be built immediately - tens of people have died - but we denounce the whole process, which is literally unacceptable. Furthermore, in various other articles, 46 gives a reasonable prolongation of the reduced rate of VAT on personal hygiene and protection. It is not reasonable, however, that, if not challenging, the reduction is extended for the introduction of objects of art, collections and antiquities for which there is certainly no reason. It's not the pandemic. On the other hand, VAT is not being reduced to the first-needed and energy, despite the rapid rise in their prices, as we have repeatedly demanded, without any cost to the public - we are never making any proposals that have public costs - since at the highest prices it receives more money from the VAT that does not belong to it, it is not entitled to them while inflation is being fed at the same time, which is certainly not transient at all, as it has already been seen. In Article 50 now, we do not agree with the connection between electronic transactions and tax evasion and duty-free especially of low incomes, how far along the lines of the pandemic that electronic transactions have developed and do not need support, but mainly because they are unacceptable to tax incentives, such as rent. We've said it a dozen times. On the other hand, it is clearly a gift to the left-wing banks that cost us tens of billions of euros, while charging the highest commissions in Europe and donating almost no loans to Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, literally strangling our economy. In the ninth month, the net revenue of banks from commissions must have exceeded EUR 1 billion, as we will deposit in the Minutes - EUR 1 billion only from commissions - having doubled in relation to the pandemic since 2019 was estimated at EUR 400 million. 400 million in 2019, a billion today in nine months. With such exquisite revenues, why take the risk of loans? How much more so when for the pandemic loans for both "HRAKLIS" they have public guarantees. Do they have any reason? It is absurd, therefore, that the government still wants to support them unless it is blackmailed by the 350 million that the party owes, the New Democracy. Nobody knows. Furthermore, Articles 118 and 119 provide for arrangements for the famous investments of multinationals, such as 'MICROSOT' or 'AMAZON', which are of little importance in terms of employment and taxation. However, these companies look forward to profitable contracts through the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF - they did not come at random - which impose large digitisation packages due to the requirements of the European Union. Mr Pierracakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition placed them at EUR 6 billion, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. How can they not praise him? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As far as Article 142 is concerned, we have first proposed using materials rotting in the public and customs warehouses, but on the grounds that the three months which are given as a deadline following the owner's notification of their confiscation are few. Finally, Articles 139 and 141 provide for the derogating renting of parcels for hot spots of illegal immigrants, hoping that it is not the reproach of TERNA in the sensitive region of Evros. In conclusion, it is clear that while the change in our country's property regime is under way with the sale of public property and the auctioning of private property, the government continues the same failed policy by promoting public works that usually breed corruption - we all know it - with the waste of money for non-productive purposes - EUR 41 billion - and so on. Unfortunately, it seems that he is not at all interested in the creation of wealth for the well-being of the Greeks, but only in the predominance of power, like all the governments of the last decades, resulting in the conversion of our rich country into a German debt colony, as well as its deprivation from the domestic oligarchy. We must not forget it. So it is not just an inadequate government but also a dangerous government, which is the sooner it leaves for Greece. Thank you very much, wishing everyone a merry Christmas with health and happiness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Merry Christmas! Good evening. Wait a minute, let me tell you the order that I found from Mrs Sakorafa. Now I will give the floor for five minutes to the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u173	And less, for a minute, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u174	And less, even better. Then Mr. Xanthopoulou will speak, then the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, then Mr. Maraveyas. The Minister for Rural Development will follow, then Mr.Ioannis Loverdos, the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr. Karamanlis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, who also requested all his time and then Mr. Andreas Loverdes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, is there any provision for what sort of time will be over?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u176	Approximately 22.00 p.m. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u177	I will be much shorter than the five minutes you give me, Mr President, I will not need two. I therefore take the floor, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendment under number 1184 and number 180 and, of course, to recommend to the House that I vote in favour. The amendment concerns a provision entitled ‘Extension of supervision of the Construction Cooperative of Permanent Officials of the Hellenic Army (OMAPS) from the Ministry of National Defence’. As I assume you are already aware, the provision seeks to extend the supervision of UCLAF by the Ministry of National Defence for another calendar year, i.e. until 31-12-2022, in order to resolve certain management and financial issues before the Agency returns its supervision to the Ministry of Finance. With the proposed regulation, it is therefore considered that we have an appropriate period of time to settle and initiate procedures for the settlement of as many outstanding issues as possible, the most important of which has to do with the completion of the water networks by the municipalities, which is expected to take place in the next year, in 2022. In addition, in the process already initiated to compare the National Stock Exchange numbers for the properties to be found in the Municipality of Locres, some of them belong to the State and some to private individuals. Therefore, for the completion of the procedure, these cases must first be resolved for all sites. The spaces have to do with indisposed plots, public spaces, land outside plan, roads, renegotiated properties and others. The time interval for the completion of the set-up cannot be easily determined. It is extremely likely that some of these cases will also be brought to justice to resolve. There will be trials. It will therefore need to be extended in time. The proposed regulation ensures this one-year extension. We believe that this will probably be enough in view of all that I ask this House to vote in favour of this interoperable amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Merry Christmas! And now Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and to correct that Mr Lebanon, the Minister for Digital Governance, will speak after Mr Maraveya. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. It is the last bill discussed by the National Representation and may be a sign of this debate, because the bill concerns the health sector. At a time when, unfortunately, the dead are over twenty thousand, the vaccination programme is not going as well as we would like, the recurring government with the rapid test to everyone and the withdrawal of this initial choice is a numb sign of the necessary vaccinations. The Tsiodra - Lytra study shows the limits of government and prime ministeral insufficiency and the government is trying at the end of the year with a bill, which extends to many areas, to treat individual health issues. First of all, I should like to make a general remark, drawing the text from the Scientific Service of Parliament. It says, therefore, that even in exceptional circumstances, the conditions of Law 4412/2006 on public procurement must be taken into account, even if, in exceptional circumstances, the general principles governing the conclusion of public contracts, in particular the principles of transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination, must be taken into account. And this is a bell as discreetly as the Committee of Parliament can remind the government that the bill you are bringing finds such irregularities and irregularities. I would like to make a pivotal point and ask the government to respond explicitly. Is the extension of the scheme for the availability of health for another three months followed by the suspension of payments, the non-calculation in pension years, in the background of what is involved, the dismissal? So, we're going to live this too, citizens, civil servants will be fired after successive periods of availability? It is a major issue, which is due to a clear answer, because the fundamental rights of workers under the pretext of pandemic are being circumvented. I am impressed, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, by the way in which the National Representation discusses this bill. It has about one hundred and fifty articles, and without exaggeration about forty articles they are an amendment articles. You realise that this is far too far away from what we call 'the principle of good legislature'. So I am going to turn to the individual provisions, and I am going to make some brief references, because I think that our rapporteur, of course, and also the parliamentary representative, who I have the luck of replacing, and also the other members of the SYRIZA, have been sufficiently analysed. I would therefore like to highlight some contradictions and weaknesses in the draft legislation under discussion. Amid the murderous four-wave wave of pandemic, the 'Omicon' variant before the gates and the downward trend, as I said, in vaccinations, compared to an initial increase in early December, when the mandatoryity was imposed on the over sixty, the government only proposes the old ones for only three months. Once again this government initiative shows that it assumes that this pandemic story will end in the quarter, but the virus does not seem to do her a favor. By way of prior provision, the Government has passed a regulation exempting private doctors from prescribing unsafe. By this provision, the Government amends the article which it adopted just two weeks ago to say that in certain cases of medicines or treatments designated by ministerial decision individuals will continue to prescribe uninsured persons. In any case, the 'false' of the first provision, in which we strongly criticised it, as it restricts the access of the unsafes to medicines, for example, will no longer be able to prescribe their medications to social hospitals, because many doctors there are private and equal - there is a place for corruption - who knows the minister well and the medicine - since the Minister's decision to exclude medicines is without a partner, namely without a suggestion from someone, for example, the EEA, or without any element. Besides, people will join together in times of pandemic in hospitals, which by definition are supertransmission spots and you understand that the problem is too serious. The provisions also appear to provide more room for decisions by the Directors of the Ministrys and of the Hospitals with regard to nursing specialities and procedures for the selection of the Training Coordinators in the Nursing Specialities. Without criterion, therefore, this choice, which will create ground for opaqueness and corruption. The proposals of the National Development Council for Nursing, that is, the official body dealing with these issues, are also ignored. Some important changes are also made to the structure and functioning of the National Committee for Supported Reproduction. The institutional framework has only been amended in the summer and it is impressive what has emerged since then. The EEA budget for diagnostic and oxygen tests is increased because of the pandemic. Here, finally, is a provision in a positive direction which we will support, especially because it relates to a request from small diagnostic centres. I would like to devote the rest of my time, firstly, to reintroducing SYRIZA's amendment for a year of full discharge from participation in pharmaceutical expenditure for all those who have definitively denied the provision of the CSCE. I do not think I need to argue on this at all. It goes without saying that in these circumstances those who have suffered too much must receive a favourable treatment. I'm closing up with a request that's a pandramine request. It's a request for the whole drama society. In these circumstances, the extremely difficult ones, which as a society we paid a very heavy blood tax, can be treated as the staffing functions of the Drama Hospital, if it is declared barren. You therefore have the opportunity to take the initiative to declare the Hospital of Drama barren in order to speed up the procedures for filling the posts, which will serve the local society but, above all, to be a stirring-up to the vicious pandemic that is coming near and at risk of lives in the next period. Finally, a complaint concerning Article 82 concerning the Patras-Pyrgos national road. The Drama - Amphipolis street, this modern-day Arta Fiji, which the Prime Minister announced was completed, took once more extension. Are we going to find a similar care with the Patras-Pyrgos road, which is also about the link between Drama and the Ennatia Road? After the arrangement for Edessa, Drama is the only capital of Macedonia which is not linked to Egnatia Street with obvious consequences. So with this, I'm finishing my last placement for 2021. I wish everyone health, personal and family, and 2022 would be a better year for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u180	We, too, thank you, Mr Xanthopoulou, for the wishes and the respect of time. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. The provisions which we introduce are contained in Articles 83 to 87 of this draft law. In fact, they have problems resulting from the consequences and developments of the pandemic. In particular, Article 83 re-establishes the possibility of providing vocational training, training and training by all the public commercial maritime schools in the field of distance learning. This restores the smooth functioning of maritime education structures and seafarers' uninterrupted professional development and work. Article 84 extends the monthly training allowance to students of the Commercial Navy Academy. In this way, the first educational trip of the students of AEN for 2022 is taken. The extension is valid until 30-6-2022, while in a bill submitted by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy at the beginning of the year, further extension of this coverage will be promoted, and for the first time the extension of this coverage will also be implemented for the second educational trip of the tests. In this way we are giving further incentives to attract young people to the naval profession. Article 85 extends the validity of proof of naval capacity for Greek seafarers up to 30-6-2022. This will ensure that our seafarers and Greek ships, wherever they are, face no problem from foreign authorities in the normal exercise of their profession. Article 86 also extends the obligation to complete the master plan for a further two years in order to avoid any unwanted involvement, both in the implementation of port projects and in the legalisation of port facilities. Finally, Article 87 allows the employees of the Piraeus Port Authority and the Greek Port Authority wishing to be transferred to bodies of the Greek State and of OTA I and B of Grade 26-11-2021, until the procedures for the adoption of the individual acts required for such transfers have been completed. I would like to wish all my fellow Members a good Christmas and a good holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u184	Here you go, Mr. Xanthopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u185	There's this. Mr Screkas announced an amendment that we have not yet received. I do not know whether it is a legislative improvement or an amendment. That is why I would ask you very much for it to be distributed. Is that a legal improvement? In a bill that has not been submitted? What kind of legislation is that? Has the bill been filed? Has he tabled an amendment, and is he doing the legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u186	An amendment under general number 1183 and a special 199 has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u187	It's an amendment eventually. And he's at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Constantine Maraveyas is called to Stepma by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago Mr Tsipras during the debate on the state budget finally took the vague leap to the void and called for the resignation of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to bring about the so-called progressive governance. This request was made by the government to deal with the pandemic, many of which include this bill. Obviously in order for Mr Tsipras to ask for a coronary election, these measures must be reasonable for SYRIZA to be bad, inadequate and so on. But when Mr Tsipras was asked last night at his TV interview, what specific measures he would propose to protect public health, he had nothing to mention. I repeat, neither a concrete measure nor the bad measures taken so far by the Government of New Democracy. All he had to say was for the bad list of Pechas and the bad media. So everyone, with their problems, is the conclusion. But for the New Democracy's government of responsibility, the question is the protection of public health, while for Mr Tsipras the problem is the channels and newspapers. Let it be. But let's get into this fantastic SYRIZA world that suddenly leaves the bad Prime Minister and the good one comes. The question, therefore, is what this competent, progressive governance would do with pandemic. The first thing the Chief of Officer's Representation told us yesterday was that he would replace the Pecha list with another list. Although it does not sound very medical to me, we accept that the first priority of progressive governance is the replacement of the media. From there on, you will ask, in this fantastic world, what would be the measures that would really protect citizens from pandemic the next day? Are there? As I said before, the Head of SYRIZA was unable to name one of these measures yesterday. I will, however, fill this gap left by the answer of the Chief of Staff, listing measures-proposals tabled by SYRIZA from March 2020 until November that passed us and giving us an idea of what this progressive governance would be. In the spring of 2020, SYRIZA asked for tourism and focus to be opened, but in the summer of 2020 it reported their opening. In 2018, it announced the mandatory vaccinations for infectious diseases and in 2021 it rejected them by denying compulsory health care. Why, tell me whether there can be a compulsory system without any administrative measure for anyone who fails to comply with this requirement. A few weeks ago, the same party accepted the undeniable necessity of the vaccinations of all our fellow citizens over the age of sixty, but rejected compulsoryity as unconstitutional. At the same time, in the Ministry of Health of this progressive governance, Mr. Paul Paulakis, who described vaccines against the coronary experimental and, indeed, tested, monoclonal antibodies of a particular multinational, called them the only immediate and salarial solution, until the pharmaceutical industry itself withdrew them from the evaluation of the EMA. At the same time, the President of this progressive governance would say that he intends to campaign in favour of vaccination, but having submitted to the House at the same time a document signed by Mr Tsipras himself, which declares that "the vaccination is not" - to say - "the return passport to normality for anyone". Obviously, the citizens want to avoid this craving at all costs, which is why they bring to the polls New Democracy in front of more than ten units in relation to the Police Department party. So they don't want the Greeks to live this nightmare of progressive rule Tsipras, where the Left won't know what its Left is! That is why society continues to trust the Mitsotakis Government as the only option of responsibility and serious response to problems, including pandemic. Mr President, the bill under discussion contains a series of necessary measures from various ministries against the coronary, sanitary and economic measures, the extension of which is necessary to deal with the new wave of the pandemic. Therefore, it cannot be the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Health and of many other ministries responsible for sectors other than the ESS, which are affected by the effects of the coronary. As far as the particular health sector is concerned, I would like to stress the extension of any existing provision which allows for the appointment or recruitment of all qualified doctors, nurses and so forth as they exist in the country and which they want to serve in the National Health System. It is therefore annulled, Minister, once again the argument not to aid hospitals with all available staff. And I think this is an argument that is populist and malicious, which I hope, at least, will not be heard in this Chamber again. In conclusion, I would also like to acknowledge the respondence of the Ministry of Health to a consistent request from the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and especially doctors from the National Health System. Article 3 of the relevant Ministerial Amendment defines the liability of doctors in the treatment of coronary patients. The question, of course, is the legal protection of doctors in the first line and not impunity. Many colleagues, particularly hospital doctors, are being confronted with malicious actions by people who affect relatives of hospitals and, unfortunately, are very often manipulating even their own patients. It is, then, a grim reality that sanitarians live daily while striving to save lives. In fact, in recent years, we have also had an increase in such phenomena, at the expense of doctors and nurses, either by force or by abuse of legal means by self-invigoration, apart from all logic and very often by other purposes. I am sure that the proposed provision will put a brake on the irrationalities of those targeting health, at the time that they give the first line of battle against the coronary and save nurses whom some, with legal terminology, have attempted to get out of hospitals. So it is time, beyond the responsible government that brings these measures to Parliament and the opposition to assume its responsibilities. That is why I would like to believe that, at least, the provisions of the bill dealing with the treatment of pandemic will be accepted in a homogeneous and universal manner, without question by any party. Happy holidays to everyone, in health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, too. The State Secretary for Digital Governance, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you a few provisions, which are in the amendment tabled yesterday, late in the evening, which concerns two axes. One is a number of urgent issues on the register, and the second is a provision which will make it easier for citizens to check their vaccination certificates for COVID. For the first part, two are the main issues. The first question is that contracts, which expire until April 2022, are to be extended by the end of 2022, by a decision of the Board of Directors of the Stock Exchange, in order to address the subsidization problem that exists. And the second important provision is that the staff of the Land register, the paid mortgages, which will be transferred to the Ministry of Justice, will be transferred after two years in order to enable the administration of the real estate offices to be completed and to complete the realisation. We are now in the last phase of ceremonisation and everything is moving fast. This legislative initiative launched in 2018 for the conversion of property registers to property registers continues, continues normally, and that is why there needs to be a small 'freezing' of transfers to the Ministry of Justice, employees of the paid mortgages, so that they do not stay without a world and the eighty new recruitments - which have been approved and will be made through the ADP - permanent staff. The second issue, Mr President, in the amendment is Article 11, which introduces a useful possibility for citizens, above all. We have all noticed that when we go to a store, for example, according to the measures that exist to limit the spread of the coronary, together with the vaccination certificate - which we have in our mobile or printed form - we are also asked for the identity to be found to coincide with the name with the person who wants to enter a facility, a restaurant for example. Now, in a few days' time, it will be possible to store, in essence, certain elements of identity along with the photograph on the cell phone, in the wallet, so that identity does not have to be sought in physical form. There will be identity in digital format, along with the name and date of birth, so that one can carry fewer cards with him and have them digitised. It's just for authentication. It's just for demonstration. And the shopkeeper has no access to the verification, in fact, or to the personal data, of identity. That is Article 11 of the amendment. Thank you very much. Happy holidays to me too, with health above all!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u192	You too. Mr. Ioannis Loverdos is called at Step by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak in this bill, because both our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative and the Minister for Health in his speech - in which he gave apostostic answers to everything - covered his content quite a lot. However, I was caused by a phrase that the rapporteur, Mr Igoumenides, said in all respects, that for us, New Democracy, it is all the fault of SYRIZA and Tsipras. No, of course not. It's not SYRIZA and Tsipras for the pandemic. It's not Mitsotakis' fault for the pandemic. It's not our fault for the pandemic. No one's to blame for the pandemic. The pandemic came and our enemy is neither Tsipras nor KINAL nor the Greek Solution nor anyone. Our enemy is COVID-19. Our enemy is this virus, which destroys all mankind. So far, five and a half million people have lost their lives from COVID-19 all over the world. Unfortunately more than twenty thousand of our fellow citizens have lost their lives. It's amazing what's happening. It is terrible, it is tragic, it is an unprecedented test in human history, at least in the last hundred years and a tragedy in which we all had to try together to deal with it. Unfortunately, if it is your fault, Mr Igoumenidis and Mr Xanthopoulou, to SYRIZA, it is my impression that you are trying to take advantage of this crisis, this trial, this tragedy, to obtain micro-party benefits. That's what you make of me. I wish I would fall out, but I'm afraid I'm not falling. You give me the impression that you do not want this test to be overcome, as if you were going to vote through it. But it doesn't matter... Since this unprecedented test in our country and the world as a whole, I have said that it is not for opposition. There are so many issues on which we can disagree, so many ideological and politically and socially. Thank God, this government has a very productive legislative work and we can argue there at all. In the pandemic, no. In the pandemic which affects both the neo-democratics and the pasochians and the communists and the left and the symbiotes and everyone, we have no right to play with people's lives, even in the words. Unfortunately, I realized that in this game and KINAL, with his new leadership, he's trying to raise the tons. I heard Mr. Katrin and Mrs. Giannakopoulou. I have heard Mr Katrin say to the New Democracy and the Government'serve yourself'. Ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, the government is very serious and very responsible. He's trying to solve this unprecedented crisis, which no one knows how to evolve. Whoever says he knows is lying. Not even does the World Health Organisation know, but who warns yet that a storm can come in the next few weeks and in this storm we can fight here about who will get more votes and who will do better in the polls? Mercy! Let us be responsible and serious. It's the government. Kyriakos Mitsotakis put above all the protection of public health and the lives of our fellow humans. Above all. And that does, of course, trying to keep the balance with the economy. They cannot withstand, they are not unlimited the financial means available to our country. We must be able to keep the economy and society open on the one hand and save lives on the other. It's a very difficult riddle. Now if you are on the occasion of the pandemic for Mr Tsipras to ask for an election, what to say. From what I understood, even the Greek Solution - Mr. Villardos asked for this government to leave - he asked for an indirect election before and called us dangerous. Hazardous! Are these characterizations now in the middle of a pandemic? Hazardous, criminal acts? I will not go into the phrases of Mr Kurubli. I've gotten over that. But "criminal acts", SYRIZA says so. Liars, dangerous. There is no reason to try to exploit a situation for micro-party benefits. There's no reason. And you don't have the small-party benefits, as the polls show. You won't win anything. You're losing. Why? Because the world is much more responsible and much more in front of the opposition parties. That is why he sees the truth, and that is why the difference with New Democracy is still widening in the polls. Why? Because they see a responsible government, a serious government, which is trying to keep the country up and so far manages, despite the tragedy, I repeat, the twenty-thousand dead who are not a number, are not statistics, are real stories of people who have lost their lives, many of them unfortunately inconvenienceless. That's why we all need to be vaccinated. You're asking for elections. Last week Mr. Tsipras came and asked for elections and insists on the election scenario. Thirty-five years of journalist I have found that those asking for elections are the ones who do not want them. They're asking for elections not to take place. No elections, not because we're afraid of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u194	And Mr. Mitsotakis asked for elections. He didn't want them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u195	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u196	I don't know what Mr. Mitsotakis wanted back then. Now what do you want? You're asking for elections. If we were irresponsible, we'd make them and we'd naturally earn them for a walk. But we're not irresponsible. In the middle of a pandemic elections, there is no way. And that's why you ask, let's raise your difference from the Change Movement. But these are yours, find them among you. But not play with society, with public health and people suffering. I wish you the depths of my heart well Christmas, good New Year and the next year to find us all more responsible, more serious and more decisive in dealing with a pandemic that, I admit, neither I nor any of us know how it will develop. I wish the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u197	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in order to present to Parliament the four provisions of our Ministry which have been introduced in the draft legislation under discussion. I should like to start with transport very quickly. Article 79 provides for the extension of the duration of the current contract for ‘Public Service Obligation’, the known ‘TRAINOSE Observatory’ PSOs. These obligations, i.e. the so-called ‘principal services’, are laid down in an agreement signed on 17 December 2015. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. We as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport what have we done? We have opened negotiations to sign a new convention, in line with what is provided for in European Regulation 1370. So this contract that we are discussing and negotiating with TRAINOSE is a tool to balance the very problematic in all respects of the 2017 privatisation agreement, which - apart from the outrageous, I would say, low price - did not have any reward for both the Greek public and passengers. The new convention, which we are ready to bring to Parliament in the next two months, ensures specific things, ensures safer, better quality and less costly services than we currently have. This new contract will, for the first time, introduce provision and obligation for TRENITALIA to make substantial and concrete investments, which will reach EUR 1 billion. In short, what we have agreed to do: The Greek public every year anyway gives TRAINOSE these subsidies. So the 'TRAINOSE' must be able to do what the convention and the privatisation you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have done did not anticipate. Let's go now, Mr President, to Article 80, where we have the extension of the duration of the inappropriate state funding of the OSE. This is how we ensure the financial viability of the organisation. We are prolonging the duration of the incompatibility of bank accounts, the ban on the netting of these funds for debts of the OSE to the public, to the insurance funds, etc., and the exemption from the obligation to issue and produce insurance and tax information. Under Article 81, and under the same logic, i.e. to address the lack of liquidity of the CIU, it is extended to 30-622 and the term of validity of the deferral of netting payment and the debt recovery procedure of the CIU. The OSE will thus be able to collect monthly government funding to cover its ruthless costs and to cover staff payroll. I now come to the most important, if you will, an article that we have as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and it has to do with the ratification of the agreement amending the concession agreement that we signed last week on the many work of Patras - Tower. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we are closing a period of time. This amendment to the Convention energizes the right to return Patras - Tower to the concession of the Olympia road. This is a choice that we are proud of, since it was the only reasonable solution we had. Of course, it is good to hear some hard truths about this particular work. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a project that was guaranteed funding and was auctioned by the Samara - Venizelos government in 2014, which would have been completed if SYRIZA had not done anything incomprehensible, to break this project into eight pieces. We all know why this project has been broken down. In fact, there has also been a committee of inquiry in this House, which has discussed this issue. So, with the perseverance of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself, and with a difficult effort we made at the Ministry of Transport, we managed to resurrect the Patras - Pyrgos project. So what did we do? We made our election commitments government, because since the New Democracy to the opposition had made it clear that the only solution to this project is to get back into concession. Oper and done. Despite the obstacles, internally and externally, we persuaded Brussels, three Directorates-General of Brussels, and last week we received the green light in the most official way from Vice-President of the European Commission, Mrs Westager. We have therefore taken a very long road and finally, as I said before, this loose ends. In conclusion, Mr President, I have to respond to a few things that have been heard by SYRIZA colleagues who have nothing to do with reality. They talked about direct assignments. This has nothing to do with reality, because the southern part of the E65, which was rightly signed by SYRIZA, was done by the same procedure. So this is a direct assignment and what you did in 2018 in the E65 wasn't it? To be serious, then, in this Chamber and to see the facts. The Greek State will be invited to pay EUR 216 million. This is the financial contribution of the Greek State from the money we receive from the ESRB. With the eight contractors, how much will we pay? We'll pay 290 million euros. In other words, less money will be paid to the Greek public and this project will eventually be done, because we all know that partitions eventually lead to a dead end, because the projects are not done, the timescales are coming out and we end up with a little piece of work and construction sites that stay in the air. So this is the reality of the Patra - Tower project. And, as I have noted during the signing of the contract, I will repeat the same words today, your words, of SYRIZA: Responsibility, you told us, has a name. Indeed, he has his own name, as is success having a name, the Government of New Democracy. Thank you very much, and I wish you good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, too. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for a question to the Minister and then Mr. Viliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u200	Minister, I have the following questions. The first question: The reinstated work is Patras - Tower. What about the tower - Chaconas project? Second question: The road does not go to the Tower, but stops at the Hanakia. Why did you make that choice? Third question and more fundamental in this case, for the specific work we are talking about: why are you insisting, Minister, that the southern development of the exit from Patras does not take place? This condemns a series of settlements in settlements and not just. Don't tell me because of the delay, because the project could have come backwards. In the fourteen years it could have become this way out. But the insistence, and yours and the previous governments too, gives rise to many and great questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Villard has the floor now. Minister, you'll answer both of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Secretary, if I understand you said you'd bring the deal next year, so we'll see it in detail. As far as the Patras tower project is concerned, you said last year that it would be financed by 85% from Europe and we would only put 15%. I'd like to know if it's true and what's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u203	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to answer my dear colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, but make a small admission. I think, Mr President, that the fact that this openness is being closed is something that we must recognise in this Parliament that it is a good thing, because this road, in addition to its development prospects, has another very serious problem. He had a road safety problem, because every year we grieved on these roads a lot of fatal accidents. So this is a conquest and I think it makes no sense to get into this controversy. You said about the Good Water - Chacona project. A few months ago, I myself had come to Parliament and said that this is a project which is also a government's priority. And this work and the negotiation of how we can complete it and how we will find funding we will see it immediately after we have closed the loose end of the Patras to Tower project. That was our main loose end. As far as southern development and these issues are concerned, I would like to say that this work and planning have not been on the road we have been talking about for years. Here we are, and I invite you to ask me whenever you want a parliamentary question, so that we can have time to discuss these issues as well. We shall now proceed to the issue of the financial contribution. Mr Villardo, what I said is that all the co-funded projects, namely projects that have the European Union's funding, state participation is specific. In other cases it is 5%, in other cases it is up to 15%. But what I think we should keep is this. With the eight contractors we had and the specific contractors who had taken over the work, it is clear that the work would never be done. What for? Because they had given huge discounts and usually in these projects, when you give 50% and 60% discounts, they are not complete. Hence, all four theories that had been theoretically launched were very little progress in the work. I have tabled them in the Minutes of this House because, for this story with Patras - Tower - you know it very well - we were coming here as members of the Government, as Ministry of Infrastructure, and we were answering the questions of colleagues, Mr Nikolakopoulou, Mrs Agrinopoulos, Mr Katrin, and giving concrete timetables. We, therefore, have caught these timetables. And what do we say? That the work will be cheaper, the project will be done on time, the project will be maintained, because it will be in the concession. And most importantly, I think, which we must not forget, is that we will also be judged by the timetable for implementation. And this project will be ready at the end of the '23s - early '24s. A project, which had been discussing for over fifteen years and had been through a thousand waves, finally finds this solution. And I think that this is something that all sides of this Parliament must recognise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years of good holidays. Be well, meet here after them in health. I will not speak as a Member, or as a health theoryist, or as a journalist who talks about health issues too. I have been the Minister of Health at a very difficult time, in the most difficult post-political period that our country has had, when we were trying to rescue the National Health System and to keep it up, in conditions that had no precedent in Greece, at the beginning of a strong crisis that reached the limits of bankruptcy. And we did it. PASOK created the ESS, PASOK kept it up and up in the most difficult years. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still ignorance and anxiety about the dispersion of "Omicon" in Europe and especially in Greece. Our university workshops in Crete, Athens, Thessaloniki give the battle. The battle is given to the best university workshops on the planet, in the global scientific community, to detect the gravity of the 'Omicon' variant of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is 'tsunami'. How big this tsunami is still not known. The studies are being prepared, but they are still not complete. It is also expected to complete the studies on the effects of this 'Omicon' variant on vaccinated animals. What, of course, has collapsed completely is that pandemic is a pandemic of the invaders. This has been devastated and those who have said that have not been justified. We're all in danger. Of course, the big difference is as far as the consequences are concerned, namely the risk of intubation and death. This is the big difference. That's why I'm among those who from the first moment, even though I'm not a doctor, they spoke in favour of vaccination and they keep talking fanatically in favour of vaccination. But let us not see pandemic as a political issue. Tensions are not a daily phenomenon in the House. Let us look at it as an issue that needs to be practically found most of us in agreement. I'm saying again that I'm not the former Minister of Health. I'm not using any other property, and I'm not going anywhere else. I've seen doctors often speak like politicians and politicians talk like doctors, most of us aren't. It's not going anywhere like that. I'm going to split my intervention into two areas. Those associated with prevention and those associated with the treatment of the disease itself when it occurs to a particular person each time. First. That is right, I fully agree, we do not have a universal lockdown. But the government must finally make the decision. No invasive must enter enclosures. This is a strict and difficult decision, but it is necessary. And a government that fears the problem and always goes behind it and its needs are not standing right. When a problem is off limits, it cannot be handled within limits. I have said that in the House too many times. Two. And the vaccinated, that is, we can't get into enclosed spaces without rapid test. This was to be a government's decision on holidays and, unfortunately, it is not. Third. As far as rapid test is concerned, I have said it dozens of times in the House. All unreliables must be withdrawn. Two or three days ago two of them were withdrawn, the cost of which is 10 cents -10 cents! - and which were in use. You did the unreliable test, which doesn't detect the virus, you went out clean and you had access all over. But it was not a prevention instrument. And you hesitated as a government to withdraw them. Two, which did not have approval certificates, were withdrawn. And yet, they were moved to the pharmacies. All unreliable tests, which are supposedly cheap, are used by businesses and offer them to their employees many times. Not all of them. All of this has to leave the market so that we have reliable rapid test as a preventive measure, which detects the virus at more than 70%. Fourth. The third dose must be mandatory now. The third instalment must be made compulsory now. Why are you afraid? They're the people who made the two doses. It is a pity that the weather passes and the measures come all after, after their problems and growth have arisen. Furthermore, as a fifth measure to consider whether, after a certain age - not to the limits that you have today, below - vaccination must be mandatory. As far as the repression, so-called 'therapy', is concerned, I read that the French and Germans have broken the so-called 'empargo' in the European Union in terms of the supply of antiviral drugs. The French and Germans. Why do we monitor the slow-moving caravans when the two main levers of European unification have broken this so-called 'inpargo'? What are we waiting for? When are we going to take turns when this treatment measure, which is said to be effective, becomes everyday? We'll be back, we'll be late while people need it. Secondly, why does the protocol not relax for the use of monoclonal antibodies? Why is it so hard? Because it's expensive as a cure? But in money, as far as the health sector is concerned, and especially for the treatment of COVID-19, there is no budgetary restriction. Why do you hesitate to relax the protocol on this matter? We read that Omicon may not be treated with monoclonals. I don't know, or the international scientific community or ours has come to an end. However, this is a reading. In any case, however, there is the Delta which is in progress. Thank you very much for listening to me. Third. I asked the Ministry of Health to give us a macabre list - Mr. Pleari, I asked you - of deaths, where are statistics most of the many, of the twenty thousand so far. And because the issue of deaths has been used in the most miserable political way in the Greek Parliament, I tried to be serious. On 1 November I asked the following question: 'This statistics are not necessary for reasons of impression, but in order to accurately illustrate what interventions must be made as soon as possible', I told you. You didn't answer. But the Tsiodra-Lytra report has come. I won't use it politically, nor do I want to take advantage of it. Mr. Chiodra, we knew him when we faced H1N1 flu. You made him about God. Now it looks like you're not listening to him. So you're taking the subject of scientific validation, depending on the scientist's view and the context, as SYRIZA does, with his unambiguous proposal to make a scientific committee across the board. How do we look at it, Mr President, if the scientist is good, whether he is a socialist communist or a neoliberal? These are crazy things. I'm not saying that. I say that a man, if validated, has his validity whatever he says. We were told three interesting things here. Mortality is more out of my mind. We knew. Mortality more than Attica. We were thinking about it, we didn't know. And we didn't know at all that there was more mortality in younger ages in northern Greece, Thessaloniki. We didn't know that, nor did we imagine it. The macabre statistic, however, makes sense to take action.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u207	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u208	I shall conclude, Mr President. And is - is - is this a fourth thought - a measure to concentrate the problem on certain hospitals in the country, where the appropriateness of addressing will be as high as possible? They're getting ready, Mr. Pluri, dozens of lawsuits. And these are not the lawsuits or sues from which you want to protect your staff today. They will turn against the Greek state for incomplete protection. Such treatments are being prepared where we have deaths. When the other guy tells you he's dying because he's in a regional hospital and he'd have better luck if he was in Athens, lawyers are now scratching their pencils and doing well, you can't tell them no. Five. Did cooperation with the private sector, which I have been talking about for a year, not exist and should have existed? Would many more opportunities have been given to deal with some of the problems of patients who have ended up outside the ICM, or who, in any case, are suffering, while there is the possibility of them being better dealt with? And finally, if you do not want to do any of these drastic measures and want to remain moving within the regional hospitals - why does the Tsiodra - Lytra study not show that - with the greatest mortality, is there any possibility of some aid to staff specialised? Is that so? Have you traced it? Have you done an inappropriate investigation? Isn't that enough? Isn't that enough for the infectious? Have you tried and hadn't done it, or are you looking at it without dealing with it? My last sentence is this. In view of the holidays, which makes sense to think, as we thought last year, that the problem may grow, we expected you to take some measures. The fact that you have not taken some measures is not a wrong choice. It is a dangerous option, and I hope I am wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u210	I have come, Mr President, because in the addition amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Health entitled 'Agreements to deal with the CIVID-19 pandemic and the protection of public health and other urgent provisions', we have two articles from the Ministry of Development and Investment. It is Article 1 that is a transitional provision for strategic investment. What do we say in this amendment? We say that those investments, those investment projects that have submitted a request to ENTERPRISE GREECE, to the Greek company for the promotion of export trade, are judged on the basis of the law in force at the time of their application and therefore on the basis of those criteria. We considered that this provision did not need to be made, that it was self-evident that everyone is judged on the basis of the time it has been tabled, so any changes to the law that have been made since its deposit concern them and not them before. However, the legal services of ENTERPRISE GREECE have concluded that this article needs clarification so that there are no legal matters in the process. So Article 1 says that thing. Each investment project is judged on the basis of the law, the incentives, the subsidies and the other provisions of the law on the day the application was submitted. Article 12 is a redistribution of staff at the DDC, which is related to the proclamation of university education posts in the field of Engineering, Geotechnicals, Informatics, Environment, Administrative and Economics, Informatics and Engineering. We are talking about twenty positions which are redistributed into the ETS, so that it can function as quickly as possible at the beginning of the new year. Let me just say one last thing. It's not the Ministry of Development, but it's about us, we've signed it. In Article 11 there is the Office of Greek. I imagine the Minister for the Environment and Energy said that. I didn't have time to watch because the day was hard today. We are, however, building at the Ministry of the Environment Independent Hellenic Office, which is responsible for issuing the planned building permits. We have to issue about three and a half thousand different permits for the various buildings that are to be built under the master plan. In order to enable this process to be quickly completed and to complete the investment, this Independent Office is therefore set up within the planned time. I'm at your disposal for any question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Floris has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u212	I'm making some legislative improvements. Referring to the Ministry of Health, I would like to clarify that from the three legislative improvements, the two relate to the National Medical Helper Reproduction Authority. These are matters relating to the time they will start to take effect and to the presence of the Deputy President in the councils. In addition, the extension we had done for those who had started specialisation by 31 March would not be included in specialization time in the additional quarter. That's not happening. This includes the additional quarter that will stay COVID for the time of the qualification for which they have been recruited. I would particularly like to refer to the legislative improvement under number 20, as you will see, because I have been informed that a debate has taken place earlier. It is Mr Skreka's bill and it concerns a legislative improvement which allows the extension of one month and the issuing of an electronic building identity card. So why does that come as a legal addition? It is because the bill of the Ministry of Finance was given the corresponding extension time in order to be able to complete and draft the contracts for the transfer of real estate from donation and parental provision and, of course, the corresponding time for the issue of electronic building identity should be given, precisely because there is legal identity. So this is the legislative improvement that has already been raised. It comes as a legislative improvement precisely because it has a speech on the issue of the Ministry of Finance, which is the extension of the month to the real estate transfer contracts. I put it to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, is called at Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin my speech on the issue of the Father Tower, since the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport is here. In fact, in my question, and in the answer he gave, he somehow moved us, he should think that the JRC is a very positive development, not only because it is the road, which has development criteria, but also because it is a carnival road, where we mourn too many dead. Really, who's to blame, Minister, for that? Who is to blame, for example - we are not going to take over time - since 2007? Even if we assume that the road will take place in two years, it took seventeen years on substance to make a road of eighty-five kilometres, a carnival road, which has no technical difficulties, no technical difficulties. It's plains, somewhere. Who is to blame for this, for the seventeen years that have been lost, since 2007 as the original contract was signed, while five governments passed all parties, New Democracy, PASOK, New Democracy - PASOK, SYRIZA - Independent Greeks and now New Democracy? Who's to blame for all this? Is it anyone's fault? Is it not the governments and toys they did with contractors and consortia on the backs of the Greek people and the victims on the road? Sure. So it's your fault. And we say this, because beware: If we wanted to put a title in your policy, it is 'what serves the consortium'. This is your policy, 'what serves the consortium', recalling that initially, since 2007, the JRC had voted against the conventions for the Olympian road as well as for the other roads. Why? Because they were letonous contracts, because they would be made with the Greek people's money on the substance. The consortium would only put 10%. The rest was European funding, public funding and tolls, i.e. people's money. One of the prisoners. Secondly, there are other measures, such as the annual adjustment of tolls. Already yesterday, all the consortia announced increases in tolls from 1 to 2023, about 30 minutes for all road axes for the IX increase, at this time. Third question put forward by those conventions: State compensation for reduced revenues that the consortia may have. Every year compensation is paid to the consortia of several tens of millions of euros to those who have not taken up the objectives on the basis of which the transport contract has been signed, and thus the corresponding revenue from tolls. Fourthly, because it certainly compensates the State for the consortia which manage the roads for the reasons of force majeure. Next matter: Aren't you the government that has reduced this to Patras? You have also reduced it without reducing state funding and European funding. Instead, when the project was done, the cost of creating the Corinth - Patras road was greater than the original cost foreseen by the original Corinth - Chacona road agreement. More cost! How does that explain? It is a matter, to see who wins from this process. And of course, you didn't accidentally reduce the subject. There were certain reasons. Of course, it was the difficulties of the consortia, because they asked for much more, in essence, to build the roads, but it was also the obligation that you had in the European Union to complete the trans-European networks, namely the PATHE road, Patras - Athens - Thessaloniki. This was the immediate priority for the European Union and, of course, it has contributed a great deal to the consortium since it has had large roads, large transport work and thus increased tolls. Of course, SYRIZA brought this original scheme of eight contractors, which, in essence, would not have been done. With its re-election, the New Democracy has only reincorporated the piece until the Tower so far. We haven't seen the rest of it. You say it will be done in a later phase, without there being a specific timetable, when there are important issues about the road from the Tower to the Chacona and you know them very well. The first and most important is Lake Kaiafa. It is the first and main obstacle and you know it very well, Minister. So it's an issue you'll see along the way. Right now it's only up to the Tower. Why to the tower? Because, of course, this can work immediately. It will have tolls the road that will be done, it is an easy construction work to be done and, possibly, it will also lead to a change of engraving to Ancient Olympia, which are pressing some local players, and it will make a change of engraving to Ancient Olympia, because, of course, the piece of Tower - Ancient Olympia is "fileto", due to its tolls and motion. So here's how the situation is shaped. This project will be carried out at public spending totalling EUR 217 million and what obligations does the consortium have? To raise its share capital by EUR 10 million. This is the obligation of the consortium, 217 million, and tolls, if the project for the operation by the consortium is completed and built. We have asked you an important question and it is not the first time that we have put it. We have raised this question since 2007 - to say that the JRC has now seen this - and has been related to southern development. Since 2007, we've been yelling. It's been fourteen years. You know it's a crime, and yet you're insisting on it. And why is it a crime? For two very specific reasons. Firstly, because it will lead to the housing destruction of all the communities that exist after Patras and almost Lower Achaya, from Brahneika to Kaminia. He's going to destroy them in settlements. And, secondly, it will create much greater problems, even accidents, on the small road that will remain as an alternative to the villages, the coastal road, which you know very well has significant problems due to its demolition from the sea. So why don't you go ahead with the change of engraving, which would make it easier, and of course would serve the industrial area? And there wouldn't be these important problems? Because you put it all in the 'cross bed' of the cost-benefit. It would've increased the cost. And seriously, do you gamble any increased costs with the situation of the people in these areas, with the dangers created for the safety of the people in the region? Perhaps she will delay her work, as if there could be no study to change the shape. SYRIZA didn't want that either. And now the engraving can be changed and the work starts from the bottom up until the studies are done and this process is completed. But insistence is precisely that a project is being created that serves the interests of the consortium to gain far greater profits and in this logic you gamble literally on the needs of the local people, but also on the whole of the people who use the road and it will be another expensive road that has already paid him for construction and will pay him back again. I would like to come to health issues, which mainly concern this bill. One previous speaker says that in pandemic matters we must all be united, because pandemic affects everyone as much. Not everyone's pandemic hurts. The Member of the New Democracy is making a very big mistake. It doesn't have the same consequences. Some have lost their jobs, some have come to unemployment, some have closed their shops and some have won, large business groups, dozens and hundreds of millions of euros because of the pandemic. So we do not have the same economic impact or social consequences. There are still no health effects themselves, since hospitals have changed to hospitals of a disease. The patients of the folk mattress, who were postponing their surgery regularly, the chronic sufferers? They should either go to the private sector and pay the private hospitals or otherwise wait for them to be examined. When? Never! So there are no similar consequences. That is why we say that governmental policy on the management of the pandemic has led to dangerous consequences for the people, their needs and their health. Because it insists on the issue of individual responsibility, covering up the enormous state responsibility for the management of the pandemic. It insists on the issue of the vaccine, leaving the health system intact at the same time. And of course he also resorts to communal tricks. Instead of rapid test in the period of celebrations paid by the people, free of two self-tests. That was the issue, then! So we will face the pandemic, based on the latest announcements made by the Prime Minister, while at the same time remaining the huge gaps and shortcomings in nursing staff and medical staff. What's the government doing with the bill? Instead of recruiting permanent staff, instead of permanently permanentising the auxiliaries and doctors and nurses with fixed-term contracts, it extends these contracts for some, moves to cover condoms and insists on the unacceptable and deeply anti-drug logic of suspending work for thousands of untreated sanitary people. Instead of moving forward and creating even more ICU beds, to create new hospital beds that are necessary not to be converted into hospitals of a disease, instead of opening closed hospitals, not only does it not do that, but it does not demand the private sector without compensation, so that it can do gold jobs. Thus the conversion of hospitals to hospitals in a basic disease sends patients to private hospitals, which do gold jobs. It maintains primary health care essentially within the limits of existence, between existence and non-existence, while its staffing and functioning on a 24-hour basis could dismantle hospitals, but also play a crucial role in the success of the vaccination programme, by personalised information, with pre-vaccinative tests needed for all free, by monitoring vaccinated and pharmacovigilance. Why don't you do all this? Because of course you're saying it's extra cost and it's a luxury to spend that much when the pandemic is over. Before the pandemic did hospitals and primary health care work properly? You don't. You do not, because you do not have any specific reasons - nor do you think that pandemic will be over quickly, so we are giving two months, three months or four months of extension to his logic by seeing and doing - because you do not want to cancel the plans that have been launched for years. What are the raided plans? The further deepening of health trade, privatisation and even more public health. In the same logic as all the governments, the previous ones, in this logic, are also taking the private business sector to expand to public hospitals, to shrink, to close hospitals and to merging clinics, so that there can be more profit for health entrepreneurs. That's the plan. That is why you do not go ahead with the measures that would shield the public health system. And at the same time keep protocols which essentially disperse and do not treat the spread of the virus to businesses, public transport and schools. The bill also includes a number of other issues that serve the needs of business groups. A leading example is the arrangements it has for energy issues. What are these basic arrangements? It facilitates the arrangements in this multi-brand plan the investment plans of private business groups active in the field of renewable energy sources, while the people are literally paying the choices they made in the field of energy and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. These choices are very expensive to pay for all the governments. Why? Because of course all the governments have borne in mind the logic of the liberalisation of the electricity market, they have been charged with and agreed with the green transition to renewable energy, they have imposed the polluting charges, which have reached very high levels and characterize the popular layers, so that it can be decapitated from lignite. You also went on to unify the energy market through the energy stock exchange and to establish the wholesale price of electricity, which was launched at around EUR 416 yesterday. And, of course, you have all accepted as a transitional fuel the natural gas, an imported fuel whose price is on fire. Why is he launching? Due to geostrategic US competitions with Russia, the European Union with Russia. And who pays these competitions? People pay them once again and through the launching of accuracy, forming a truly scary energy mix. What's that? 53% of electricity generation depends on imported natural gas, 15% of hydroelectric, which you do not regard as RES, 11% only RES at this winter season and the rest is lignite and imports. In other words, there is more than 60% of the demand for imported fuel or electricity, and then you say 'how the prices have escaped and the prices are up'! For these very reasons. And if last year at cheap prices 22% of households could not meet the heating needs of homes, imagine where it's going to launch now. Or do you think that the government's 'aspirin' measures will address the problem of home heating? And 32% last year at these previous prices could not, it was difficult to pay the energy bills. Imagine what situation it will be now! And from this point of view, then, we are clearly saying that, here, public intervention must set up such fighting targets, which in essence lead to lowering the cost of energy for the people through the abolition of excise duties, VAT, polluting charges and a number of other factors that trigger the price of electricity. Why look at that, if something goes wrong here, is precisely the huge productive potential that our country has for electricity generation, using all the sources, the enormous investment that is made, of many tens of billions of euros, on energy issues, and at the same time, 1/3 of the population living in conditions of energy poverty. This is the great contradiction that breaks down bones and shows the bankruptcy of the government's policy, but also of the previous governments, in terms of satisfying the people's needs, confirming that the development of capitalism not only does not satisfy the people's needs, but on the contrary is an opportunity to launch the profitability of business groups and to sacrifice the satisfaction of people's needs in that name. Mr President, I will end in a couple of minutes. And, of course, there are other tax gifts to businesses, such as the suspension of the self-taxation of property to legal persons, such as the suspension of payment to the Greek State of 5% for hospitals collected by private chronic dialysis units. You arrive at the point of prohibiting uninsured doctors from going to private doctors to prescribe medicines for tests, because, you say, it becomes waste. Really, why don't you catch that monkey-ass AMKA waste through e-subscribing? Why don't you get her? So it's head-cutting. And why don't you catch all this circuit that exploits the uninsured, but you just forbid uninsured people? At the same time you are giving another gift to pharmaceutical companies, through the reduction of the refund that pharmaceutical companies have to make to overcome costs, the so-called 'clawback'. There are other presents, such as the time extension of the application of the income tax provisions resulting from the transfer of shares for the business groups or the extension of the aid of TRAINOSE by 10 million, which will also cost 2022, for a company which has been privatised in the name of the public project it produces, if it makes the investments it has promised. This is what you are doing for the big capital, while, unlike their employees, you are dealing with the MATs, as you have dealt with the workers at the "Cavalas Petrela" who claim not to be fired, claiming to remain in jobs and not to convert the company's new investment project, which finances the Greek state, to a contractor, that is to say, by converting employment relationships into contractive labour relations. These workers treated them by force, by suppression, with the use of percussion grenades in an area that is dangerous, where explosives are banned, which could become a major accident. You prevented the JRC MP from approaching this site yesterday, and not only did you proceed with incubations, but also arrests and detentions yesterday, so that the process can be followed today. If you believe that in this way workers will bend their heads and will not claim the defence of their rights, the defence of public health and the fulfilment of their needs, you are deeply mistaken. From this point of view, hope is not in the elections. They call for elections that actually want to change to the government, so that they can continue with the same government's policy on the substance, because there are too many changes that the people have made. The result was every year to live worse than the previous year. We have confidence in the people's power, the strength of the working class and the folk-organised factor. We do not want the people simply to be a spectator of developments and vote every four years. We want to organise his struggle, so that it can also have better opportunities through the elections to overthrow the particular situation that has been created. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u215	Be well. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy has the floor now and Mrs Agerinopoulou from New Democracy is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative work of the Government continues at a time when we are committed to our objectives, in order to tackle pandemic, to support society, to create a better economic environment for the next day. And indeed there are many important provisions in this multi-brand plan. The provisions of the Ministry of Health, which contribute to the treatment of pandemic, are of particular importance. But you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to address the most important issue of the Ilias Prefecture, which I have the honour to represent, since this bill amends the concession contract and returns the Patras - Tower section on the Elefsina - Corinth - Patras - Tower motorway, making it possible to start work and carry out the work. It is a project for which the citizens of Elijah have heard many governments, many parties, many politicians promise and do not. Some governments, some politicians took steps forward, others took steps back and some did not take any steps at all. The citizens of Elias have always wanted this work, not only for the development of the region, but above all for their safety. In any corner of Elias and to return, any other action and to develop, any other work and to communicate, citizens have always called for developments for Patras - Tower, they have asked for the project to be carried out. And always this anguish, this frustration and indignation of citizens are rushing to exploit voices of populism, voices they have learned to make just criticism. That is why I have to take a small step backwards on how we have now come to the project. Because today, when the project begins and in a way that guarantees not only its completion, but also its rapid execution, the same voices disperse truths about the responsibility for delaying it, but also about the cost of the project. Others in SYRIZA, confusing and panic, go even further, slandering slander for alleged favor to certain contractors. It is such a panic now that, from the political exploitation of all deaths on this road - but only for the time in which New Democracy is governed - they have been slandered. They're investing in disaster. The debate on the construction of a modern highway connecting Patras to the Tower and Ancient Olympia starts from early, at least since the 1990s. Many spoke of the work, many promised. When did who seriously implement it? The project therefore, for the first time, is being seriously launched on 20-12/2007 with Law No.3621/2007, which ratified the concession contract for the construction of the motorway from Elefsina to Tsakona. For the first time, the basis for the start of work by a government of New Democracy is in place. Who was against it then? Left-wing coalition. I am presenting the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the work begins with Corinth, with a view to reaching Patras and then to the Tower. It is known that the economic crisis that has arisen has also led to serious economic problems for the concessionaire and has finally led to 11-12-2013 with L.4219 in the recovery of this section. And he comes today and says that then you answered it and today you rejoin it. What doesn't he say and misleads the people who are waiting for the project? Firstly, that it was completely different from that period from an economic point of view, and that he understood when he came to the country's governance and was defrauded. Secondly, the project was not actually cancelled at that time, but by the same law it was converted into public work. And, thirdly, you don't say what SYRIZA did to this law in Parliament. He voted for the project. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But SYRIZA's hypocrisy and lie doesn't stop here and can't stop. The provision of the law for the conversion into public works has not been left empty, because on 7-10-14 a competition for the Patras tower is being opened under the decision of the then Minister Michalis Chrysochoidis and we are now in competition. The answer now is simple: If the competition had gone ahead, if the government of SYRIZA, who won the elections in January 2015, hadn't canceled the competition, the project would have been completed. That's the truth. And in order to justify this huge political mistake, they invented another lie. They say he didn't have any money. The project was included on 22-9-14 in the 2014 Public Investment Program with SAE 071, under the decision of the then Minister for Development and Competitiveness Mr. I am presenting this decision for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The reasons why the competition was cancelled on March 26, 2015 by decision of Mr Spirtzi and Mr Stathakis are now well known and kilowatted. I also produce this decision. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The so-called red contractor, Mr. Kalogritsa, had to go to work. If I were really referring to what SYRIZA's government officials and MPs were saying all this time until spring 2019, when we saw bulldozers in just one department, that is for four years, I should have been talking at least 20 minutes about citizens' mocking and mocking. It is well known, however, that in the meantime the project was broken into in eight sections, that the requirements regarding the possibility of the project were reduced by the company "TOXOTIS" in the interests of Mr. Kalogrica and, finally, this company won this tender for four sections of the Tower - Dunnica - Amaliad - Cyclone - Varda. So Mr Kalogritsa takes four and not less parts, as many people claim, and even parts he takes, precedes the rest of the departments and gives impressive discounts of more than 50%. And here we are told another great lie, that Kalogeris was finally declared down. The best responses have been given by the pre-review committee of Parliament. That's because in the meantime he couldn't get permission from the TV channel, because you disagreed with him. It's all come to know. It arrived at Patras - Tower to employ the Lebanese company that went to work with Mr. Kalogrisa to get a television licence. Nevertheless, with great enthusiasm your officials and Mr. Pappas, who even visited Elias, continue to lie to the citizens of Elias. What else are you lying about after they've delayed the project for four years? What it had started and would have been completed with the eight contractors. In fact, the bulldozers had entered a few days before the 2019 elections to set up the scene, left and re-entered a part of the project. What, though, really and how far has the work gone? In the first section, no work has been done at all and the contractor has been declared to be inferior, because he has not been guaranteed. In the second, instead of 33%, we had work progress at 14% and that was the best. In the third section, no work had been done because it was still pending in the Council of State. In the fourth, no work had been done, because the contractor was declared to be inferior, because he had no guarantee. In the fifth, we had work done at 0.12% and with garbage in it. In the sixth phase of implementation of work at 2%, in the seventh half, 0.62% and in the eighth, 0.1%, with the contractor down. That is, from eight sections, the four had no contractor and the other four just over zero. This project started, a project that would never end. Ladies and gentlemen, lies are over. With personal intervention by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and a series of actions by Minister Kostas Karamanlis, the project was unlocked. We got all the necessary approvals and the project starts. We respond with works and not with words. The project was launched by a New Democracy Government, it begins with a New Democracy Government and is completed with a New Democracy Government. It is a work for all citizens that becomes a reality. Thank you and wish good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too. Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou from New Democracy is called at Step and Mr Burnos is being called upon by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is constantly and systematicly strengthening the National Health System. It increased, almost tripled the IF beds, while strengthening public hospitals with logistical infrastructure in which in previous years even poverty occurred. It proceeded with a series of recruitments of medical, nursing and administrative staff, both declaring permanent jobs and through the institution of subsidiary staff. This bill provides an extension to ancillary staff contracts, as the exceptional conditions created by pandemic in our country are. However, many of the announced new posts of permanent staff remain barren. In Elijah, which has been declared by the Government of New Democracy on several occasions, there is no relevant interest in doctors in joining our hospitals. As the problem of the lack of medical resources is not only presented in Elias but also in other regions of the country, and as this is an acute phenomenon in my view, bearing in mind that from the Greek universities a sufficient number of doctors are graduated, I would like to table the following proposal: I propose that we establish a return programme in Greece for Greek and Greek doctors, nurses and scientists living abroad. Set up a programme for Brain Drain in health with motives, pay through European resources and other programmes, with special conditions of cooperation for those of Greek and Greek origin scientists working in the field of health abroad and want for a shorter or longer period of work in our country. I give as an example a corresponding programme that was set up for the return of qualified staff to the high technology and digitalisation. Already today, the Prime Minister was inaugurated by the new research unit "ARCHIMIDIS", a centre of artificial intelligence that will attract Greece to important Greek scientists of the diaspora. With even more enhanced programmes, the Ministry of Health, perhaps in addition to the cooperation of the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Education and the University Hospitals, can attract a sufficient number of Greek scientists to the field of medicine and to similar scientists, who will not only want, but will also be able to institutionally work in their home country. Minister, knowing what great interest you have in this matter, I remain at your disposal to draw up this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, today for everyone in Elias is a day of celebration. Under Article 82 of the draft law, the agreement of 15 December 2021 amending provisions of the 2007 concession contract on the Eleusina-Korinthos-Patras-Tsakona motorway is ratified and becomes applicable and means relaunching the construction of the Patras-Tyrgos section with its reintegration into the concession agreement of the Olympian road. With Article 82, it puts an end to the recurring, finally the attempt to exploit for its own benefit by the SYRIZA Government of a large national project. Today she again receives a vital project for Elias, but SYRIZA almost condemned to failure, a great project that the government of Kostas Karamanlis had started for the country, which the government of Antonis Samaras dynamically continued and which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis successfully completed. Today we re-start the Patras - Tower for our prefecture, for the three other prefectures, Achaia, Zakynthos and Kefalonia, creating safe traffic conditions for our fellow citizens and for the thousands of visitors who choose our place every year as a tourist destination and at risk. In the early 2022 ’ s, therefore, the work on Olympia and Elias began. The project will be completed within three years and will be done on more favourable economic terms for our country than it had been calculated before. 87.5 km of new trans-European road network will be built, Olympia road, road to development, security, life. I feel the need to thank the Step of the House once again from the heart of our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has made the implementation of this road politically and at national level, and has achieved it, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, for his determination to become the road and take exceptional political leadership on his part, as well as all his colleagues who have worked unnecessarily all this time, in order to achieve the resumption of the project, and our local bodies and our fellow Members who have kept this request alive for all these years that the project was at risk. I would also like to thank the Executive Vice-President of the European Commission and Commissioner for Competition and the Deputy Head of the Directorate-General for Competition of the Commission, the operators of the case at the Directorate-General for Competition and the Directorate-General for Regional Development, our Greek MEPs, the Permanent Greek Representation in Brussels, and all those who made a decisive contribution to ensure that this vital work is not lost. The officials of the Commission, after effective and systematic communications from the Greek Government, prioritised this work despite the great workload they were created by the extraordinary conditions of the pandemic and made us feel that we were also an equal member of the great European family. With the strengthening of the National Health System and the completion of our main roads, our wish for a 2022 with health, safety and prosperity will be a reality. Happy birthday! Merry Christmas, everybody! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you too for keeping time. Mr. Ioannis Burnos is called at Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mr. Liutas will be followed by New Democracy, Mr. Bluchos from New Democracy, Mr. Spanakis from New Democracy. Now, if anyone can fly again early, I see Mr. Spankee going later. Mr. Zachariadis will be waiting to hear him, there's no way. Here, Mr Burnus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing another bill by the Mitsotakis Government - a monument of good legislation and respect for parliamentary procedures, a final draft of the Ministry of Health, which contains forty-four articles of responsibility and a hundred articles of competence of other ministries. It is a genogram law that you submitted six days ago, in order to minimize the processing time and exclude any possible constructive dialogue. So it is a broom bill, which is intended not to clean up, but to hide past government failures under the carpet. As far as health provisions are concerned, I am going to dwell on Article 39 of the bill. This provision amends the only two weeks ago the provisions of Article 38 of Law 4865/2021 which abolished the right to prescribe medicines, therapeutic actions and diagnostic examinations in uninsured patients and vulnerable social groups by private doctors. This uncertain and indicative of your ideological obsession has abolished the provision of SYRIZA's provision of law.4368/2016, where our insecure fellow citizens were able to visit certified private doctors and prescribe them examinations, medications and treatments. A few days ago, then, you voted for the prescription only through hospitals and public health facilities, starting on 1 January 2022. On 10 December, Mr Plouri, I submitted to you under parliamentary scrutiny a report on the unacceptable provision of Law 4865/2021 and the problems it poses to our insecure fellow citizens suffering from seasemia and sickle cell disease. People with seasemia and sickle cell disease, Mr.Poulis, are monitored by physicians of various specialties for the complications of their diseases, while many of the doctors involved in their follow-up are individuals with years of experience and specialisation in these diseases and in direct collaboration with doctors of the public units of Mediterranean anaemia and sickle cell disease in order to treat patients. I have pointed this out to you at that time, and now I must point out that the monitoring of sufferers from seasemia and sickle cell disease and private doctors is essential because of a great lack of staff in public health structures and the extremely small number of doctors who serve these diseases. I would remind you that people with disabilities and chronic diseases are experiencing a rapid increase in uninsured incomes due to unemployment. These people are completely unexplained to send in pandemic times to serve in burdened public health structures. Instead of bringing in a provision that abolishes the shameful provision of Law 4865/2021, you simply amend it by saying that in some instances of medicine or treatment defined by ministerial decision private doctors will continue to prescribe uninsured citizens. I would like to put aside the unacceptable practice of introducing exceptions to the law with a simple ministerial decision. What criteria are to be taken to exclude such drug or treatment? With the seriousness of the condition? At the cost of treatment or drug? Or is it with the private interest criterion? What about uninsured people who will not be able to prescribe their medicine to social hospitals, as long as a number of doctors who offer their services are private? Remove this despicable and ideological provision! Stop sedatively treating people with disabilities, the poor and the vulnerable! Subsequently, Article 48 extends for a six-month period the suspension of payment to the public of 5% of the chronic haemodialysis units on the receiving hospitals. For this indirect funding of private chronic dialysis units, invoke the emergency needs that have arisen from the health crisis brought about by COVID-19. Are the private dialysis units on the front line of the pandemic? Have you received a study in this regard? Although you haven't been doing well lately with the study receipts. I'm bringing you the example of Mytilene, after we're talking about the bleeding units. On SYRIZA in the dialysis unit three doctors were serving. In the New Democracy with a pandemic there has been a doctor left, randomly since he opened up in our city to a private dialysis unit. It is at least challenging, while you have cut public health expenditures in 2022 and while you have not provided any substantial support to the medical and nursing staff of public hospitals from the beginning of the pandemic on the front line, to fund the private clinics that no one has to do with the pandemic crisis. The extension by this article of the application of revenue through the exemption from public hospitals for the benefit of the private health sector may constitute a clear choice of Mitsotakis Government, but it is criminal. In conclusion, I would like to comment on Article 141 of the draft law on renting land and land by the Ministry of Migration and Asylum. With his friendly tactics Mr.Mitakis will be able to renew existing land and land rental contracts used for the hospitality of asylum seekers and for the conduct of asylum seekers' examination procedures, as well as to rent land and land adjacent to them. Reading this provision, and in particular the point that refers to the renting of neighbors, it is clear that the bell is ringing for Lesvos and for the other islands of the Eastern Aegean. At the same time, however, this provision makes it reasonably confusing, given that for these areas the Minister for Migration is accused of ending the refugee - immigration issue due to the excellent management of it and its government. What, then, is the purpose of a regulation enabling Mr Metarakis to act by way of derogation? It's a rhetoric. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, bring in another bill - broom on the last day of the House before holidays. But you know what? Vote as much as you want on your own or on a corporation! It is of little importance now, because the time is near for the Greek people and the country to return to the path of social justice and dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr Burnus. Mr Athanasios Litas from New Democracy from Trikalons is called in Stepma and Mr Constantine Blouchos is prepared. Here, Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government throughout the pandemic stood to its great responsibility by taking decisive and essential solutions. Our Government served, serves and continues to serve the highest goal of saving human life. In particular, measures and regulations have been taken that have enabled us to implement and implement our strategy to curb and tackle the pandemic of the coronary in order to protect the Greek society, above all in order to protect the human being. Today, this draft law, in the context of the health strategy that we have designed and implemented, provides for an extension to a number of relevant provisions until 31 March 2022, with a view to the uninterrupted continuation of our policy. In particular and indicatively extend until 31 March 2022 the obligation to demonstrate a certificate or certificate of vaccination or disease by workers in the private and public sectors, the duration of the advisory centres, the validity of the procedure for carrying out vaccinations against the coronary by the EGE, the national strategy for vaccination against the coronary, the possibility of direct recruitment of doctors of all specialities under appointment, the duration of fixed-term employment contracts by doctors who have been placed in the implementation of the forty-sixth article of 23 March 2020 of the Act of Legislative Act of 23 March 2020, the possibility of recruiting subsidiary medical nurses and other personnel and the movement of personnel from local health establishments, the movement of personnel from health services, the supply of medical services provided by contracted doctors and primary care to insured and uninsured patients with a coronary, the acceptance of medical and medical staff of a paramedical staff. The validity of Article 206(8) of Law 4820/2021 reassessing the mandatory vaccination status for health and other specific categories of workers and health professionals. As a whole, the draft law is what we have in our hands and we are discussing today is a draft law on the continuation of our health strategy. The pandemic of the coronary continues to be a global suffering and to make the obligation to continue with a strategy to prevent and tackle the cruel and painful consequences of this health crisis. The protection of Greek society, of all people, of all our fellow citizens, has been and is a fundamental and ultimate objective of our government. To this end we have moved, to that end we are moving and will continue to move. Ladies and gentlemen, the prevention treaty is the vaccine. The world medical community worked hard and handed over the vaccine to humanity. From our point of view, our government has designed, implemented and continued to implement a vaccination campaign – an international standard: Operation "YROTHRIA". The increase in the rate of vaccination in recent weeks after government interventions gives us all optimism. It makes us think that collectively and united we can build together a wall of immunity, a wall of immunity that can prevent the cruel and painful consequences of illness. In addition, I would like to note that this draft law continues to provide for market support measures. In particular, a number of specific health goods continue to have the over-reduced rate of VAT of 6%. In addition, between the others, two very important provisions are introduced for the owners of tourist buses and for our farmers and farmers. In particular, for owners of tourist buses, whose economic activity has been affected by the pandemic, the possibility is allowed to pay reduced traffic charges for 2022, respectively those paid for long-distance buses. Furthermore, for our farmers and farmers, it is foreseen to extend until 31 December 2022 the possibility of concluding and renewing loan, credit and financing contracts from credit and other financial institutions without presenting the necessary evidence of insurance information. For both the owners of tourist buses and our farmers, these two provisions are measures to facilitate and support them. These are measures which are part of the wider and wider support framework, which we have planned and which has been implemented since the pandemic principle. Both the tourism sector as a whole and our primary production industry together with all the professional sectors, with all the professionals and workers to whom they are linked, suffered from the pandemic. But next to the whole world of the economy that was affected, the government of Mr.Mitsotakis has been practically next door to it. The Government has supported and shielded us the value and perspective of our country's great and competitive comparative advantages between which of course our tourism product and our primary sector is also present. We in the Trikala Prefecture, in a prefecture where the local economy is crucially dependent on tourism and primary production, know this very well. My fellow citizens and the entire Greek society recognize the struggle we do every day. But our effort and struggle do not stop here. They continue uninterruptedly to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, setting strong foundations for the development of our economy and society. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to turn to our fellow citizens and stress that we must all do our utmost to try to vacate our country's society. Unified and collective all together we can achieve a great deal, workers for the common good, for the health and protection of our fellowman and successively for the whole of our society. So everyone for the common good of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Liuta. Mr. Konstantinos Blouchos from New Democracy is called at Step. Get Mr Spankis ready from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the Major Representation consistent with your ideological happyness and your political idiosyncrasy are accusing the Government of criminal reflexes, of devaluing the ESS and responsible for disorganising it and not just. Are you recently engaged in an incomprehensible methodology of a delusional nature, with arson statements and rhetorical fireworks to harm what and whom? I wonder. Because it is at the centre of the health sector to point out that if we all assume that everything is in concentric and informal circles, I think that you have wondered whether it can be isolated and ensured that the prestige and dignity, credibility and validity, morality and humanity of all those who fight and strive today to ensure life. And it seems you're probably taking this cost, no matter how immoral you look, because you don't count anything and nobody in front of your basic choice, that of targeting the government. And that is why let me, as a health worker, be allowed to say that we are talking about ideologicalization of immorality and malignant populism. We have therefore put special conditions in the public debate, such as medical indicators. We have, however, concealed instantly that all these indicators are the objects of reading and continuous study by specialised professionals in the field and - in information - sometimes confusing them too. And we wanted to use them in a simple and intact way where we shouldn't. The main reason is that they cannot be fully understood and are totally inappropriate to act as a rookie and how much more political indicators. Never are they offered alone to draw conclusions and much more when comparing disparate populations or different resilience systems. But here you politicize the killer itself. As if this is not a murder pandemic, it is a domestic political endemic. And what you diligently hide or ignore is that such indicators are difficult to compare. Why? Because it is a matter of definitions,'multiling' has been described by Mrs Cotanidou, on the globe, as regards the deaths recorded as 'COVID'. It's a matter of screening criteria and not of selecting incidents in ICU. Let me give you a simple example: Incidents in European countries are introduced into ICUs with good reason for their prospect, but this is not tolerable in Greece. It's a matter of the system's objective potential. Clearly. But, what were these possibilities before a crisis? And I would ask you what you mean that our system was not durable or dynamic? Because you're using this definition too. But let us choose one of the indicators, the one of the indicators, which you are working on most for your political stones and say clearly that it differs between populations and changes with time, mainly because of the interaction between this virus's causal factor and its mutations - the host-patients, that is, age groups and their synonymity - and the environment, as well as the available treatments. Do we have one? We don't have one? Who? But, yes, both the validity and the reliability and adequacy of human resources and of course the full quality of medical care and the means to be provided. What do we understand from all this? That health indicators are unmarked and, in particular, political indicators? So let us make it clear that these indicators were and are the objects of studies by health professionals and not objects of political controversy. Because it betrays, for those who choose it, business nakedness and political opportunism. But we must respond to the 'powers' of the system. Have we, as a country, ever had sufficient opportunities to cover intensive care units beds, based on what is defined? Five hundred IF beds did not meet any criteria, ladies and gentlemen. Has there ever been an objective management system for patients who needed IFs? We kept patients with long-range portable respirators in common beds? Of course, yes. Have they ever been without care? Oh, no. Was their prospect fully assured? It's hard to extract. But it was a necessity. And in this precedent, which is impulses, we are talking today about more than doubled the IF beds with the most appropriate logistics infrastructure, which should not be called into question by the most illustrious. And you know what he's impressing? Your class of opacity veil, as far as intensive treatment units are concerned. It's like they can hide all this. And the equipment and medical equipment, Mr. Polakis, and of course the ITH beds on the ground. And since we've secured a larger number of these beds, could we be bigger? Did we ensure adequacy? Here too, it seems clear how paradoxical and how inappropriate such questions are being used. We are talking about ICUs, ladies and gentlemen, particularly sensitive environments and those operating in this area in terms of absolute specialisation. The potential of the system is staggered when those covered by medical staff, intensifiers in this case, are exhausted, because there are simply no intensifiers objectively or are not baptized. How will they be covered - I would ask the former Minister Blonde, but is Mr Paulakis here - the critical sections when human resources do not exist? I wonder how. The rest of the staff also require specialization, but also adaptation. There are no such conditions long ago for Greek reality. And do you not know that to a large extent the coverage of nursing staff concerns PPC and not PT or PT? And you are oversimplifying what in clinical practice is the most complex process and is about the need for the intubation and management of the severely ill. These patients are not automatically beamed in a IF bed. And many times it makes it difficult for the project of the stay when the neighboring hospitals have full coverage and when the process in a more remote intensive care facility is considered insecure. And, of course, tubes outside the ICU become a forced option, due to the massity of the incidents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And there is no need for dusts, ladies and gentlemen, for our Members to understand that we have reorganized a weak system. But what causes you micro-party pain, political ribbon, Mr Polakis, ladies and gentlemen, and your breath is being cut, is that yes, this government will not support the chronic and structural diseases of the system that suit you, because we are determined - when and as we should - to give new perspective to the national, public, health system that reflects on the real and essential quality of service for all citizens. Before closing this intervention, Mr President, allow me - and I thank you for the tolerance - to remember a reminder of scientific studies. You have tried to open a political pit with a study and you have fallen into it themselves, because scientific studies are classified, ladies and gentlemen, and their strength is always evaluated. Observations studies also have the lowest power to prove, and that is because many of their inherent methodological errors are. You have spoken of unanswered fundamental questions and of the hard elements that yes, they are ruthless, but they are not unique. And the questions you ask and the topic you choose show both the degree of hypocrisy and your irrationality. Inviting the Prime Minister to know scientific studies for a specialised area, what do you say? That Mr. Chiodras, because he's his interlocutor, too, is his scientific charge? On the other hand, would you describe him as "hybrid" like Mr. Blonde of the country today? Have you ever wondered about the hard indicators of morbidity and mortality in the ESS, its good times? Are you trying to convince me everything's happening now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u225	And close, with this, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u226	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is the ERC inequality now coming about? The unequal distribution of centre and periphery now too? Which, yes, clearly and affects the quality of health services. And because you're a scientist, there's a multitude of international literature that will enlighten you about how the scientific community works and what international experience. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now quite clear that the debate in Parliament on health management is moving in two concentrating circles, one on the full knowledge of the field, on the one hand and that of malicious hypocrisy. It was said:'rather than train doctors, they broaden the impunity'. You spoke of the continuing education that does not exist. So since you are insulting the medical world of the country, we inform you that it is a very clear obligation for the doctors to keep up with their continuing education and continuing training. And that's just how they save credibility and validity. And those who respect themselves, that's what they do. But let's assume they don't, I'm going to tell you the efforts at the level of a D.C.: High-flow training by specialist pneumonologists in all hospitals. Over 20 videoconferences in COVID management both in hospitals and in primary school. Infections Committees of the U.S. which organised have guided and guided, conducting supervision and controls. All hospitals in networks with reference hospitals for exchange of information and guidance. Continuous procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, at least in the health sector, whether we agree or not, let it not be by its boredom between us directed confrontation, but be honest. Happy holidays, good health to everyone. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, may I speak for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u228	No, not one. You're on 31. You will speak, Mr. Polakis. You know the rules. Don't embarrass me. No one else can catch the plane.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u229	Because he made a medical qualification...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u230	Mr Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Zachariadis is being prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many times in this Chamber I have the impression that SYRIZA is an inseparable ship. It says a dry "no" at all. I do not want to say that you do not read the bills, because your rapporteur is also a man who reads, but also those who have spoken, spoke in particular. But your final attitude finally shows that you are an unrelenting ship, that you do not know what we are bringing to Parliament for vote. We are therefore bringing in a bill that resolves procedural matters here. I shall refer specifically to the fact that we can be understood to the Greek people who are watching us. However, there is also a bill that goes beyond the health issues of other ministries. Issues are solved and streets are opened. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, opens up ways not only to health, but also to local communities. And let me start with my reference to Article 61. In Article 61 of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the concession of the public areas of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas in the municipality of Greek - Argyroupolis, in the Municipality of Glyfada, in the municipality of Alimos. And the question comes: Will the opposition vote against such an article? So I wonder what Greek, Argyroupoli, Alimos, Glyfada would say? There are opportunities for local self-government, such as becoming the city hall of Greece - Argyroupoli, the mansion that will house the history of Pontian Hellenism, the Association of Sourmenes, the opportunity to become a musical school that exists today in Alimos and we want to see something different in the southern suburbs. So these possibilities give them a bill that can come at Parliament's last meeting - because Parliament is actually stopping work on legislative work today - but important solutions are being given. And you come to say today that "we have not been able to read a hundred forty-seven articles"? If that's possible! There are specific amendments on which I sincerely await your position. So you're going to disagree on the ambulance market, on the reinforcement of the EMCDDA? And then you go out on TVs and the media and say that we don't support the health system! So you come here and you vote against the ambulance market? So decide which suit you'll wear in the House and what suit you'll wear out of the House. Your right to wear a tie or not, but decide whether to wear the same suit or change a suit when you leave here! In any case, there are important provisions in this bill and they are worth mentioning. As for the evidence, for years 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025. The relevant State Secretary, Mr Besiropoulos, will also mention them in the Chamber. So we are also motivating the evidence and so that we can combat tax evasion. Because we also reinstated provisions that were not there, such as a 3% tax rebate, when you paid a one-off payment. But I do not hide from you that in 2022 we need to take further initiatives, and we will take them, to reward consistency, because we are also being watched by consistent taxpayers to whom we must give additional incentives and reward them. However, ladies and gentlemen, this bill also sets out provisions such as Article 54 for the Committee on External Economic Relations to resolve tax disputes. For this government gives opportunities and resolves issues and sees the Greek taxpayer in good faith. Allow me to go to other issues, such as financial relief for both citizens and businesses. So what brings this bill? Discharge from HNVY for three years for the earthquakes affected in Crete. So what are you going to say, rapporteur? That we in Parliament voted against the discharge to the European Parliament for those affected by earthquakes in Crete? We also have provisions such as extending the application of reduced and excessively reduced VAT rates for certain goods and services up to 30 June 2022. Prolongation of the suspension of the donation tax to public entities. The possibility of transferring real estate, donations or parental benefits made from 1 January 2022 is granted and the tax is calculated on the basis of objective values in force on 31 December 2021. And of course, we have extended the possibility of paying reduced traffic charges to the owners of tourist buses and for 2022. However, we also have other arrangements, such as facilitating export companies through the possibility of depreciating costs of obtaining the right to enter and place products in foreign stores, as well as the costs of promoting promotion and advertising. Extension of cleaning and disinfection contracts for three months. Are you going to vote against these provisions? We also say that the TEDO is responsible for carrying out the work of branching and logging forests in areas where electricity networks are going through, with a view to preventing extreme weather phenomena. So are you going to vote against this? Or are we squatting? We're not batting anything. We are simply trying to bring in a framework and flexiblely to address the issues that concern citizens, local government, local communities, primary health care, our hospitals, which we are currently strengthening. And we will never stop saying that within a short period of time we more than doubled intensive care units, increased care units. You saw the document that the Prime Minister submitted to you from this Step a few days ago in the budget debate, that in 2018 the situation in health was much worse. And what do you come to tell the Greek people? [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Honestly from this Step, I would like to congratulate Thanos Ploris, the new Minister of Health, who makes a very important effort to deal with both small and large problems. I must congratulate him on dealing with the small issues and with the requests of Members, of all the parties, of all the regions. We must not tire out such efforts that are made personally by the Minister for Health. On the contrary, we have to be good here in this difficult task, when right now, every day, we strive to be fewer insulated. What do you do, though? Coming in and throwing oil into the fire. That's what you do, Mr. Polakis, and you personally. With these logics, you will be judged and taken back the country for many years. We won't allow you to do that, though. For you have the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis who responsibly looks into the Greek people in the eyes. Because you have been judged for your policy. We will be judged at the end of the four-year period. And that's where we're gonna do the suma and see you for good. Happy holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u233	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u234	I would just like to put forward, Mr President, additional legislative improvements to the articles of the other ministries. I would also like to say that Ministerial Amendments Nos 1181, 1182, 1183 and 1184 are accepted. These are four ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Minister. I would ask that photocopying be given in order to share with my fellow rapporteurs, specialist speakers and all Members in good time. Now Mr. Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. You know that from Members of the New Democracy, Mr. Spanakis is my favorite. I haven't hidden it, anyway. But I don't want a nine-minute speech. Within ten seconds I can say that in many places it was foul. Because, you know, Mr Spaniard, there is an oral vote. Obviously a lot of what you said is fine and we will vote on it. You don't have to get on the Step and make sure that we're against taking ambulances, etc. The second thing I want to say is this. Whether you're two years of MP, or you're forty years that some people are, especially from your wing, here we have a process of unspeakable, glorious legacy. Mr. Plori's shoulders have been caught carrying out all the legislative work. We have legislated today what we have not legislated for two and a half months. There's a limit, a shame. And don't think the world that's watching us from the Parliament's channel doesn't understand the process of legislating. Ten Ministers passed. It was a more complex parliamentary procedure than the budget. Bring back and bring back. Don't you think that story should be over at some point? Let's have a three-day conversation to talk like human beings, talk all over the matter. Today we're from morning to ten. More and more. Anyway. I'm gonna get into the bill matter now. Let's go to celebrations. We need these holidays to be safe and healthy. Mr Ploris said earlier - correct me, Minister - that we have reached the average of the European Union's vaccination. Didn't you say? Didn't you say we got past him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u237	When the first dose vaccinations are completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u238	That's very good. I want to say good. However, I would like to ask why, since we are converging in the rate of vaccination in Europe, and I wish we could overcome them, we have double deaths? Why is that? Before I came to talk, I went to do the third dose. And I did it because first of all I love myself, I love my friends, my family, and I feel responsible for social solidarity. And the vaccine is a great weapon that science gave us in the face of this difficulty, and we should all do it. And I say it from the Step of the House: Go now and book an appointment for a first or third dose. But that's not all, Mr. Plearis. It's the NSA, too. What's wrong with you? The study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra says exactly what ESS we have. This is why we have double deaths in Greece in relation to the other Western European countries. Because we are at the speed of Eastern Europe and from these countries we are a little better. I don't think we should celebrate. It turns out that the battle we fight with the pandemic is a marathon. I've eaten Mr. Voridis' ears on televisions, radios, announcements, calmly in the House, shouting in the House for a month and a half and saying: Teleworking, teleworking, teleworking. Mr. Mitsotakis said yesterday that you were thinking about teleworking. Okay, think about another semester, it's been a month and a half to see what's coming out. They apply it throughout Europe. However, I also hear an argument saying: 'How does SYRIZA come out and talk about teleworking since Parliament voted against the teleworking bill'? And I wonder, really, these people who say these things - the top ministers, the Vice-Presidents of the parties, Members of Parliament, I think - do not understand the need at this time not to make micro-party, micro-political controversy, but to stand on the ground? Obviously we voted against Mr Voridis's teleworking bill, and we were confirmed why it was clipboarded, written on the knee and inapplicable. In other words, instead of asking the Minister and the Prime Minister why he does not apply something that he has legislated and enchanted in Parliament, he asks Civicism because he asks the Minister to implement something that he voted and does not apply. Isn't that crazy? Isn't that insanity? To say something, while applying teleworking in Belgium by 100%, in the Czech Republic, Portugal, Austria, the Netherlands. Keep the House open tomorrow and bring the setting for teleworking now, not on 5 January. Because you're gonna do it, you can't do it. And that's where you'll change it and in schools you'll change it. And listen to us because the way you handle things you take us to Lockdown, while you say you don't want to become a lockdown. How can it not be a lockdown? We have double deaths from the European Union's average. We've got a hell of a spread in the community. We have the Tsiodra - Lytra study which says that as four hundred beds we go well, but from there and above we get wet. We've got seven hundred tubed up. So if we have five times the average, we won't? What are we gonna do? We're gonna watch people die in the halls, in the waiting areas, in their homes, and we're gonna say we don't do and denounce SYRIZA? Can you explain to me, Minister, how does the Prime Minister make the decisions? It says: 'I have received recommendations'. For tracking, I'm saying, for self test, whether people are gonna rapid test or self test. And then Mr Vatopoulos comes out and says they haven't met in 15 days. Who are they suggesting to the Prime Minister? And what criteria does the Prime Minister decide? And how is epidemiological surveillance in Greece? It's the first things we told you about. Because the Prime Minister comes out and says we don't put back and that we're absent, etc. I told you I'd be vaccinated and I want the ESS to be strengthened, and I'm making specific proposals, but you want a caricature. You want to put us across the street to shoot us, because you're accelerators of all the crises you're managing. If you see, Mr Pleis, and the Prime Minister's statements and statements made by Mr Kikilia for a year - you, not a year, much less - will see that you are always seeing better days and things are always worse. So who's to blame? We're making a counter-proposal review to fix five things, or are you always saying things are going better and in the end they're going worse? Or do you guys do a math statistic, and don't you see where the country's going? Or do you who don't take advantage of time when the pandemic is in recession for the next pandemic wave? Or are you who now aren't planning on the Omicon mutation? What are the measures you are preparing to take for the 'Omicon' mutation when they take all these measures in the other European countries? Leave what SYRIZA says, let go of what the Change Movement says, let go of what the other parties say. Well, there's a very serious problem here. And instead of celebrating, instead of bragging, see the problem and hear any suggestions. So I close my speech. You are completely unresponsive to the period. You're absolutely unresponsive of the days. You cannot give way to the major crises that the country is facing, and that leads the country to a greater health crisis, to the fifth wave and to the government to a dead end. The government may be at a dead end, but the country has no dead ends. The country must seek another policy to manage crises. The more you manage the crises, the worse things will go. We learned from the second, third and fourth waves. Let's not live the fifth wave with you. It's gonna be catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u239	The floor will be taken by the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos, in order to place him on the amendment with a general number of 1181 and a special 77, but also on the articles of the bill mentioned in the Ministry of Finance. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Health includes, among other things, provisions of the Ministry of Finance, provisions which have undeniable positive meaning and reflect the strong will of the government to reduce tax burdens, support and facilitate citizens, while providing tax incentives. In particular, with Article 45 we continue to support the earthquakes of Crete and especially the property owners who have suffered damage. We are introducing legislation which has been exempted from the ETUC for a total of three years, namely for 2021, 2022 and 2023. Article 46 provides for the extension of the VAT rate of 6% by the end of June 2022 to cover the consequences of the pandemic: firstly, the excess rate of VAT for certain medical materials needed to carry out dialysis, such as filters and dialysis and dialysis lines, but also for means of personal protection and hygiene for virus protection. Secondly, the reduced VAT rate of 13% for admission tickets to zoos and thirdly, the reduced VAT rate of 13% for the import of art objects. A measure with undeniably a positive target is the extension until June 2022 of the suspension of the donation tax to legal persons of a non-profit character through Article 47. A measure aimed at strengthening the charitable and humanitarian work carried out by these bodies. The same goes for Article 48, which provides for the suspension of the obligation for private chronic dialysis units to pay the State 5% of their hospitalisation. An additional substantial measure is envisaged in Article 49 to facilitate citizens. The extension until 31 January 2022 of the deadline for drawing up contracts for transfers of immovable property, provided that the relevant declarations have been submitted to the tax office by 31 December 2021. The government continues to disguise the needs of society. We know that recently there has been increased movement and workload in mortgages and notaries by citizens who have rushed to catch up on this deadline. This extension facilitates the relevant procedure. An exceptionally important approach towards limiting tax evasion, but also to tax relief for citizens, is the provision contained in Article 50 on providing incentives for transactions by electronic means. We want, not only to strengthen the culture of e-commerce in the market, but also to link to essentially incentives for citizens. That was the election commitment of our government. In particular, Article 50 provides for the following. Firstly, for tax years 2022 to 2025, each natural person’s taxable income may be deducted from the taxable income of employed persons and pensions, business activity and immovable property, equal to 30% of expenditure by electronic means of payment to specific professional sectors. Secondly, for the tax years 2022 to 2025 the costs incurred by electronic means relating to the health sector will be twice as high as their value for the 30% limit on expenditure. Article 51 deals with the need to extend the deadline for examining applications for entry into Article 5c of the Income Tax Code until 17 January 2022. This post is included in the tax incentives established by our Government to attract new tax and investment residents to Greece. Article 52 regulates the question of the time of entry into force of Article 48a of the Code of Income Tax on the conditional exemption of legal persons resident in Greece from the capital duty. This is so that the time of entry into force of the transitional provision in Article 48a of the Income Tax Code coincides with the time of entry into force for the recognition of losses. In Article 53 the Government also intends to support professional groups and activities which have been particularly affected by the consequences of the pandemic. This arrangement simulates the traffic charges of tourist buses for the year 2022 to be in line with the traffic charges of the long-distance buses. Similar simulation was made at the beginning of the year and in 2021. This is a significant reduction, since it is the category of tourist buses up to forty places that traffic charges are falling from EUR 430 to EUR 215. While for the category of forty-one and over-purpose tourist buses, traffic charges are falling from EUR 595 to EUR 300. Article 54 concerns the Committee on External Economic Relations, a committee with a particularly important task to date. In particular, issues are regulated for the collection and regulation of the amounts resulting from the extrajudicial resolution of tax disputes in order to facilitate both the work of the Committee and the tax administration. Article 55 seeks the absolute protection of the financial provision of funeral expenses in connection with the joint or administrative execution of any lender. This legislation establishes the irrevocable and inappropriate cost of a funeral paid by public bodies. It is explicitly foreseen that this amount cannot be committed, seized or offset by secured debts to tax administration, public administration, municipalities, regions, insurance funds or credit institutions. Article 56 extends until 1 January 2023 the suspension of an increase in the rents of buildings paid by the Greek State and the public sector for renting real estate in order to maintain stable housing costs for public services. Article 57 provides for the possibility of transfer by means of an exchange between the Greek State and the Region of Central Greece of property belonging to their property in order to carry out the work of building the Court of Justice of Lamia. A substantive measure to support and facilitate the exporting undertakings in the country shall be the possibility provided by Article 58 to amortise the costs of promotion and entry in retail shops abroad, either a single year of their realisation or a quarterly and equal to a five-year period. Article 59 provides for the extension until 31 May 2022 of the existing cleanliness and storage contracts concluded by the Ministry of Finance and the AIAE, while Article 60 provides for the possibility of concluding decontamination services contracts by the Ministry of Finance and AIAE by the procedure of direct award until 31 March 2022 in the context of the prevention of the further spread of pandemic and the protection of public health. In addition, public property issues are regulated by provisions of the draft law. Article 61 provides for the possibility for the Greek State to take a decision by the competent body of the Ministry of Finance to take ownership of the Municipality of Greek – Argyroupolis of a particular public area within the metropolitan pole of Greek – Agios Kosmas. This provision concerns the Municipality of Greece - Argyroupoli and its citizens, which benefit from the operation of public services and activities of a public interest. Article 62 provides for the possibility of granting the right to use a hayaloo, beach, seaside and bottom where the above areas are present with extensions or improvements that are functionally linked and which are an organic whole to existing projects, provided that a decision on environmental conditions of GDP has been adopted for the whole of this project. Article 63 amends Article 10 of Law 4831/2021 on an organisation of the Legal Council of the State, which concerns the timing of the ratification for members of the Board of Directors and of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors. Article 64 extends for a further period of three months until 31 March 2022 the possibility for the auditing mechanisms of the Ministry of Development and Investment and the regions of the country to check the incidents of unjustified appreciations in priority products for citizens' welfare or for products related to health protection against CIVID-19. Finally, Article 65 amends Law 3959/2011 with a view to strengthening the independence of the Competition Committee. The amendment is based on Directive 2019/1, according to which national competition authorities should have sufficient qualified personnel capable of carrying out thorough legal and economic assessments in order to enable them to perform their duties effectively in the application of the competition rules. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me at the end of my speech to refer to the amendment number 1181 and a specialist number 177 tabled by the Ministry of Finance. Article 1 of the amendment provides that the funds raised in the special account of the Bank of Greece by donations from natural and legal persons to cover exceptional expenses due to the coronary will be allocated for the provision of seventeen ambulances to meet the needs of the EKRD. Article 2 of the amendment provides for the free and fair transfer of all PPC shares. which belonged to TIADED, the Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A.- S.A.-S.E.S.P. - that is, the Supreme Council. This is in order for PPC's 34.12% share capital to be held by a single legal person with a shareholder in the Greek State, i.e. the Greek State. Article 3 allows advertising expenditure to be deducted from the company's gross income by 30% for the year 2022. The scope of those who benefit from this arrangement is widened. It is not only about companies that will see the relevant expenditure deductible. It concerns advertising companies, digital media, production companies, the media, the entertainment sector. Advertising expenditure in 2022 shall be at least 105% of the amount of advertising expenditure in 2019. It is recalled that the provision of Law 4728/2020 provides that advertising expenditure should be deducted from the company's gross income at 100% for the 2020 tax year and 60% for the 2021 tax year. Article 4 of the amendment provides for the deletion of the requirements of the Greek State by OSE in respect of interest and accrued or future debt obligations arising from the bond loan with maturity on 12 June 2037. In fact, this regulation serves in the public interest, the economic survival of the OSE and the more efficient management of the railway infrastructure leading to the improvement of the quality of the services provided. Finally, Article 5 of the amendment resolves the issue of accounting in the budget of the ‘Physical Institute of Plants’ for the financial year 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, through this draft law, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is faced with emergencies, moves towards substantial interventions, support measures, facilitates citizens. Management of the effects of the pandemic is not static. It requires constant intervention. We continue with works, stand by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Christos Gokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem that has been created and continues to be tackled, unfortunately with the loss of tens of our people every day, the government continues with many contradictory messages. Last contradictory message was the rapid test for vaccinated, which strengthened doubts. The Government refuses proposals, such as those which we are constantly putting forward, to strengthen the National Health System, to organise primary health care, to give serious information on vaccinations, measures, and to respect the measures taken and our proposals for the crowding of both public transport, which are still an outbreak of dispersion, or in the small classes with twenty-seven and twenty-eight pupils. Minister, the National Health System is suffering. Today I have tabled a report on the dramatic situation at the Arta Hospital as described by the workers who have exhausted every limit of their strength. Please see it and act immediately. Of course, the same happens in other hospitals. Our rapporteur, Mr Poulas, referred in detail to the arrangements of the pandemic bill. For my part, I shall refer to the articles in the transport and infrastructure sector. On the subject of TRAINOSE, Article 79. TRAINOSE was purchased by the Italian "TRENITIA" on SYRIZA in 2017 with 45 million, when the 300 million bid the previous government had been considered as a sale by SYRIZA. However, it also continues to have favourable and privileged treatment by the New Democracy Government, which has prepared the new SGEI agreement, i.e. the barren lines, for 15 years with also 50 million a year, i.e. 750 million in total. We will vote for the provision for the two months to extend this agreement, but we expect to see the new agreement and its content and to put it there in detail on all matters. I'm going to the next topic on Patras to Tower. In Article 82 we have the ratification of the agreement of 15 December 2021, one more amendment to the concession contract, on Elefsina - Corinth - Patras - Tsakona motorway. It is an anti-parliamentary practice, first of all, to discuss this agreement as an article in a billed Christmas, otherwise imported as a bill from the Ministry of Health. A separate debate should be scheduled in the Committee on Production and Trade and ratification in the House. We have also followed the controversy between SYRIZA and the New Democracy on responsibilities and oligopoly, on burdening the public on the cost of the project, but without self-criticism about the responsibilities that everyone has in not implementing the project to date. The construction of the section Patras - Tower to remind you had been delayed for eight years after the vote of Law 4219/2013 on the revisions of the motorway conventions. We also voted for the 2007 conventions. In spite of our strong reservations, we had then described these conventions as lionies because of the great national importance of motorway projects. The 2013 contracts left the company "Olympia street S.A.", this part which, following the pressure of our local MPs and our own, as PASOK, was decided by the government at the time to build as a public project and the tendering procedure took place in 2014. Then, by government of SYRIZA, we had the known partitioning of the project to eight contractors. Four and a half years were lost without work by 2019, but after two and a half years of New Democracy's government, the road is at zero. Sadly, though, human lives are perpetually lost in a carnival road. I would like to stress that in every positive development we do not say 'no'. What is of interest to all of us is our fellow citizens at Pyrgos and Patras, Elia and Achaia, in western Greece at last to acquire the rightful motorway, the motorway that will ensure road safety, but also the motorway that is a development project, which supports transport, transport, production and trade, tourism. As far as individual issues are concerned, firstly, it seems, firstly, that it was a mistake to finally withdraw from the 2013 concession contract, since today and after eight years, the concessionaire takes at least what he needed at the time and remains to see what is going on today, that is to say, what is hidden in the details of the two-and-a-half amendments to the contract. Has the construction of the project been considered in accordance with L.4219/2013, i.e. as a public project, which could have been auctioned by the current government? Instead of public work, we have a concession contract and this means tolls, it means tolls for the citizens, a three-year surcharge on tolls, amounting to EUR 126 million. Here, of course, it must apply to local road users at least a reduced charge. Thirdly, what amount will shareholders contribute, beyond EUR 10 million of the captive investment, and how much will their revenues be, and what is the difference in participation for the concessionaire between 2013 and 2021? These questions cannot be answered today. At some point they have to be answered and they would have been answered if the procedure went as it should have been for the ratification of this convention. The project is to be completed in forty months, that is to say, at the end of 2025 at the best, perhaps in 2026 and not at the end of 2023 or at the beginning of 2024, which the Minister said today. It's just math. It's not coming out. It's almost three and a half years contract. That contract is foreseeable. Priority is also defined in the section of Lower Achaia - Tower. For the first section, Patras - Lower Achaia, is there a problem and what is it? Is it technical or otherwise? In any case, the important issue is strict observance of the timetable, because Western Greece is no longer with the current situation. The last: With the amendments to the original contract, there is the construction of the section of Patras - Tower, seventy-four kilometers and five hundred meters, instead of Patras - Tower - Alphios, eighty-seven kilometers and four hundred meters of the original contract. The Tower - Alphios, thirteen kilometers, is referred to in the future after the landmarks of the area, but without a specific time horizon, while the Alphios section - Good Water - Chacona, seventy-seven kilometers and two hundred meters, remains out of every design. To close, the issues and the questions raised are: First, there is the request of the Municipality of Tower to build four kilometres further, so that the motorway reaches the entrance of the Tower and not the point at which it is planned, on the link between Chania and Hanakia, and this should be dealt with positively, if we do not reach the entrance of the Tower. Also, what is the timeline and what programming for the construction of the Tower - Alphios section and connection to Ancient Olympia, without which Olympia are we talking about? What is the government's planning, if any, for the completion of the motorway with the construction of the section from Alpheus to Chacona? What is the policy and what legal commitment to the completion of the project ultimately? Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of the construction of the project. This is our main option. However, it must not be the subject of micro-party confrontation, but it must not be an opportunity for economic exploitation, particularly at the expense of the citizens. We are positive, however, with a view to the completion of both the Tower - Alphios and the Alphios - Good Water - Chacona, and it is absolutely essential to make the commitment and programming for these sections as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Goka. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Constantine Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, a bad way to legislate by a bad government, led by a Prime Minister, who reluctantly comes to the National Representation and lies. Without a sense of responsibility for the management of a great difficulty that the country is experiencing, the prime Prime Minister comes without empathy and lies to the Greek people, he lies to the National Representation. This Prime Minister has a name, he is relentlessly invoked by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who heads the government, comes and lies to the Greek people. On December 1st, about twenty-two days ago, this Step said, moving the finger to the opposition, that there is no study to prove that mortality outside intensive care units is greater than mortality in intensive care units. In fact, he said that this study was nowhere to be found and asked for the Qualified Opposition. A few days later, Mr. Tsiodras, the dear Lefteris, the government - as Mr. Mitsotakis called it - and Mr. Lytras, two executives, said two members of the Committee on Infectious Substances had delivered a study that shows exactly the opposite. Mr Mitsotakis, however, did not stop his lies there, but came a few days ago during the budget debate, on Saturday, he closed down and said that this study was not delivered to Maximos. This is where a kitten starts. Mr. Ploris comes out and says the Department of Health has not received any study. Maximo did not receive any study. And I ask, Mr Plouris, since you are legal: is Mr Mitsotakis not the head of government? Is he responsible only for the Maximism of his friends, four people who run the country, beyond and outside the wishes and the beliefs of the Members of the New Democracy? Don't you think he's head of the government? Does it not belong to the narrow core of the government, a Secretary-General who has been chosen either by you or Mr Mitsotakis, and should the study be delivered to him? So Mr. Mitsotakis not only lies, but he has a study that proves things beyond and outside the things you do for the management of the pandemic and does absolutely nothing. And it's coming today, the big boynama, since it's Christmas days. And everyone who knows about journalism, like you ex-major, knows we have the boyna. Who's today's boynama? Mr Ploris announced today that he gave an extension, a right to non-vaccinated sanitary animals until - if I recall, Mr Ploris - in March to be vaccinated to reintroduce into the health system, otherwise, as he described, there will probably be redundancies. It is the plan that you have had from the outset, Mr Mitsotakis and his friends, namely, Maximou, in your mind - not you, Madam Member - who are taking a step-by-step. It's the collapse of the public health system. They want a public health system for their friends, the clinicians, who are currently making money from the Ministry of Health's decision to make the public health system with only COVID incidents and cancel scheduled surgery and send it all to private clinicians. All these people want to privatize the public health system to make more money for their friends. This is a step-by-step plan that you have been implementing all this time. When? When we have exceeded the twenty thousand deaths of our fellow people and you do nothing, but nothing at all, so that you can help our own patients but their families and avoid further losses of our fellow people as a society. The "Omicon" mutation is present. He's here. Mr. Sarigiannis, if I'm not mistaken, went out and said today that we're too close - if it hasn't already been decided - to go to Lockdown. You make decisions, Mr. Plouris, plus your friends at Maximos, without the Committee on Infectiouss, which you hear otherwise! What did you announce? Rapid test for vaccinated and invasive. And here we have the complete collapse of the entire account that you had in recent years supported through Mr Mitsotakis and what you were saying here. So we don't have a pandemic of invasives. We have a pandemic in which, unfortunately, our country is irresponsible because it has the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Mitsotakis who are doing absolutely nothing. So the "Omicon" mutation is here. You do things beyond and outside the proposals of Anti-Population, SYRIZA, the Movement of Change and aggregation of Anti-Population in the country. You don't listen to anyone, considering you alone can manage the pandemic. And we've reached this clay spot. And that is why it is time for you to leave the country's governance so that a progressive government takes over the fates of the country and save at least now those of our fellow human beings we can save. Because, unfortunately, you do nothing. Mr President, give me ten seconds. I have tabled an amendment which I imagine you have read, or if you have not read it, to inform you. It concerns Article 35 - if I am not mistaken, if the numbering of the bill has not changed - for the exemption for a further two years from the HPAI of Crete due to the fact that it has been classified as an earthquake area. Let me inform you, Mr President, that as well as in Preveza, obviously in other regions in the country, a major earthquake has occurred since February 2020 where we have had many disasters in shops, houses, schools, infrastructure in general. It had become a discharge for a year by n.4223/2013 due to an earthquake and for Preveza. I would, however, ask for this amendment, Mr Minister, that other regions, of course, should be included in this scheme, with a general number of 1180 and a special number of 176, so that there can be a discharge for the Presidencies, for my own region. You don't have, you don't have, help the first process of business and people rebuild with compensation for their property, but at least you can relieve for two more years and Preveza from the HISA. I think it's a reasonable requirement. I repeat, it is not just about Preveza, but because I am there elected, it is my constituency and it is about me, I have tabled this amendment, and I would like, Minister, if it is easy for you, to answer whether or not you are accepting this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u245	The speaker of the Change Movement and Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Odysseas Constantinople, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I just read online that there is a meeting with the government to take action.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u247	The Committee on Infectiouss...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u248	I don't want to say the site that says there's already a meeting in Taximos now to decide the measures for the next one. And he says the same thing again. In other words, if someone read Mr Katrin's speech two hours ago, it is about the measures he needs a hundred meetings, a hundred relics to make a decision that has a political cost, but it will save lives and lead us to Lockdown. The big issue started - and there are many responsibilities here - with the vaccination programme, because that is the scientific weapon. The government's been delayed. It is unbelievable that a party that has taken the 8.1% election, which is in the midst of an election campaign to tell people who have been in contact with the public and two parties who have taken a great deal - the world has honoured them - not to think about the general population, but to think about how to "close the eye" to the invasive, who whoever "closed it" - or the government because of the great responsibility or part of the counter-population by telling them that they do not get caught, stalling, delaying one another - have the same effect. Here too, there is one issue, who can behave and who treats people with responsibility. And this proved to be with our infamous President the Phofi Genemas eight months ago and with our new President, who spoke very clearly on this matter. And you should know that citizens no matter what they vote, they understand that we really have an opinion on the subject of life itself, Minister. The Head of the Michalis Katrinis Parliamentary Group, Mr Poulas, Nadia Giannakopoulou and all colleagues spoke very much about these issues, about our proposals. I think everyone understands it. That is why I want to say on two very important issues relating to the operation of legislation, transparency, democracy and an issue that has arisen and I do not understand why it has not emerged and how easily, Mr Minister, you are going through this whole process. Administration of Golden Visa without conditionality check. What are you doing, Minister? Bring an article from the Ministry of Migration Policy that says that those who have applied since 2015 to get Golden Visa without seeing their papers give them one night. The Qualified Opposition, what does it say about it? I want to remind you of what happened in Cyprus with this, Minister. How the matter came to the law office of the current President of the Republic of Cyprus. I don't know, the post. Can we give everyone a visa without any control today? How is that possible? I, however, have not heard the Qualified Opposition about it. Let me hear if they're denounced. So, in fact, here comes what we were talking about about good law-making, Minister. Today you have not brought four amendments. You brought forty articles. We may vote for four amendments, but the four amendments have forty articles, namely nine, nine and twelve. In other words, there is no case at one hour on the night you tabled an amendment to that effect. And I say, why would that happen? Well, a conservative government did this. Why? Is that in the past? Of course there is in the past. The previous government brought in a bill of seventeen amendments in 2018. So, what are we doing here? That's why you don't have a Qualified Opposition because they've done the same. They cannot tell you why you are responding to them children in 2000 as a government in total of two hundred fifty two bills have been tabled eight hundred and fifty four amendments from which the needy were five hundred sixty-seven and the five hundred overdue. For the New Democracy, we'll wait a little while to find out. It's like the poster, SYRIZA was saying he's pulling us off, telling the PASOK the poster, who had reached the ceiling, and New Democracy came and agreed to this whole process. I am tabling the amendments and we will have the next time for the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What does all this mean? That the two parties, SYRIZA and New Democracy, do not want the House to function properly. They want there to be opaque in the way that they themselves ruled, firstly by SYRIZA, and then is New Democracy, in the same way, that is, unnecessarily, amendments of ruptured nature. As Mr Metarakis now brings in the Ministry of Migration Policy. It's exactly the same. It is a difference that we must highlight and we want, because they gave us the mandate of two hundred and seventy thousand people and the new President of the PASOK. Mr. Plori, tell Mr. Mitsotakis that the name is PASOK, don't worry. He wouldn't see it last time. There's always PASOK on the list upstairs, don't worry, because he asked which party, which name. I understand, I'm telling you it's PASOK. So the news we bring to the whole process is that we want a different way of transparency, accountability and at the end of democracy. PASOK, the Change Movement, with the mandate it has taken, will never allow this opacity to exist in the parliamentary process with either SYRIZA or the New Democracy amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u249	We too thank Mr Constantinople and the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, usually when we have a law that contains so many rinsing devices, in substance, of illegal acts, that happens when the regimes are falling apart, when they have been living in the last few days, and there are such anguish of interests. Prepare to leave. But because they are Christmas and New Year's Days, I will not ruin the Mitsotakis government's festive climate, because all the rest of the people are suffering, and I will congratulate you and the Mitsotakis Government and the Prime Minister themselves for his ingenuity. How it cancels European legislation through the law on the treatment of the coronary pandemic. How you have found, in other words, to make the Patras tower to deal with the coronary. How you pay illegal payments and contracts to deal with, kill the coronary. How you break the delays by removing the contests to deal with the coronary. In other words, these pandemic innovations have no precedent in any other country. And, of course, how do you, a European party, which over the years has given rise to change for the so-called independent authorities and regulators, goes beyond all, and the independent authorities and control mechanisms and the Court of Auditors, to kill the coronary. You, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are not government. The three gift magicians are to your own people and your own companies! And for this standard way of managing public money, best practice for public procurement not to comply with European legislation, I think - because we want to make you a constructive opposition - you need to do two things. The first is to bring Commissioner Westager to our country and the European Commission officials to train them. To show them how a government can dismantle any concept of European legislation and how a government through the State of Mitsotakis is moving into a government of jackpots. What is illegal and contrary to European and national law is paid by law. But I would suggest that you put a guise out on the perimeter so you can get an immediate response. So it's illegal to pay and it can't be done? You bring a law to prevent people from running in ministries and organizations. They should come out here and get paid. Have you been recruited illegally? Don't run and make their papers to the various players. Put a goose over here, right on the ground. And in the same logic, so to analyse it, in Article 143 you are extending cleanliness contracts, illegally, to the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the Greek Police. No one understands why and where it's related to the coronary. It does not refer to Parliament - so long as you do not say it now, give us an account - the cost of these contracts, how much extension they get, when you will have ready tenders and integrated ones. In Article 144, in breach of the Financial Code, you extend the contracts and in breach of the decisions of the Council of State and in breach of your own law. To deal with the coronary, what are you doing? You give an alibi to those who have been appointed with ruffles to have the right to appeal and to be permanent. You guys are great! You're artists, you're not government. You're rumors artists! Congratulations! And right after that, you're expanding -Polakis, it's your topic - for Mrs. Nicholas here. Again. Bypass the Court of Auditors. Up to 2 million euros. You guys are great. Really, congratulations! You don't exist. And in the article...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u251	He hasn't gotten...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u252	But he's here. Expansion. Another extension up to 2 million euros. And in Article 145, you're taking the eyes of donors out of your own law. So, up until now, when someone wanted to make a donation, a study, a road, they put the public standard, don't go to kill anyone after. In both devices and materials there was a publicity. You passed this law, not us. You're taking his eyes off, too. Of course, as far as Article 146 is concerned, you are not wrong with the article. Put a title "Get the old lady in the figs", say, a title like that. So, here, what have you done? In a previous law you brought a provision where illegal payments to the EL.AS. they are paid by law, where the former company of the EUPM is paid by law, where illegal accounts in the criminal policy service - not anti-crime - are paid by law. Now you bring about civil protection. You gods are! You're the gods who are born, not Christ at Christmas! Gods! Mr President, you will allow me an elasticity because much has been said about Patras-Tower. But before I came to that, I'd say the following. You bring an amendment - now listen - for two years on FPIs, expenditure, justification for the firefighting, for the port, for the police, for the NDP. After two years, will you still be a government? Will you get the blue tanks down on the streets? So, you're giving an extension to justify the classified costs of these bodies after you're a government? Are you serious? And we're going to Patras tower. How can you not congratulate a government that denounces us - and as opposition when you were and as government now - that we abolished a competition that you had done and did not make a competition for two and a half years? You're directly outsourced. Congratulations! So, you've been denounced for so many years that we have abolished the contest you've allegedly made and made direct assignments? Didn't you do it the first month, the direct assignment? Should it have been two and a half years? You told us that we had eight competitions, to fund through a well-known contractor "SYRIZA-channel". You, with 114 million hats, a high hat and a plaster, which you give to the concessionaires by direct assignment three years of toll revenues, today where the interest rates are, with an IIR of more than 10%, who will you finance, Minister? Because here I have heard Mr Karamanlis, how will the EUR 114 million hat project be cheaper, and with three years of extension of the concession contract, not for Patras - Tower, but for Corinth - Patras - Tower? Of course, how can we not congratulate you when you have thrown tons of mud and brought you two and a half years in a document we ask you to do all that you do? Congratulations! How can we not congratulate you when you pass two and twenty-four pages of contract as a way out, so that the MPs cannot turn aside from an article in the coronary bill? How can we not congratulate you when you have hidden from the citizens the increases in tolls since the first of the month? How can we not congratulate you when one has not said anything about the lie that the Prime Minister himself said, apart from your Minister, that in 2014 you had approved funding when you had not even tabled a major report? How can we not congratulate you when nothing was heard about the fact that the competition you had planned not only had not been approved for funding but was also set up for the same ones you are now directly entrusted? But you didn't even have the gum to contest, even set, as you planned in 2014, in other quantities, fake!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u253	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. How can we not congratulate you on abolishing your own ministerial decision by law illegally, which anyone who calls will never do the work with what you have done? And I have a "congratulations" to give you, when you do what we did, namely when you go along with the complaints we make today to the prosecutor, as we did, when you made complaints. We took them to the prosecutor - you have hidden it from the Greek people - it has been filed, because they have seen the lies you keep saying, and we expect you to show this sensitivity, these complaints we are making today in Parliament, to take them to the prosecutor, as we did. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that after the Christmas and New Year's Days, the week of the Passions follows in spring and the Resurrection. And this Resurrection will be accompanied by the resurrection of the Greek people, because you will leave very quickly with what you do and prove it with the bill-washing machine of the interests and the illegal payments and awards you are making today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u255	The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor now, Mr Nikolaos Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish many years of health for the holy days that are coming and for our homeland better. There's no doubt that the year that passed left indelible marks on us. Today, one year later, we are called upon to vote again on a series of provisions in front of a new wave of pandemic, the one of the 'Nomicon' mutation, which is spreading rapidly and threateningly. This time, however, things are different, because we know that we can now finally win thanks to the super-arm we have, which science, the vaccine has given us. In view of this, I believe that the current provisions for a resolution by the Ministry of Health are in the right direction. I do not want to go into more detail. Dissidents of our resignation have analysed them and supported them thoroughly. At this point I would like to warmly welcome the initiative of our Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis in making two free self tests available to the whole population, with the recommendation that everyone, vaccinated and not, should contribute wisely and responsibly to restoring the new wave of pandemic. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a provision that does not agree with me in this bill. It is provision 73, which, of course, does not have to do with pandemic and extends by one year the deadline for the completion of the process of establishing organised aquaculture areas. One wonders what this deadline is. It is the extension of the extension, it is the third in a row, i.e. three years in 2016 on SYRIZA, two years from our Government in 2019 and a year now and all these extensions in the five years that were given in 2011 on the Government Papademos in 2011. On substance, Minister, I do not agree with Rule 73, and I propose that it should have been withdrawn, because two other actions, firstly, the national maritime spatial planning framework, in which the state will determine what and where in development matters, and secondly, the agreement should have been provided for in all cases of local government in the authorisation procedures for the areas of organised aquaculture development for a simple reason, that some local societies do not want this kind of development. Others want it and others want it in mild and controlled form. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] For example, in my constituency, the first Piraeus and the islands, it changes the development of the islands of Saronic. With the existing forecasts, Saronics will become a large aquaculture industry. And all this, without asking the local government and the islanders. In conclusion, Mr President, I agree with the pandemic bill other than Rule 73, which I have already proposed to withdraw and if there was a roll-call vote on an article, I would vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Manolak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u259	Mr Barkas, you want the floor for a few seconds, to make a correction, to be recorded in the Minutes, right? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, yes, for the Minutes and thank you very much. During my speech, Mr. Chiodra, I mentioned him as Leuter. It's the second time I've been wrong, I apologize to Mr. Chiodra for changing his name from Mr. Sotiris Tsiodra.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u261	All right, it's gonna be corrected in the Minutes, it's gonna get the right one. We will give the floor now - Stepma is ready - to Paul Paul Paul Paulakis from SYRIZA, who is the last speaker and then three other speakers follow through Webex. Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, because I will say a lot and may finally forget, by addressing the Greek people who listen to us, I want to say many years and the new year to have good freedom from the pandemic and from the "Maximus S.A." that has been tying the country for two years! Mr. Ploiros, I will start my speech with this: can you answer me why today - today! - the General Hospital of Trikalons was decided to open three competitions for cleaning, feeding and keeping, to return to the hospital? Mr Blucho told us earlier that we, as SYRIZA, have political ribs, pains on the sides, that is. So I directly denounce you that you are driving the country into a neoliberal policy under a pneumothorax. You know what this is, I guess, is to puncture the lung and collect the air between the lung and the chest wall, suffocation where you die. Can you tell me, Mr. Pleari, this? You as a classic right-wing and neoliberal. We, in these three services at the Trikala General Hospital with individual contracts, gave EUR 570,000 a year. In cleaning, forty - eight cleaners who put in their pocket 700 to 800 euros. You, with the competition you have launched today, will give a total of EUR 573 000 880,000, almost twice as much as you are doing cleanliness will work thirty-two people. These are the elements that have been presented today, without shame, at the General Trikala Hospital. What's that? Conservation of public money or a disgraceful attempt to bring private contractors back and, in fact, with thick misery? I say this directly: why will a EUR 573 000 project be done with EUR 900,000? Answer me! [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Let's go down. I didn't mean to talk today. I heard you, I was upset, and that's what I'm talking about. Mr. Plori, for the ITH, because it's a matter that I know like my trouser's pocket, you won't come here and sell seaweed for silk ribbons and we'll see you with numbers. So you received from us five hundred and fifty - seven beds. There weren't five hundred and fifty seven beds, there were five hundred sixty eight beds, because I'm watching the VI often, and I know what's going on, and I know what's going on, five hundred sixty-eight beds. You never say, of course, that you delivered us four hundred and thirty-eight beds so many. From July 2019 until March 2020, you added no bed! No bed all over the country! In fact - from there you know the number - they were five hundred and fifty five beds, when the pandemic started, because you also had thirteen beds closed, because you made traffic flows of nurses in various hospitals in the country. From there and after two years of pandemic - because now we are not in the first, second month, two years - the real increase you have made is not more than a hundred eighty, let me say two hundred beds. Why are you doing this? Mr. Flouris, were the 200 beds of the private sector ITHs not there before? In the five hundred and sixty eight beds that we announced, we did not include them, because the five hundred sixty-eight were the beds of the public health system that entered the EKA newspaper. Those were two hundred before. Were there three hundred and fifty beds before or were there any special burns, trauma, heart surgery, plastic surgery, MAFs, post-operative, post-aesthetics? Wasn't there before? Plus 50 beds of military hospitals? Wasn't there before? You're putting this on the account, too. How much do we have so far? Five hundred sixty-eight beds we handed you over, two hundred private sector there - which have not been given you and all - three hundred fifty special units and military beds, we reach almost a thousand hundred beds and you say a thousand three hundred beds. Mr. Flouris, the two hundred beds you say you made - the hundred and eighty - are: Forty-five beds with ready equipment in various hospitals we hadn't had time to open, yes, of course. Fifty beds are from the donation of the Parliament to the "Save" and eighty-five beds of various donors - The Foundation "Nigarch", "Greece 2021" - to various hospitals in the country, which you have also opened, usually by moving staff. These are the beds you added. That's the truth. As long as you turn it from here, turn it from there, that's the reality. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] And this finally seems to me, Mr Plearis - I want your tolerance - to say that you made a speech as if we had not arrived today, on December 22, 2021, at twenty thousand and twenty-six deaths. Twenty-thousand and twenty-six! Can you imagine me being in your position how would you and your "slashed" with a number like that? When you led the country to have today as a number of deaths per million population a thousand nine hundred thirty-eight? How much has Sweden, that you didn't want to be Sweden? A thousand four hundred ninety! How many deaths did Sweden have in November? One hundred and six, a hundred seven. How many did we have? Two thousand eight hundred. Is that a success? I won't say much about the Chiodra study. But we can't forget them. Who finally got the study, guys? Who took her? Pinant in Maximus ate it? Who took the study and came here and swinged the finger that there is no study to prove that inside or outside ICU is different. It's like he wants an intellectual claw more than eighty to understand this thing. We proved it to you the other day. And you're talking about meth and meth. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Pluri, since you've made all these beds because the number sticks to the second wave of pandemic in November last year and now around the seven hundred?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u263	There are...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u264	I know there are. I know. Why does it get stuck in seven hundred? You tell me now. On the basis of data from the Tsiodra-Lytra study, it appears that between 1 September 2020 and 6 May 2021 three thousand nine hundred eighteen eighteen out of six thousand two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. And they say that the thousand thirty-five could have been saved. My point is that at the time ten thousand five hundred seventy-seven-six in total died. You know it, but close your eyes. You put your head like an ostrich. The remaining six and a half thousand or twelve thousand, if we take the twenty thousand current deaths, where have they died? In their homes, at the TLP, at the CIVID clinic. Where are the abundant, available beds to intubate and try to save these people? How much more lies are you going to lie? Go out and squeeze and say "we made beds". Courgettes with the oregano you made. And one last. Mr. Plori, in the "State" of Nice, and for this day there were eight IFTH beds in the newspaper of EKAB. There were another six that was the trauma unit. It's been made another six now by donation. How much did we have before, how much did we have after? You say 'eight we had in SYRIZA' and there were fourteen, and now we have twenty because we added all six of the donation. That's the pan-Hellenic image. I'll say two words and if you want to listen to me. It's a huge price for the twenty-thousand dead. You said a lot of things. You said in your speech that we reached 88% more than sixty-five with the requirement. And you're not ashamed to say you're gonna fire the six and a half thousand sanitaries. Restore them because the system needs two, three, four rapid test a week. It is not the luxury of the system to have them on the outside to cover your obsession, the neoliberal on the one hand to legalise redundancies, and on the other, to have it as a fear to be vaccinated. Listen, Mr. Pleari. We've reached 88%. Why do they keep dying? We have now found the record that the third dose is increasing. Then why is Burla and PFIZER preparing a new vaccine in March? If the present one gets caught, why is he preparing it? When I told you in November 2020, "they don't catch them, you guys, the vaccines completely," you said "no, you're an anembolic". Then why are they preparing another vaccine? If he catches it, why are they preparing another vaccine? They announced it. Why? Listen to me. Match the use of monoclonal antibodies. Have you brought...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u265	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u266	"Delta" gets it, Mr. Pleari? Delta is caught. We now have Delta. From Delta, they die. No death has occurred with "Omicon" yet. You've lost so much time. Twenty thousand dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u267	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u268	I'll be done. Because it's not expensive. Well, aren't you ashamed? You're not telling me, Mr. Pleari. Today three thousand six hundred in CIVID clinics are being hospitalized. Of these three thousand six hundred today, three thousand of them have taken Remdesivir. It's an antiviral medicine. All right, they're taking it. It's a five-day treatment. How much is the five-day treatment, Mr. Pleari? Do you know how much it does?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Polakis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u270	It's 2,200 euros. You give them for each patient with an activity that does not exceed 20%-30%. And if that comes in the first few days. And you're saying it's too expensive the other one that the Slovaks got 800. And you don't massage it. Has one of the hundred and fifty, a hundred or eighty-eighties who have taken monoclonal antibodies died? Nobody. Why don't you massage the use and you only have transplants and cancer patients? Match this because for the next month and a half, there's no other way to reduce death. Also, Mr. Plearis, because you dared to say something to pause the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u271	Don't open any more topics, Mr. Polakis. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u272	It's a paragraph. For the matter of medicines and that you are compassionate, let me tell you that last week you took individuals out of prescribing uninsured, and today you say "for some diseases and some medicines I will allow them". Mr. Flouris, I denounce you directly. You did this because at a meeting with the pharmaceutical industry you know that the pharmaceutical cost of uninsured is EUR 300 million. With this, with the difficulty of accessing uninsured prescribing, you will save half of the euro 150 million that is to say, and the other 150 million euros that will be left over will be the reduction of the clawback of expensive drugs. That's why you did it. For no other reason. You should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u273	Close, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u274	But the resurrection comes as Spirji said. Sunday's short celebration. Happy New Year to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u275	Let's go to the three colleagues with Webex. We're starting with Mr. Burhan Barran. Mr. Baran, you have the floor, but I'll beg you next door to put the clock to see the seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u276	I'll be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapid change in the daily habits brought about by the fear of disease from the virus, the forced or voluntary incarceration, the economic pressure and insecurity for the future have led to the worsening of the natural health of the Greeks, which is robbing our country. I call it every day. I have already said so many times, and from the Stepping-up of the House, that there should be substantial awareness and action for greater investment in this area from the government's point of view. Once again, however, it appears that the government has no sense of the pulse of the middle Greek, the middle Greek. The two words that dominate this bill, and in particular Articles 1 to 44 relating to health, are prolongation and settlement. It does not bring anything new into the management of the health crisis. Expansions of subsidiary contracts and staff movements are not covered by any of the staff gaps, in particular in hospitals in the region that suffer even more from subsistence, sub-financing and outdated infrastructure. This tactic has cost a lot. The issue of these permanent extensions must be brought to an end. It is not just the modern, seemingly, hospitals that are in set-aside. To get the engines started, their core core is required. And that's the spirit. It is the health staff who has accomplished his duty by self-renunciation and self-sacrificing and which you fill with false hopes and promises. Even now, after the unequal struggle of health care in public health structures against the virus, you continue to be loyal to your obsessions and attempt with semi-meters and manipulations to fill the gaps of hospitals with temporary employment of private doctors instead of permanent staff. You promised the permanentization of the subsidiary doctors who would give breath and breath to the infested hospitals. But you only stayed in words. And that's all we've already had. Instead of a responsible attitude, you are either putting responsibility to the citizens or trying to hide your inability and inertia behind clandestine excuses. Unfortunately, we still have a long way to go. And many will be the difficulties that will arise in society, but also in the economy. I have stressed from the Step of the House - and I will continue to say it until I am heard - that the need to finance the mental health sectors is immediate, as the World Health Organisation has seen the disastrous impact of the coronary on the mental health of citizens, when the needs are increased because of the situation. Having lived in close proximity to the problems of the psychiatric industry, I would like to state very clearly that the psychiatric incidents that require hospitalization are dramatically increasing, resulting in the endless suffering of patients outside their prefecture for hospitalisation. And all this here, according to the principle that a healthy population should be served by a well-organised health system, as it is a vital issue for the development of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing unprecedented situations with piles of permeated people and tragic numerical losses, as the situation has come off limits and health resistance. At a time when the triumphs in Greek society are evident, our country today as much as it ever needs a strategic plan to prevent and protect citizens in order to deal with the problems caused by the virus, through the collective effort of all political parties, the scientific community and all stakeholders. At last do something. Take care of primary health care. There is no more time to lose, no more luxuries for big words without a reflection. A national action plan is needed. And it's time for brave initiatives. Thank you and wish good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u277	We thank Mr Baran Bourhan, Member of the Change Movement, because he was a specific and oligopoly. And for the best wishes, on behalf of all my fellow Members, we have the best wishes for the holidays that come, always in health. And we continue with the MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Synchronakis. Mr Colleagues, if you can hear us and see us you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u278	And I hear you and I see you. Good evening and thank you very much. The government, in the same way, provoking indifference in the treatment of pandemic is facing all the people's problems caused by its anti-population policy. Allow me to place myself on the provision of Article 45 in relation to the exemption from ENVY for the years 2021, 2022, 2023 of the buildings in areas affected by the major earthquakes of 24 July and 27 September 2021, that is, the year we are in Crete. The JRC will vote 'the present'. This is because the government is mocking, and indeed in the system. Mr. Vesyropoulos just said half the truth. Half the truth is worse than lying. Firstly, if the government were to take substantial relief measures, neither would Mr Stagioras himself, nor would he, by postponing three times, the JRC's timely question on this matter. And he does because he has nothing to say about the deterioration of the situation. Instead of going to substantial measures to secure accommodation, feeding, compensation to earthquake victims in the two municipalities particularly affected, in Minoa-Pedada and in the Municipality of Archanes-Asterousia. Secondly, it is not just the delay in legislating this provision, which is the result of racing claims of the affected and successive parliamentary interventions of the JRC, the main thing with the provision of the HRF is that the exemption does not cover all the affected. For a large proportion of wounded, while his residence or professional roof was declared unsuitable to the first control, in secondary, by magic, the buildings were characterized as green, i.e. residential, so they were set not only out of HISBIA's discharge, but in fact they were also excluded from the notorious state aid for their reconstruction. These owners are forced to resort to repairs with their own money, if the damage costs are lower, equal to or less than the money they have to pay for the file. Thirdly - and more importantly - it is the fact that HNPH is an extra ranch, an extremely expensive rent, imposed on the people's households for their own home, which they built with sweat and blood. So the government does not do a favor which relieves as much as it relieves. The JRC's proposal, which has been tabled as an amendment, is systematically rejected by everyone, and we once again challenge the Government and all parties to place themselves on it instead of ostracizing. Here and now, abolish HISPIA in the first and second residences. In return for the abolition, the firm position of the JRC is to increase the taxation of large enterprises and large real estate. Here's the Rhodes, here's the fuck and the fuck. The affected claim, in any case, that the subsidised costs cover all the losses incurred by their assets, at 100%, without any other burden on the misconduct, engineer, supervision, pre-treatment, ancillary work and so on. However, instead of solving issues, the government sends them to the banks for mortgage loans, and this if they meet the criteria set by them. And not only that, but the infamous state compensation that the government gives is limited to 50 square feet of property which has been damaged and not to the whole of it. Furthermore, the issue of a building repair licence is not compensated as a separate cost but is included in the already low and out-of-real tariffs of the natural disaster impact management, the well-known ADAB, with 2011 constructional prices - please - and with a 20% surcharge. However, for the last year only estimates have been recorded from 20% to 60% in building materials. With these measures by the Government, the economically weakest owners of red buildings are at risk of being out of the process and ultimately homeless, where, for example, the subsidy is EUR 500 per square metre for the crumbling, licence and construction, at a time when the building of armed concrete has exceeded EUR 1,300 per square metre, or if the owner does not have the financial capacity to submit a file, the demolition costs are borne by him without any State aid. Or will the municipalities bear the costs for the preparedness, when for emergencies, including the demolition of dangerous buildings, the government, by way of exception, granted them the funny amount, totalling EUR 1,000,000. Only for the demolition of a building the cost by individuals who make demolition costs 70,000 euros to up to 120,000 euros, only for one building. The situation is getting worse even in the simplest and most obvious things. Firstly, the need for temporary housing has not been met with human living conditions. Of the four hundred twenty houses requested by the Municipality of Minoa - Pedestrians, the government promised them a hundred twenty-four, some time ago it went down to ninety-nine - that is minus twenty-five - and they have received seventy. The Municipality of Arhanon - Asterousia has asked the Ministry of Infrastructure for forty homes and twenty-two have come. After three months the government did not solve the elementary, which is temporary housing. Secondly, the rent allowance platform has not yet been opened. Thirdly, no eco-machine compensation has been granted. Fourthly, the world does not have easy access to food. Fifthly, there are shortcomings in household equipment. There are housekeepers entering water and flooding everything, even the beds that children sleep. Even the current in the houses came just the day before yesterday, under protests from the wounded. Three months later, while there are even some housewives who do not have electricity. Sixthly, the exceptional financial support of EUR 600 has not been given to anyone affected. While the EUR 534 for the suspension of contracts of employment, up to three months, are crumbs. It's over. And people have Christmas before them. How are they gonna get through? For the self-evident, not a word. So what? That exceptional aid must be granted, financial aid, to ensure income for all affected workers, to the extent of their needs and to an increased unemployment benefit for all unemployed, without any conditions. There must be a suspension of payments to PPC, water, on the phone for all those who have suffered damage until they are restored. To delete debts to banks and tax on all affected persons for as long as required. To abolish the trade fee, exempt from the payment of individual insurance contributions and their grant by the State. For the equipment or products destroyed by self-employed self-employed professionals, they must receive one-off compensation. The repayable advances that had been made to be converted into non-repayables. The same for farmers who have suffered damage must be compensated by the ELGA, without conditions and conditions, as must wine and oil producers. Also, this service, ADAF, the services of the municipalities, public health structures with additional permanent staff, must be adequately served so that they can respond to ever-increasing needs. This reality is not overshadowed by successes on the part of the government and by proposals from the part of all other parties for measures that do not serve the affected, but "close the eye" in fact, in construction groups, for the reconstruction of the Arkalochori area which serves capital. And we don't say air words. So let the government leave the tricks with provisions of grain in the sand, because in the case of earthquakes, as for pandemic, fires and flooding, it has shown its unexplained classic face. He's actually doing it elsewhere. And I will close with that, Mr President. In practice and through the reconstruction plans of Arkalochori, as it does respectively in northern Evia, for which they advocate as kings of the king and SYRIZA and the Change Movement and Mer25 and the Greek Solution, it seeks to transform an entire area of high productivity, that is, where the earthquake occurred, into an extension of the new airport of Kastelion, selling to the affected seaweed for silk ribbons for supposedly growth and other airplanes. Today, however, there are all possibilities for protecting the people from murderous viruses, from earthquakes, from floods, from fires, from living better and securely, provided that the country's economy is designed in such a way that the wealth produced returns to its own people and modern technological resources, scientific discoveries and research achievements to protect humans and the environment. Capitalism is barbaric. He's not humanized, because he doesn't want to either. It serves the few at the expense of many. The people, if they want, can cancel it by building their own authority. Only the people can finally save the people. Happy birthday. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u279	I would also like to thank you and me and all the colleagues who are here present. Our best wishes for good holidays and always in health. The list of speakers has been completed either by physical presence or by Webex. And now I want to inform the ladies and gentlemen of the special speakers that most of you have already exhausted the time. I would suggest that you take two minutes from your position in order to express your last remarks. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor. I see you've spoken eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, you are wrong. I've spoken for 15 minutes. I don't know what special speaker you're talking about. Once you give me just two minutes, I will talk about the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance and I think it also contains heterosexual articles, including some of the rich Christmas gifts of "Metsotakis S.A.". In particular, Article 2 provides for the transfer of all shares to PPC S.A., the ownership of the Private Property Response Fund for the Public Property of the GOI to the "Greek Participation and Property Company S.A.", as well as the extension of the increased deduction of 30% of the advertising expenses of enterprises for the tax year 2022, deducting from their gross income in Article 3, while in Article 4 the gifts continue with the introduction of the deletion of the public debts towards "OSE S.A." from the interest and debt obligations of accrued or future. And the party continues with the amendment of the Ministry of the Environment. Article 1 amends the transitional provisions of the Strategic Investment Act and was adopted three weeks ago, which leads to the reasonable conclusion that this is a photographic regulation. It concerns subjection to development law, with specific provisions for the assessment of annual RES and non-interconnected islands, which will no longer be prioritised. Article 10 changes last year's multi-legislative planning and town planning project on the central building service, which is transformed into a self-sufficient service under the Secretary-General, which opens up a field of centralisation and political intervention. In fact, a supervising agency becomes a coordinating office of the Ministry of Energy's investment strategies, while the full lack of seriousness reveals Article 12, where we have a change of organisation chart and a redistribution of expertise, an energy transition service, which was voted on just two weeks ago. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. Happy holidays to everyone, Merry Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u281	Thank you very much. Happy holidays. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. As far as doctors are concerned, it is not possible to bring such an amendment to the vote. Insert impunity to cover your shortcomings and shortcomings, the shortcomings of qualified personnel with your failure to understand the problem in time and your oligopoly to resolve it further. You want to cover the provisions that you have passed and enable qualified, with just six months of experience, to conduct inter-company services intact and severely suffering. You had tabled a similar amendment last April for the members of the committee. Tell us, is that how people can trust you? Set up and impose mandatory vaccinations because you failed to convince citizens and refuse to accept your failure due to your clipboard design for the whole most important public health issue. As a Greek Solution, we are against all obligacies, because they are emergency vaccines and the medical evidence has not yet been collected that shows that they are safe vaccines. It will take at least three years or five years to draw safe conclusions after recording and observation of all side effects. Instead of explaining to us what is happening with the famous Tsiodra - Lytra study, you disorientate the debate and reinvigorate the impunity for a portion of citizens. Then there will be no justice for everyone except for a few and chosen. Accept that your epidemic record has fallen and that it is a huge mistake. The suspension of work that you have imposed on health workers is irresponsible and arbitrary. And today you are enacting an extension of the suspension until 31 March 2022, that is to say, seven months will be completed which these fellow citizens will be without wages and without security. You exterminate themselves and their families. The financial punishment you impose on over sixty years is unacceptable and irresponsible, as effective measures of persuasion have not been taken. In addition, we would like you to tell us why the requirements of the Greek State are being deleted from the OSE in Article 4 of Amendment No 1181. In other words, you have sold to the Italians the OSE and you must now deliver it clean from the debts. We're speechless with your negotiating ability. So well goes to the Greek state and gives it money that belongs to private individuals? This provision is the principle of taking advantage of it by a number of individuals and demanding that their own debts be cancelled. Incredible things! Thank you and wish you a good Christmas, Mr President, and all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, too. We're doing the best. The speaker and Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, speaks on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. I asked for the floor for a second. I'll try to be consistent. I shall refer to the articles and amendments which are mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, and in particular to the amendment with a general number 1182 and a special 178. In Article 3, where the arrangement is made to protect the medical staff to a certain extent from complaints from patients, relatives, etc., we have no objection. We'd be positive. As well, we are also positive in the rules laid down in Article 6. In addition, we also agreed in the respective previous regulations on the discharge of the participation of pensioners in the medical expenses of pensioners who received the CSR. However, since the amendment is adopted as a whole, the other articles on which we are opposed are to be cast into our vote. And, of course, we are going to vote 'v.'. But we stress that for these two articles we would be positive if they were separate. I think the Minister - and this is where he brought us a whole lot of bill - could have these two articles and the rest of this amendment put them into the bill forty-four plus eight other, nine, ten articles, so that we can vote separately. As far as Article 1 of the same amendment is concerned, we say that instead of hiring permanent staff, what are you doing, it seems to me in the article? Please implement the recruitment of ancillary staff, the integration of private individuals and even retired doctors in public health establishments. We say that these are measures which have proved inadequate in substance. They are 'blocks', as we have said, and at the same time they are part of the strategy for the so-called 'new RS', where you are attempting to further reduce the so-called 'working costs' in public units, which are under-financed and of course operate and operate even more strongly in the next period on business criteria. We are also opposed to Article 2. It is unacceptable and challenging to arrange where surgeons in public hospitals will operate in private clinic patients who will be attending them during on-call. This is essentially about a free supply of doctors in the private sector, which will also enjoy the provocative gains from the availability of the clientele of patients, with a sponsorship of the state itself. In addition, we are opposed to Article 4 and Article 5 on issues relating to the Hellenic Dental Federation. We say the composition of the general assembly - we have stressed it in the past at the bottom - when discussing the relevant regulation - arises from the elected dentist associations and, of course, from a measure elected by a representative per fifty votes. Also, our opposition is to the provisions of Article 7. We call for the necessary staff to be recruited and not for shortfalls to be replaced by overtime. As we also disagree with the extension of the mandate of the bodies of the Pan-Hellenic Blind Association. Therefore, because he is boring his vote against this amendment - we will, of course, vote 'on the whole of the amendment, I repeat - if it were separated, Article 3 and Article 6 would vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u285	And we thank Mr. Lambroulis. We continue with the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poula.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I shall not go into second place. I'd just like to say my best wishes. Happy birthday to everyone. I hope that in 2022 he returns the smile to all Greeks. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, too, and we'll do our best. On behalf of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, my fellow Member, Mr Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u288	We too, Mr President, have finished. Have a good year, with and with care.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u289	Thank you. We're looking forward to the best. We shall conclude the speeches by the rapporteurs and special speakers with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Brysinos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. And I've completed my place. I think that each individual issue has been discussed in detail, in particular health issues, which are dealt with by the articles of the Ministry of Health. The rest, which were various regulations, offers, support and organization of the various social groups, I think they have also been analysed by all of us. I would like to wish everyone good feasts, with the good news of the new time coming, of health and of being right and organized, to offer our fellow people as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, too. We're looking forward to the best. Minister, I think you'll only get the microphone for your wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u292	Merry Christmas to have a good New Year's Eve, Mr President, to all colleagues and to all people. And truly, we hope that 2022 will be the end of the pandemic that has troubled the planet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Agreements to deal with the CIVID-19 pandemic and the protection of public health and other urgent provisions' is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u294	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u295	Following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Agreements to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic and the protection of public health and other emergency provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and on the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u296	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u297	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-22-S1-commons.u298	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 21.46 p.m. Merry Christmas! Always in health!
