ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 29-6-2021 authorisation, PNG's minutes at its meeting of Tuesday, 29 June 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Definition of the amendment from 24.3.2021 to the specific donation contract for Project I [Annex 5 to the Act]. 4564/2018] and its amendment of 13.5.2021 from 6.9.2018 to the donation contract between Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation and the Hellenic State to strengthen and upgrade the health infrastructure and its annexes, arrangements to deal with the COVID pandemic -19 and other provisions.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House of the following: "We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Wednesday, 30 June 2021, that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 6558/14-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Maria Michailidou. Question No 900/28-6-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Digital Governance, George Georgios Georgios. Question No 892/25-6-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, George Stylion. We therefore move on to the debate on the first under No 6558/14-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP B3' South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "With deliberate blockages in this year's vouchers for day-care stations, creativity centres and Creative Employment Centres for Disabled Children (CIDA), the government this year condemns hundreds of thousands of parents to uncertainty and dozens of private and public bodies in failure to participate in the programme." Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u3	Madam Secretary, a month and a half ago, on 14 May, forty-nine Members, we asked you a question that you refused to answer, of course, as a matter of fact, why don't you take off the CSA required to start the story of parents' applications for nursery schools. That's a big deal. He can't come out at the last minute. Why did we ask this question in time? Because we were afraid of repeating last year. What did you do last year? We thought it was a parentheses because of your indulgence. Last year, instead of getting all the families to go - hundreds of thousands of families are about what I'm saying - to make their applications at the nursery stations, you took them out too late on 8 July, so the process ends on 20 August and the parents' answers are final on 15 September. I mean, you blew up family budgets and family planning in the air, because until then the families didn't know if they'd take their kids or not get them, etc. We think you are repeating the same thing this year. You're not taking out the NSA. You're not taking it off because we've figured out that this is a plan. What do you want, Madam Secretary, to do? You always want to take this story out in August so that families don't get a bit of what will happen to them and public opinion. So you're doing the same thing you did last year. There, drive again, to the same. What did we do? For five years we have taken off the HR in early May. The end of June was over. It was when your friendly media accused SYRIZA of leaving the kids out. You left sixty-five thousand children outside the CFP last year and didn't open a nose, because it happened in August and your media didn't talk. Sixty-five thousand children left! You'll do the same this year and worse and I'm provoking it and you'll see that I'll be confirmed. What did we do? Five years we put more money each year and finished the story in July. It's typical that we got seventy thousand voucher in 2015 from your government. You were in 2014 for doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u4	Mrs. Fotio, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a very important matter. Seventy-nine, then, thousands of voucher received in 2015, we reached it in the hundred and fifty-five thousand, we made it to 280 million euros and what happened to 2019? It became the following ridiculousness. They come out of the results of July 10, as soon as you have been elected government, and Mr. Mitsotakis congratulates Mr. Theodorikos for putting all children in nursery schools. You're making these numbers. So this year, according to your dear method, you realized that this is the trick. We'll take it out in August and don't get bored, we won't put a single euro on. So last year, Mr President, I am finishing because the question has two parts which I present to the Minister, and they have started to have more children than we have put in. We put a hundred and fifty - five thousand children in the CPDs and infants. So last year, then, there was a great deal of horror that there would be fifteen thousand public sector children coming in and there would be a great increase. What was the result? The result was that the way they did took a hundred and sixty thousand children together and left sixty - five thousand out. This is what they do, Mr President, because they do not want to increase the budgets. We saw it in the medium term. My question has two legs. Will you do last year, Madam Secretary? Will you take the invitation slowly and will the procedure end in August, on the substance of 15 September? No one will know what his kid will do, where he'll take it in the summer. And secondly, because all this story was created in CSR last year, what do you intend to do this year precisely to do with major problems with CSRs and you have opened a long story to come back for them? So I want to know exactly what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. Of course we've had a lot of time. It's okay. It's a serious matter. The Minister will have the corresponding time. Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Fotiou, I am really sorry to see that the Census has chosen to discover purposes and dragons everywhere and, in particular, on the part of child protection, which is that I would expect if not more sensitive - because we both know that this term does not particularly like - the Civic Opposition to be more responsible. You're asking me what we're gonna do. I think that every step of our actions is well known, fully transparent and quite clear. You specifically ask us in your question: 'With intentional blockages this year's voucher, the government condemns hundreds of parents to uncertainty'. Mrs Fotiou, however, why has the same government, the same Ministry and the same State Secretary, who have given up child protection as the highest priority of this Ministry and, in particular, of social affairs within that Ministry, who have practically raised this priority as our first flag, because we, in practice, have done so much work on the part of infants, which, for the first time, are drawing up a single programme for the qualification of services at nurseries, which, for the first time, we have already drawn up a single programme of services in creative employment centres and even more, which we have already increased the budget with a parallel programme from the previous programme, why should we really have intentions for scapegoats? So I start with why it's our proactive priority. I hope you followed it to the previous Ministerial Council last week. Our new bill has been adopted. What does that mean other than? A lot of provisions on child protection. One part of this is for the "BACK" programme. What's the "BRUCH" programme doing? It invests on the child itself, setting quality standards for the services provided to all kinds of nurseries. So, what do we say? Did we give an answer to our promise that we will increase the budget to the nursing stations? Yeah, we did. Last year we ran - you know - a programme of 30m euros for fifteen thousand more places in kindergartens, in which we received coupons and women, mothers who work in the public sector. Because so many years of low income mothers, often a certain period of time with a monthly income of 600 euros, which they may have been working in kindergartens, did not have the right to receive a coupon from the State even if their income - if they were working in the private sector - would justify this coupon. So last year, quantitatively, in our promise, we were right. We increased the budget by 30 million, fifteen thousand new beneficiaries, most of them mothers who already had the income criteria and worked in the public sector, but also by increasing, with the elasticisation of income criteria. But - and I'm coming back to this - we weren't there. For the first time, we set quality standards for nursery schools. And that's why? Because when we talk about social protection, when we talk about childcare and child protection, then we cannot have kindergartens in a state that only defines animal welfare, which the other one defines is staffing. Oh, no. The state must be here and ensure that the lane of inequality does not grow. The state must be here and ensure equal opportunities for all children whether they come from a vulnerable economic environment or are at a nursery station which is not one of the best so far in the country. And whether he is municipal, whether he is public or private, the state must take care to provide a very high level of standards and services within these stations. So, yes, we are the same government that has drawn up uniform standards for creative employment centres primarily and secondaryly, the same government that has managed and increased, with the parallel programme, the budget for nursery care by 30 million, putting in, as I have said, women's civil servants financially vulnerable, but increasing horizontally and income-based criteria for the integration of the programme. Most importantly, however, we are the government that does not see nurseries as a relief for parents where their children will leave their children in the morning when they work and especially mothers. Yeah, well, kindergartens are that, but that's not all. Above all for us it is an investment in the child itself, an investment in the removal of inequalities in our country and an investment in the future itself because we will build human resources and a society that will have taken the skills that the state must give it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u8	Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u9	Madam Secretary, I asked you a specific question, when will you get the FSA to get the parents to apply for whether or not they will have their child and whether you will pay it or not, whether or not they will take voucher. You gave me the ball of what the Ministerial Council said, you didn't throw me the ball at what you put in the medium term. Because in the medium term, Minister, the welfare costs remain unchanged with those you received in 2019. It's shocking. You predict huge growth, but in welfare money will be the same by 2025. That's amazing! It is what we have said, that in this area - and, indeed, welfare is for children, of course, it is for nurses, of course, for disabled children - you leave this invariably. You will also hear tomorrow in the medium-term programme what you are doing precisely for the welfare that you are leading. So you didn't answer all of this. You have responded to the following inaccuracies: you have, you have said, more than 30 million. Madam Minister, you have not absorbed it. You did not put 15 000 children, as you thought, from the public sector, for the simple reason that, at the last minute, women did not have time to apply and you only had ten thousand children. The total is a hundred sixty thousand children. What did I tell you we delivered you? One hundred and fifty-five thousand children. That's your difference, five thousand. And for the first time - for the first time in time! - Ever since SYRIZA was here, you've left sixty-five thousand children outside of S.H.I.E.L.D. Why did you leave them outside the CSR, and why am I foretell you that, unfortunately, you will leave them again this year? Don't happen, and it's over this year, because you don't even get the CPD out of there. And you're only telling me that you have created a new legislative framework. You did not create a new legislative framework. As everything was working with SYRIZA, you allegedly made it a new law. What happened to this terrible law? You said you'd extradite to specialize in the law. But you didn't publish it. Why? Because within the law there was a CIA, that is, the law said we'd do these things, that is, they won't be CADs in school facilities unless the CIA defines otherwise, that is, unless it's disqualified and goes with the former regime. Very simple, then, what happened now to see the craving? Because CSRs are currently housed on either their own structures or within their schools - 30% in their own structures, 70% in schools - does not get the CSR out because it will have to say that we will go with SYRIZA's old system. That's what she's gonna say. And all the big talk about programs for the child and one and the other and arrangements are green horses. I mean, it's a hell of a communal thing just without anything to do with it. So, what's going on now? In about five, the municipalities do not know what the conditions will be for 70% of their structures. 70%! I will file a complaint letter from the workers in the CDIs, the municipal stations, i.e. the municipalities in the country, where all of you are accused - and they are denounced for this - that they are squandering public money. I mean, you messed up with the municipal stations and you don't run them through. Be there and know when they're going to be in line with the so-called new operating framework you're going to make? When? Between July and September will they do it or will we have any damage there? It is obvious, Minister, that all your policy is purely communication. The child, the child, etc. The kid, however, left it with the same money. Do you know what a nursery will say? It's a sovereign anti-demographic policy. Big chats for the demographics. Did you find anything more? Are you ready to double the structures so that the kids can all go to nurseries for free? Of course not. Your problem is not there, Minister, unfortunately. And at the moment we are in only five to create huge problems within the municipal CDIs. Because that's what this is about. Last year, there were sixty-five thousand outsiders. You'll leave it again this year. Will this be your personal vaterlo or not? Tell me if you'll leave out again this year the sixty-five thousand children, how are you gonna judge it exactly? In November 2020, Minister, the law was passed. Those months, couldn't you take her out? What's the matter? It's a matter of incapacity or it's intentional, because in the end you know you're not going to put any more money? Answer me with an honesty. Sensitivity we all have and you know that that's not where politics is being judged. Politics is judged by numbers, by actions, by what we have done, by doubling the vouches from where we took them on commemorative terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u10	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Fotou, as you usually find it difficult and you know that you're having trouble with me. You find it difficult for me, because there is no hint on these questions, so I am trying a little - a little bit - to record them so that at least I can answer the Greek Parliament with some kind of logic. So trying - and I cannot promise to succeed - to be consistent with this effort, I am starting. The first question concerns the Agency for Harmonisation. Tomorrow or tomorrow, this ministerial decision will have come out. The second question concerns the CFD for creative employment centres. You know that this decision has already been made. I am pressing on the question and on what you said that nothing quantitatively has changed in the New Democracy Government, because you have read in the medium term and I do not know whether it is the only thing you are reading, but the same as in the other budget documents you can see very clearly, that is, nothing has changed. I am telling you again from the Step that the country's social affairs budget for '21 has increased by 22%. I would like to be clear here, because I would like to give you a number of quantitative information, which all of which you can not only check, you should normally already know. But since repetition is a mother of learning, I will tell you again. Welfare budget for '21: 22% above, 750 million more approved by this government. In particular, an increase of 20% for family allowances, the so-called 'A21', 34% for housing allowances and 15% for minimum guaranteed income. In particular, I should like to tell you another clue. In the case of the United Kingdom, there is no doubt that there is a need for the Commission to take the necessary measures to ensure that the Community's policies are respected. And you're telling me and I've been recording that one of these when you first said nothing was used then you said it's less than sixty-five thousand after a third element you've given for these two plus fifteen is that from zero to sixty-five eventually it's plus five. No, Mrs. Fotio. It's nothing but sixty-five, plus five. It's plus 12 thousand. Of the fifteen thousand vouchers, which we budgetd, the 12 thousand were used. And what about it? There was no child at the nursery stations and family that met the new higher income criteria increased with the families of civil servants who applied and did not get a coupon. As there was no family applying for a job centre for disabled people and not getting a coupon, because that was where we increased their coupons and their distribution by 1/4 last year. I still heard you say that kindergartens are the vehicle for the demographics. I told you before. No, nursery stations are the vehicle for the child itself. They're helping out in the country's demographics, too? Of course, they also help in the country's demographics. What did we do there? Do you remember that we are already giving an allowance of EUR 2 000 for every birth in our country, of 200 million, which is budgeted annually in our annual budget, so that we can help as much as we can and do as we can? Finally, strengthening child protection and strengthening social affairs is not only a matter of quantitative importance. I gave you all the quantitative information. I have given you 22% of our budget increase in all social affairs, the fifteen thousand additional coupons that remain in the parallel programme and next year. I gave you these coupons we give and we ensure there is no child who wants to go to CDCs and doesn't get a coupon because that's where we can disagree. The fact that our government with you - with the SYRIZA, with the ANELs, I don't know who - has different priorities is something we can disagree with and the people will judge, the Greeks will judge. Priority is given to nursery stations via an oral Prime Minister, and for us, the needs of our people with disabilities are met, which is why we are taking out the staff assistant for the first time. Yes, there is the money we are making, because we are making use of it in social policy, in order to do so properly, we are making use of what we have at national, European, whatever we have in our hands, and we are making new services, we are taking out services for nursery schools, we are taking out the staff assistant. That's what you said you didn't see in the medium term. You did not see them in the medium term because they are in the Recovery Fund, that is where these costs have been approved. And know that no social expenditure has been cut in our proposals for the Recovery Fund, no one. And that's why in the early part of the intervention, which is the first time the state enters the state with early intervention at all kinds of nursery stations, so that early diagnosis of the ages of children under the age of four can be available at the time of the age of the child, where neuroplasty in the minds of the child is at its highest. There it will enter and so we will help hundreds of thousands of children and their families, so that they have the help at the time they need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. We continue with the first with number 892/25-6-2021 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "It is important that the ELTA Magnesia should be dealt with and that the mail distribution problems should be dealt with". Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, all the employees in the ELTA Magnesia were sixty three people. Of these workers, the twenty-six joined an exit voluntary programme, which was completed on 22 February. On the basis of this programme, the officials left at the ELTA Magnesia are thirty-seven in number, who are even called upon to serve a population of over two hundred thousand inhabitants and in an area which has both mountainous and remote, but also island regions. There are already huge protests by citizens of Volos about the delay in the distribution of mail up to the city complex. For example, on 25 February, they were handed over to the centre of Volos electricity accounts, which had expired on 12-2-21, but also to natural gas accounts which expired on the same day. Indeed, according to evidence from the President of ELTA Magnesia Association’s own worker by applying the voluntary exit, the town complex of Volos is now called upon to serve only eight distributors, thus forming suffocating pressure on workers to cover the volume of mail, while the new situation presupposes even greater delays. You have answered my question on 10 March that the ELTAs are carrying out a transformation programme without mentioning in this question what this transformation involves and whether, in the end, the ELTAs in Magnesia will be further strengthened by staff. As a government we had tried in the last four years to take rescue measures and through these measures to maintain its public character, and initiatives were taken to recover all outstanding debts to the ELTAs since 2012 by multiple public bodies. At the same time we paid the universal service, which has been pending since 2013. The result of these efforts was until mid-19 the ELTAs had an input into their funds of around EUR 90 million. On the basis of the information I have given you, Mr Minister, the question that arises is one and simple: Is there an initiative, there is a political intention that the ELTAs will be deployed with staff in Magnesia and not just in Greece, because, as far as I know, many counties are facing exactly the same problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Style, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague, listening to your question, I understand that he has two parts, two chapters. One concerns the operational part, the operational function of ELTAs, and specifically in the Magnesia region, Volos. The second, which was at the end of your position before the question, has to do with the support of SYRIZA governance in the previous period. And you also raise the question of answering the question. So I say: By a law passed in 2016 - and I speak very specifically about Law4389 and Article 197 and you remember in 2016 who had the rule of the country - from 1-1-2018 ELTA operations belong to the Greek Company of Public Property Participants. It is the well-known company that handed over the entire GOC and the property of our country, the well-known and oldest TIADE. So the operational department belongs to the U.S.S.S.S. What do we have as a competence? We have as the responsibility of providing the universal service, as this results from the legal and regulatory framework that exists in Greece and the European Union, and for this regulatory framework, for the universal service, we are financing the ELTAs and they are obliged to provide the letter, the letter throughout the entire Greek territory with quality, low cost, and cover all Greek citizens. Who controls compliance with this agreement? It is controlled by the National Telecommunications and Post Committee. So other business, other than universal service, and for that it is our responsibility. Let's go in particular now. The issue you raise in Magnesia, I have also been put to me by other Members, Mr Bukokoros, Mrs Makre, Mr Maraveyas. All the Members of Magnesia have raised this matter and I hear it in other prefectures in the country. But, as I answered the question, the ELTAs were a company that had losses, losses resulting from the management of your own governance. The 90 million you mentioned are advances from the universal service for the period 2013-2017. So, in order to cover these losses, so that we do not spend with Greek taxpayers' money - which we cannot afford to be spent and given - the company is trying to cover through transformation, a transformation in which we will manage with respect the Greek taxpayers' money and a company that we delivered in 2014 with a surplus of more than 15 million, we received it with a deficit of more than 30 million in 2019. The rest of you will answer my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I am very pleased that the Members of the Magnesia Co-Population - and I know that - have raised this issue on several occasions and I imagine the answers that have been given to them were different colours and fragrances from those which you have answered me. Why don't you tell me that the universal service you owed it since 2013 and had never been paid, was not a major political issue that aggravated the already ugly economic situation of the ELTAs. But at any rate, I am going to talk to you today in order to explain to you the real dimension of a situation which has been escalating in a particularly bad way over the last five months. I think there are too many incidents of citizens receiving electricity bills, gas, telephones that have already expired for days. This is a reality that citizens experience. I will give you a very characteristic example from the previous days at the ELTA branch in Skopelos, the island of Sporades, which has been left for a whole week without a fund employee. In the Eltas of the island, only two employees are employed, one in the fund and one distributor for the entire island, the island of Skopelos, which in the summer is also filled with people. I ask you a very simple thing: What should be done when of the only two employees one - say - will get permission? Will the employee be sitting in the fund himself, and will the staff member do the distribution at the same time? Obviously not. But what is the result of this situation? Residents go for their mail service to courier companies that are more accurate and have fewer services. Also, there is another case of a citizen of Volos - again in the last days - who up until last week expected the correspondence from Volos’ ELTA for some seventy days! Seventy days, Minister! So I quote these examples in order to understand how much the daily lives of the people of Volos are affected by this constant subsistence situation experienced by the ELTAs in Magnesia. The correspondence that the world expects in Magnesia in most cases relates to documents with time limits for replying from the recipient, concerns documents, medicines, results of medical examinations of cancer patients, recruitment announcements, bank transactions cards, invoiced accounts. So you realise - and we do not come here to trade - what impact this delay of documents has on everyday life, on the pocket and even on the health of the citizens of Volos. I would also like to say on this point, Minister, that I want you to keep in mind the particular geomorphology that Magnesia has. It has mountainly difficult areas, it has an island area, which makes the conditions for the distribution of mail even more demanding. And, of course, it is in no way the fewer distributors left and they have become really elastic in trying to carry out the same volume of work with much less staff. With my own eyes, Minister, I have noted this situation. When I went to visit the ELTA site, I saw huge volumes of letters and letters stacked for distribution. The representatives of my employees' association themselves have transferred that, despite their efforts, the delays in distribution to Magnesia are up to two months away. They even told me that they really work like machines and they don't make the distribution of mail in a timely manner and that they need at least five more distributors. This is the dominant question to tell us, Minister, what you will do. Indeed at a recent meeting - and here I would like to mention an incident in order to comment on it to me - the Secretary-General of the Ministry at a meeting with a local member of the Co-Place has informed us that the next time we expect to see the process of normalising the situation in relation to the delays found in deliveries. Where is this normalization, while the incidents I'm telling you have a period of seven days ago? And the worst, Minister, do you know what it is? That, in all this, I have described to you, with the ELTAs pan-Hellenic fundamentally downgrade and there is a permanent sub-delegation situation, which has been closed down by the administration, which has been sacked by contractors, caused by intense and justified anxiety and by workers and also by the citizens, there is a newspaper post - I do not know if you know that - which denounces that in the midst of a pandemic around EUR 200,000 for legal services to a Member of the Chamber, who is even elected in Grevena. Do you know this decision? So while Members of Parliament have been begging for months now that the New Democracy's locals have literally been calling for an official, a distributor in Magnesia, the ELTAs who have been in such a marginal situation at the same time as giving thousands of euros for a lawyer's legal services, who is at the same time a member of the Co-population. So let us stop this smuggling here with regard to the people of Magnesia and also with Greece. It's not a question of SYRIZA confronting the New Democracy. It is a question of the Ministry answering exactly how it will do so in order to resolve this adverse situation even marginally for the people of Magnesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr Colleague, in relation to the Minister's reply, I make a statement which does not matter, but I remind you - and I would refer you to the Minutes of the House on previous governance, the previous term of office of the SYRIZA Government, your government - which is the answer given by the relevant Minister at the time, as you say. I would remind you that your Minister was answering that he is not in charge. I would refer you to the Minutes of the House, as you are asking for answers from the ELTAs. Because we want to respond to the Greek people and to provide solutions to the problems, I tell you that we have a company that we want and must also owe it to the Greek people to provide its services to all Greek citizens and to the entire Greek territory to an end either in the islands or in mountainous areas. This is also our commitment from the European Union and from the universal service. Secondly, we have a company that was damaged near 6 million a month. In total, we received it in 2019 with 300 million cigarettes, getting in when its turnover was 400 million. So we had damages over 100 million a year. You understand that. It's a multiplication. We want this company to go back to plus. It can't be at the minus, because when it comes back to the plus, it'll be better for both the company's employees and the world. To do this is not done on-off, from one day to the next. It needs a transformation. That is what the company says, so the administration says and says that this transformation has the rationalisation of wage costs, which were mostly 70% of the costs, so we had a successful voluntary exit where over a thousand nine hundred and fifty employees pressed the button and went to this voluntary exit. We have a new collective agreement, a modern collective agreement signed by the ELTA workers themselves with the administration where they agreed to reduce their wages so that this rationalisation could be carried out. We have changes in the way the service works. I am opening a parentheses and remind you that on the rule of SYRIZA, seventy shops were closed on Greek territory and I have information to give. But what else does it have to do? A digital transformation of the company must change the sorting centres, use technology more, exploit investment, invade new capital within the company to have a company that is better for the workers, but certainly it will also be for the Greek citizens. You know, too, that this transformation is constantly changing the agencies, the ELTA stores, the workers, the distribution routes. Why are changes? Not changes to change, but to be able to serve the Greek citizen first of all. Secondly, we have a company that can compete on the Greek market, because the services in question are also aware that they are liberated, but the volume of the letter and the distribution of the letter has also been reduced. So we have to find new items, get inside this company. In any case, the Ministry is there and oversees, monitors and judges all and where necessary the measures given by the law to the Ministry will also be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u20	The second question will be discussed with number 900/28-6-2021 in the first cycle of SYRIZA's Athens - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Christophoros Vernardakis to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "State - viewer of the leakage and exploitation of personal data of its citizens and the imposition of manipulation - censorship by means of social networking". Mr. Georgiotis will answer from the Ministry of Digital Governance. Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I wish I could have a question in the title of the question, and that will depend on the reply of the Secretary-General. Is that a State of view or a State of coordinator or State of shareholders? That is a big question that needs to be raised today by the answer procedure. Let's take a look at the frame. We have repeatedly leaks of personal data on social media, particularly on the most popular and massive social media, 'Facebook'. Two-three months ago, we had a very large leak of millions of personal data, including five hundred thousand Greeks. That is the issue. The second issue is the well-known exploitation of personal data, namely the use, analysis, resale, entry into a big data, a process which has raised many of the issues of intervention by governments and parliaments in America, Europe, many countries and has raised a question of democratic rights, transparency, use of what is happening in this matter. I would like to say here that a few weeks ago I sent a letter to the President of Parliament asking him to take an initiative - intergroup obviously - to set up an ad hoc committee, which will call on 'Facebook' and all the related companies, such as the American Congress, as other parliaments have done, to finally see what guarantees companies give not badly, but good faith, to major issues in managing this data. In this respect, therefore, the field and while there has so far been a silence of fish from the government - because now obviously we are dealing with what the government will do here - on these issues has been added to recent occasions and a parallel abuse of censorship phenomena in surname journalists, photojournalists, businesses which are of course involved in economic competition issues, and lately in the last few days, and censorship with a Member of the Greek Parliament, i.e. censorship with the method of repression, the removal of an account. This is a major issue, because so far and from what we know a Member of the Greek Parliament has never fainted in the expression of a public speech, a public opinion - take note of the opinion - or not of an act, which can, of course, be condemned or judged, but in the expression of opinion never before. From a private body, from a private company? So we have a right, if you like, within a private company that outweighs the constitutional and institutional guarantees of the Hellenic Republic? Is there not a question of regulation, intervention in this area and, indeed, cross-party? So I would like to ask what the government intends to do. To call on the company and its related companies and first and foremost to see in what framework of transparency all these multiple filters that have no person, who have no legal form, but who manage financial data, have invoices, pay ads, pay for personal data and are truly worthy of what the government's policy towards it is, for which it also has a whole digital transformation project. In this sense, without underestimating the presence of the State Secretary, I would expect the Minister of Digital Governance of the responsible for drawing up this plan to be here today, but, in any case, I would expect to listen with interest to the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Georgioda, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you raise two different issues, major issues, which concern not only our country, but I think it is an object in which there is an interesting and European but also international one and I think we need to put a framework in the debate so that we know what the potential of the Greek state is and what the direction to which we need to move is. The first is the issue of personal data leakage, which was recognised by the company you are referring to, Facebook, and which relates to a period based on 2018, before the date of 25 May 2018 that we have the application of the general regulation throughout the European Union. Users around the world, whose data they leaked, are alleged to be 533 million. Of course, in order to understand the world, we are talking about names, birth dates and addresses. Six hundred thousand are in our country. There, therefore, on this issue, everything provided for by the independently regulated constitutional authorities has gone ahead, in our country is the Personal Data Protection Authority, in cooperation with all the relevant authorities of the other European countries. The Irish supervisory authority as a supervisory authority in this case is the one that has taken the initiative to call and ask for explanations from the company, because regardless of whether it is prior to the application of the regulation, there was a framework again, a directive which gives the possibility of imposing administrative sanctions. I think that in this regard we will also have a result of coordinating these independent authorities to see how the leakage took place and the sanctions provided for. This is an issue on which the armouring of the framework has been done, precisely because this procedure and comparative control must not be left to any government alone, but you understand that an independent constitutional authority guaranteed can play a very important role in this, and that is what is being done in our country. On the question of the content of the posts in the social media, in which we notice, we hear and know that many times these companies, which have rules of use and which are compulsory for users from the moment they participate, require deductions of posts, blocking of accounts. I think that the whole world has been watching what happened with the former President of America, where we had a similar subject, and perhaps the cause of a debate that exists. And I will agree with you from now on: a coherent regulatory framework needs to be established in order to know what the rules on the operation of these platforms are, what the conditions are, what the frameworks are, so that we do not have any interventions that really affect the right of free opinion, of course, within the framework already being established by a company, which defines rules of use. But there must also be control over this in such a way that we can see when it is excessive - if there is - abuse of these internal rules or not. This is a conversation that started European. It is a debate that needs a European consensus and initiative and not just perhaps. In this debate, yes, a framework needs to be established and this needs to be shaped. I think it is very good to hear all opinions and opinions. I do not think it is a matter - you will allow me to say - parliamentary control. It is a question of agreement between the political forces - you rightly said it - to be present in this debate. I think we are present, we need to be present, in a debate in which we need to understand that it goes beyond the limits and the framework within which the country can move on by itself. We must move to a European level.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u25	Mr Minister, first of all thank you for the answer. I understand now that, in any case, you are facing a policy search. That is why you will allow me to say a few things that may push you into a larger - if you want - energy in this matter. First of all, we are talking about social networks, not private networks. So, just like private channels in another context, private TV channels or private media, of course have their own rules of operation and they must have, but they must have certain rules of public management, management of news, management of objectivity, protection of childhood, and so on, that is to say, issues that are above - if you like - a way of operating a private company, and also opaque or opaque. That's the one thing. I think we'll agree on this. Here, therefore, there is a need for greater political, active, government participation in this matter. The second question is to reach agreement on something: censorship phenomena must be clearly opposed. I, for example, am not in favour of censorship, even to President Trump when he was practiced, but it is a little hypocritical. Have I heard this argument before, that here - he says - they censored Trump, they won't censor Paul? Yes, look, they censored Trump, but he had previously set up a whole machine through "Facebook" and "Cambridge Analytica" in the management of personal data and was rumored - with evidence, not just rumours - that he somehow won the presidential elections in 2016. So it seems to me to be a little pretext for this Trump debate or not. The third issue that exists: we have the phenomena of censorship of surnamed journalists. I shall mention the name Helena Akrita, but I will not insist on it, because we have many other less names than Helena Akrita. ESA, the competent institution of journalists, saw that here there is an institutional void, an institutional problem. He asked for a meeting with the company's leaders to see who is really and with which criterion he downloads photos from "REUTERS", downloads lyrics from Yiannis Ritchos, downloads photos of events or demonstrations, photojournalists who are certified members of the ESAS. And the answer was that there is no representative and disgraceful to discuss with the competent institution of the CSCE. Therefore, when there are such great institutional issues here, I think that the government's initiative must be much more active, and I would say it in good faith, Mr Minister, I do not want to believe that there is an invisible coordinating hand, which, by miracle, only censored opinions or photographs or lyrics of criticism or criticism to the current government. I don't want to believe this thing is happening. I want to believe that these company structures have just been self-determination. And with a final phrase to close and I think we will reach agreement, we have no co-responsibility. We still have democracy. An active intervention is therefore required in the institutional framework of the functioning of this public space.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u27	I think, Mr President, it is understandable that regulating this field is a complex debate, because there are many issues and legal and, of course, matters of censorship and operational issues and, of course, a question of rules of use. So it is a great debate that has really begun, because it is necessary - we agree on something - to have a regulation in which to see how to create the framework and the states to be heard. We agree on that. Of course it is not an excuse for something to be done with the former President of America. This is simply an example to show that ultimately the way and conditions of use of these companies are not correct. They put on some rules with which the answer and the counter-project in all the debate we are having is that whoever participates accepts them. We want to avoid accepting this counter-project and trying to have a way of regulating the framework as far as possible. I think, therefore, that we have to agree that with the strength that all these instruments have gained, we must certainly have the regulatory framework, which is a European debate. Greece must take part in this debate. It is an issue that has already been initiated by society, so it will have to come to an institutional level too. Of course - and I have to close with it a little, because I think this is a debate that will take a long time and at a very different level all of us - because we are talking about censorship issues or about the intimidation of journalists, who no one wants to do so, I think that today we could all condemn the action - which was taken this morning at the expense of a journalist, outside his home, where there were some gazettes from some who, obviously, have attempted to create a problem in his journalistic function and in the way he is doing so. This has to do with all the same, which must not be accepted by any of us, by any of the political parties. Journalists must be able to exercise their duties freely, without any fear, without any anxiety. This is a fundamental element of our democracy. It is also an obligation for all of us, indeed, in the context in which it is shaped and which must not escape in relation to this unregulated context - the right expression is 'the regulated framework' - which works, but which affects too many people, to lay down rules which are objective and for everyone themselves and to be able to monitor any interventions. I think we agree on that. On the first point, however, Mr Colleagues, to close it and to know what has happened - from the research carried out, it will be noted that this data has been leaked, from a mistake, perhaps, or from what malicious energy has been done. However, in any case, there is the regulatory framework, there are the independent authorities which will also impose the sanctions provided for. The process has already begun. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you both. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-30-S1-commons.u29	With the consent of the House at 10.16 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 1 July 2021, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
