ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 11-10-2021 authorisation, its Minutes of 11 October 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law, were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Monday, 11 October 2021, with regard to the whole of the draft law: ‘Rapid political trial, the adaptation of the provisions of the political procedure for the digitisation of justice policy, other amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other urgent provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with immunity, I would like to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Affairs presents reports on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Partnership Agreement for relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part’ B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part’ C. Other: ex II. ‘Preparation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part’ D. OBJECTIVES ‘Preparation of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: a discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament of Paul Paul Paul Pavlakis and Dionysiou - Charalambos Kalamatianos. The first case - as they are imported - concerns Mr Polakis and is introduced here following a public prosecutor's proposal. The file came from the prosecutor through the Minister of Justice and concerns a lawsuit made by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, against Mr. Polakis, for his post on Facebook. The post had expressions which, in the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Proposal, constitute the offences of slandering and exalting. It was a Facebook post, as I told you, followed by the lawsuit Mr Stournaras made. Mr Paulakis did not come to our committee, and by a majority the committee recommended the waiver of immunity. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. It must also be borne in mind that your vote relates to the application by the Advocate-General. In other words, those who wish to vote in favour of or against the lifting of immunity. Anyone who wishes to vote 'the present'. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we shall proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because I know that the well-known objective sites and the valid leaflets will have the title for today's meeting that Paulakis again refuses to waive his immunity from the beginning, and I am clarifying and clarifying that neither Stournara nor his complaints have I feared and I have proved it. How legally and effectively unfounded and avengeable the complaint we are discussing today will prove this following my speech and, of course, before the natural judge, even if you decide to waive immunity. I will also prove the misguided methods that devise and move a corrupt and intertwined system to cover up its scandals and to avenge those who insist on showing them and demand the control and punishment of their protagonists. Yes, he does, of course. First of all, however, I will demonstrate that, although Mr Stournaras supports the independence of the Governor of the Bank of Greece and constantly claims that there is no intervention in his duties, he himself, in addition to the political interventions he has made in the governance of SYRIZA in favour of the positions of lenders and the interests of the country, now seems to be interfering with the parliamentary duties of the MPs, trying to censor, frustrate or avenge those who criticise him for his actions and omissions, while safeguarding for himself the role of Louis "I am the state". Ladies and gentlemen, as much as you do not understand it or want to understand it, because they are not leaving you at the moment, today's risk goes beyond me personally, as well as at the present time and political context. I've made it quite clear from the beginning. By doing the gift to Stournara to lift my immunity, fearing not that it will make the ministers publicly apologize to him if the lifting is not voted for, as another pillar of our democratic culture did a long time ago, Kurtakoyanni from Kastelli, but that he can ask for the unpaid loans from some ministers and especially from your party - you must know that you are opening up the criminalisation of parliamentary control and spreading into a dangerous shame, since you are creating a completely unconstitutional and anti-parliamentary precedent for the freedom of speech of the MP, which may also be used against you from a different majority in the future. And I'm explaining so I don't get wrong. As you all know, Article 62 of the Constitution, even after its review in 2019 and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which SYRIZA did not make, explicitly stipulate that the immunity of a Member is not lifted if the act for which the complaint was lodged is linked to his political or parliamentary activity. What happened in this case? On October 18, 2020, Kostas Vaxevani's paper "DOCUMENTO" revealed with figures that were never disproved by anyone - we had the last act of the drama, for it is a drama that he revealed at the time - this post: "We were slapped and slapped in the gallery of the battered shipowners." The information he gave this post, I'll tell them in detail later on, I'm saying it now fast. Piraeus Bank gave more than 0.5 billion euros - it is not 0.5 billion, it is 1.2 billion, I will prove it later - to four five big shipowners for loans that had been taken with "air" safeguards on the command of Michael Sala. Secondly, the current administration of the great CEO Christos Great, not only did absolutely nothing to ask for this money, but by pressing... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, stop the bell because I will speak for a long time. The current administration of Christos Great not only did nothing to ask for this money, but by pressing on to an undercover law, the Law of 2019 of the Government of Mitsotakis that you voted for, he made sure that these shipowners and the top managers and managers of Piraeus Bank from the criminal prosecution that had been brought against them for the crimes of fidelity and dirty money laundering. You see, in Greece, by Mr. Mitsotakis, if you are a rich shipowner and you don't pay your loan, the banks give it to you and relieve you of criminal persecution. But if you depend on your salary or pension and you don't even pay a single dose, then you get auctioned everything you have and you don't have, even the first place you live with your family. I'll be back in detail later on. On the same day that this post came out, SYRIZA made a announcement denounced this approach of half a billion and over loans to shipowners. He was making a harsh criticism of the government for this gift, what he did to the 'patients' shipowners. On the same day, I posted a social network, on Facebook, on my personal page, the following text: "Architripezitis Giannis Stournaras, in February 2019, you had held an extraordinary meeting on my own legal loan of EUR 100,000, which is normally repaid. Now that it has been revealed by the 'DOCUMENTO' that the five times recapitalised with our Piraeus Bank of Sala and the Grand Practically deleted 900 million euros...' - I said here, above all, I will say - '... from loans of one billion to five shipowners, will you be holding a meeting? Are you going to ask for responsibility? Are you gonna ask for the money back to shield the stability of the banking system? Will the Piraeus Bank be required to send to justice and punish the bank managers who have granted them? Or are you going to do the duck? You can hear me, you disgusting, and you're a high-ranking high-ranking high-growth archipelago who's got you the 100,000 of my own loan that I took because I was sprinkling, as Minister, I wasn't working as a doctor, and of course I wasn't getting any mistreat? Do you hear me, pitiful and trissaur government understood, who wanted a preventive line and a new memorial, and now you're "drinking" of 900 million euros that your shipowners had your pals smuggled along with the "kids" of Piraeus Bank and Marfin Vegeopoulos? Nothing will be forgotten, Yannis Stournara, and next time it will be different. Asteriograph: I'm also looking for that little monkey of paid journalism, the under-theft of the "SKAI", to see if he went to an ATM to see if he could make 900 million euros of the machine. That's what I wrote. That was the post that Mr Stournaras filed me with and asked for the waiver of my immunity. So what does the "king sun" claim from the Greek banking system? First, that he was supposed to be devoured, because I called him "wicky and trissatholite archipelago" and "undermining the SYRIZA government". And, secondly, that I allegedly slandered him, because I dared to ask him if he would hold a meeting on the Piraeus Bank scandal, whether he would do anything to bring back the money that the shipowners gave to them and whether he would ask her current management responsibility for her operations. Mr. Stournara, because I know you're listening to us, this lawsuit is laughing, and the highways of the university under your desk. And you know why? For while you have participated, Yannis Stournaras, for two years in parliamentary procedures as Minister of Finance - as an out-of-parliamentary, of course, because you have never been elected a Member or, in fact, you have never dared to ask for the vote of the people - you do not know or pretend that you do not know that the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament are not allowed to waive immunity for an act of MP linked to his parliamentary or political activity. Does anyone think that the text that I read to you does not relate to my parliamentary or political activity? Does anyone think that I addressed him as a private person and not as an institutional person to control Piraeus Bank? Anyone who has the slightest doubt about the following, I would refer him to my speech from the same Step here two days later - on 18 October - on 20 October 2020 in the debate on the contract of the transplant centre. I read you exactly the quote of my speech, which was made out by this House. It's in the Minutes of the House. "Mr Stournaras, when I took the trouble because I was so upset, because I didn't get any hatred and I didn't work as a doctor, 100,000 euros a loan, he held an extraordinary meeting at the Bank of Greece to see the legality and, of course, he found it legal, but the fuss was made at the time. Now that he's out that he gave 900m euros to Piraeus Bank, where is Mr. Stournaras? Is he alive? Is he breathing? Is there a meeting going to be held? Will he ask for the money to be turned back or 'do the duck', as he usually does in something like that?' That's what I said here. Find me even a difference, ladies and gentlemen, especially between my speech in the House on the substance of the matter and my post that the Commissioner is asking for my immunity to be waived. If you find out, you'll win a gold watch! If, indeed, he can argue in favour of the view that everything I have said and wrote is not linked to my parliamentary political duties, then he can gain from Mr Stournara a bank loan on the same terms as that of the New Democracy or his other "KERYKA OF CHANIA". But don't get tired, ladies and gentlemen. Even Mr Stournaras himself agrees in his denial that what I wrote, which I repeated in the House, concerned the performance of his duties as Governor of the Bank of Greece, and that he sues me with this status rather than as a private or ordinary citizen. So while he confesses - he writes it here - in the most explicit and unequivocal way that this is not a private dispute, but a political criticism to the face of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, he asks you to violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and to waive the immunity of the Member for what he said or wrote in the performance of his duties. I'm really wondering what else they're gonna ask you for. Do you know what the master's argument is invoked in his denial? His argument is that the phrase “wrong and trissy archival” is inconsistent with the validity of his position and that such expressions have a detrimental effect on the Bank of Greece itself. That's exactly what he says! Mr. archipetazitas, a harmful effect on the Bank of Greece is exerted by your actions and omissions, not by my political characters and criticism. I will repeat a sentence reminded me yesterday of Lorenzo Mavili: 'There is no vulgar language. There are vulgar people who speak the cleanser." My archipelagos, ladies and gentlemen, of course, you are aware that if such a request for the waiver of immunity of a Member of the New Democracy was made in SYRIZA, following a sues of this content, they would be made to the media by various Members, journalists, journalists, writers, etc. and would be vowed for many weeks that this is a cannabis case of violation of the Constitution and of the dismantling of the civil society of parliamentary democracy. You also realise that if I were to sue the current 'Minister of Development' - I do not see him here - Mr Adoni Georgiadis for what he has said and wrote from time to time for me or much more if Alexis Tsipras filed complaints against him, invoking exactly the same argument as Yiannis Stournaras, that is to say it is not in accordance with the authority of the Prime Minister of the country to call him "false" or "trisatholium" in this Parliament, it is certain that the Vice-President of the New Democracy Party instead of the day's ranch on the channels would have taken a permanent seat in the courts of the Eupid School. To remind you, here: 'Paulakis, the wretched man'. In here to me: "girl", "stroke", "girl", "kits". Here again: "Punk, punk" to the Prime Minister. The "First Theme" writes them: "Where this Trishant Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras cut off his pie, etc. Take these for the story. I'll give you more. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Now we're going to the point of the case, to see what complexity and corruption mean in all her majesty. Others had used the word "pimps". Do you remember, Mr. Stylianides? What's happened? I use articles not from party media in SYRIZA. It's a sinful case. What they did there - I was outraged that day - which had revealed "DOCUMENTO", was that: Piraeus Bank, the times that were being prepared for the bankruptcy of the country and Marfin Egnatia Bank had given a shuttle loan to some shipowners - the Chacos family, Ledoudi, Lamou, Midia, etc. - which was 1,048,000,000 euros, all shot. They had given 30,000,000 euros to Piraeus Bank executives, to participate in capital increases, to companies for renewable energies, had given some housing loans again to their large executives. All this was 1,200,000,000. So in 2015, under command, Salla, because all these loans were armed, it became a terrible setting: a company of a shipowner Mr. Logotti - indeed, the case is called the 'Libra loan case' - which is what he is doing? Go and buy - be careful, buy! - from Piraeus Bank this 1,200,000,000 euros at a price of 300,000, 80% haircut. The 1,200,000,000 gets it 300,000. And be careful, the 300,000, he didn't put it in his pocket. He put 100,000 in his pocket. The other 200,000,000 were provided by Piraeus to buy the loans. Do you understand what we're talking about? It's armed 1.2 billion. I don't pressure them to take them, I give them at 900,000, 000 to a shipowner, I cut 900,000, 000, and I give them for 300,000, 000, when his 200,000, I lend them, the bank's gunned. Not just that. It's starting to be a fuss. In 2017, therefore, under pressure, social, publicity, etc., the Bank of Greece, Mr. Stournaras, is forced to exercise control over Piraeus Bank, because within the statute of the Bank of Greece it is one of its responsibilities. So let's go down. Control shall be carried out in 2017. It comes out that it is terrible what is happening - I say it in simple words, in order for people to understand it - the loans and the first were given, without guarantees, and in the way the Logoter took it, there is still no safeguard and, indeed, it had started not to turn the 300,000, 000. It was only 94,000. So one conclusion comes out, goes to the Authority for money laundering, Mrs Zaire, asks the Bank of Greece for information, they are being delayed, they are finally sent, and Mrs Zaire sends it after - look out! - it binds accounts and assets - there were a lot of things that it committed - both the bank executives and the shipowners, what it could catch and control - it was a large amount of money, it was close to the billion that it committed as assets - and it sends it to the prosecutor of corruption. That was early in 2018 as far as I know. The Corruption Prosecutor is looking for it. I have here the figures from Mrs Zaire, who sent them and the conclusion that she had come out at the time - it is going on and the elections are taking place in July 2019 and August 2019, the corruption prosecutor is prosecuting against Sala and against another thirty-seven shipowners and bank officials for Piraeus's loans, for this case of 1.2 billion, finally, because, as has proved, the accountant also shot the rest, the 300,000, 000. Is that right? So the bank's damage, recorded and recorded, and then, it was close to 1.2 billion. So we are now in August 2019, with you government. The prosecution is being persecuted. A panic falls, as you can see, 'What is going on here?' What have you guys done? You brought the terrible and dreadful n.4637/2019, the change of the Criminal Code. What were you doing there, gentlemen? Two things that are linked to this case. Because the prosecution was conducted August 2019 and the amendment of the Criminal Code came in November 2019. So you did two things. Firstly, the malicious infidelity of bankers - take care, only of bankers, not others, only of bankers - you have committed it from an own-initiative offence against a criminal offence. In other words, a complaint must be filed with the officials to be prosecuted, while the whole procedure had been initiated on its own initiative after the publications, after the compulsory supervision of the Bank of Greece and the others. The one you voted on was that. The second is another wicked provision within the Criminal Code. If - says - such cases of unfaithful bankers have not been tried in eighteen months - what has been tried in Greece in eighteen months, not even a small plot in a village, which is 1,2 billion - then the confiscation of the assets is withdrawn. These were adopted in November 2019. You made a third then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u4	It's over twenty minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u5	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u6	There is no time limit to the defendant's apology, Mr Lebanese. I apologise now if you don't understand. I keep going and don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Polakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u8	So let's go. You did a third thing, too. You say in the law passed in November 2019 that for these offences by bank managers, infidelity, these 1.2 billion. In other words, the banks should be indicted within the next four months, i.e. until the end of March, to bring the indictment forward. Because the prosecution has been persecuted for them, but on the basis of that law you must indict. So what's going on then?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u9	Mr Polakis, that was then said in the House. Come to the point of yours. That's what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u10	Don't interrupt me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u11	Yeah, but get to the point. That's what was said then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u12	So the coroner's coming. You vote for this, it's the prosecutor in the pre-inquiry procedure, it's voted and the coronary comes in. You're pulling out the first MDGs. In the PPAs, which you made at the time in March and which were ratified by laws, you said that the functioning of the political and criminal courts is suspended, the deadlines for the procedures to be completed are extended. One procedure was this process of suing, that quadrant and everything. You're doing this with the first MDG. With the second MDG, what do you do in early April? You say that the functioning of the political and criminal courts is suspended, that all deadlines are extended, except for those relating to or have already been pressed for the infidelity of bank officials for which the four-month period remains! That is what you did with the PPP and the April ministerial acts. So he spent the four-month period...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u14	Don't cut me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u15	But we're not going to do an analysis of all the legislative work. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u16	These will not be heard by SKAI, but at the Step of the House they will be heard, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u17	Come to your point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u18	That is the point, because I will prove what Mr Stournaras has not done, and I said 'wicked and trissed'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u19	I'm not interrupting your point. But you cannot carry out an analysis of all the legislative work. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u20	So there's this thing going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u21	How long?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u22	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u23	Whatever it takes, Mr. Levane! For the time that they were voted, Alexis Tsipras puts a question about the gift of this thing, in which Mr Mitsotakis does not answer. Repeated reports by the FINANCIAL TIMES come out, which accuse the Mitsotakis Government of making an amendment - a gift to bankers and judiciaries. That's what happens then in November. So where did we arrive today, five to seven days ago? This one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Polakis, the subject is slandering and excitement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u25	Can you stop interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u26	I'll interrupt when I have to. You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u27	I am not going to stop unless I fully apologise. Please protect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u28	Please complete. You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u29	I'm in the middle of this. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u30	You're not going to make politics right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u31	Of course I am making a policy and reveal the complexity you have made with the help of Mr Stournara. So where did we get here? Ten days ago, ladies and gentlemen, an exonerating counsel for the Piraeus Bank scandal on 5-10-2021. They sign in spite of the fact that there are two decisions of the polluter council, which say they are unconstitutional, and the arrangement for a criminal offense, because what bank controlled by five to six big shareholders will be insulting the bank executives that these big shareholders have appointed? The small shareholders? That's unconstitutional. And it is also unconstitutional and the time limit you have not extended. There are two decisions. There is a decision from the section of the Ice Bay that says that the decision has been made and pending in plenary session. But in the meantime, this is coming out. And people say - the three judges who tried it because they have no responsibility here - that we are archiving the felony not because of evidence of innocence or doubts, but because of the immunity brought by the government by means of an act of legislation and on the basis of which the administration of Piraeus Bank has never been insulted as it was due against the scandal's protagonists. And she answers - beware of the courage - a Mrs. Argyros Kasapakis when they ask her "will you send us insultation, what will be done?" Says that ‘the only decision-making body for the implementation of the transitional provision referred to in Article 6’, that is to say, ‘has not decided’. He didn't decide in, so you got away with it and they're being forced to relieve them. So what could be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Polakis, please come to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u33	You don't mind, do you? I know, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u34	We don't mind at all. The Ice Bay Plenary will make a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u35	Don't talk to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u36	I'll interrupt you. As provided for in the Rules of Procedure. You can't be out of the question. Speak for yourself as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u37	I'm in the middle of a thing. So why did I tell Mr Stournara that I was pitiful and triish? Because the Bank of Greece's statute features, Mr Voridis, “the supervisory powers of the Bank of Greece include continuous monitoring of the implementation of the supervisory framework, capital adequacy, liquidity rules and the concentration of risks in the financial system, the examination of the compliance of supervised entities on an individual and consolidated basis with the framework governing their operation”. When this charismatic law has been passed on to the change in criminal codes based on the powers it had as a chief bankroller and king of the Greek banking system, should it not control Piraeus Bank and its executives if they were indicted? Did they file inmates when they were supposed to? Did he check them? There 1 billion does not cause instability in the Greek banking system. Here you have set before to take the homes of the world to clean up the banks and here you are giving out five shipowners and thirty captains 1.2 billion and Stournaras is not doing anything. But for the EUR 100,000 loan I received, he met the supervisory board to see if I had it legally, which I normally reimbursed. And for the armed forces of 1.2 billion, neither will it implement the institutional framework that you have voted on in order to complete the investigation, to make the trial and to be able to get the money back. It's them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u39	I'm not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u40	Finish, Mr. Polakis. You're confusing control of the expressions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u41	That's why when he went public...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u42	It is also a question of control and of expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u43	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u44	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u45	Don't interrupt me. I'm done. Who will tell me, then, this thing that Mr Stournaras has not done is not filthless and trissy at the same time that you have put before taking people's homes, at the same time that you are stalling a dose and taking banks with the collectors and it is not assembled, threatened, confiscated with the Banking Code that you are voting on? And five days ago, the exonerating counsel came out. All of this will be re-examined, because I hope that the Ice Bay plenary will stand up to it and unconstitutionalize the provision that you have voted on for the offence of felony infidelity - because these have failed the country - and for the non-extension of the quarter that passed, it goes on so that you have escaped it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u46	All right, the Marble Ice will decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u47	As I've told you many times, I'm not afraid of anyone, Mr. Stournara. I've proved it and I'll prove it again. Vote what you want. The truth is what I said. And whatever you do, and as much as those who took them out in the fort in the past few years, we don't give up on the flag, nor do we put our heads down. The new social alliance, we rebuild it and then a little while later things in our country will be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u48	Is there a colleague who wants to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Oh, no. We are entering the second case, Mr Dionysius - Charalambos Kalamatianos. Mr. Kalamatianos was Secretary General at the Ministry of Shipping and received an anonymous letter against him for infringements allegedly committed during his term of office. Such infringements are a bribery of a staff member, a breach of duty and a false statement that he has altered practically. Mr Kalamatianos came to our committee and asked for his immunity to be waived in order to settle the case before the court, and our committee unanimously said that the immunity should be waived. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I here today in your presence? I have my birthday today, as I was born today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u50	Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u51	Be well. Thank you. So why am I asking for my immunity to be waived? Because a false letter was sent to the Prosecutor's office, a letter bearing the name of an unknown person. The D.A.'s searched for the guy who writes his name underneath and puts the signature and the police confirmed - here is the attestation, within the accompanying file - that this person is unknown. The Prosecutor then, as provided for in the provisions, forwarded the file to Parliament for the further. This is, in fact, as the President said, an anonymous letter, an anonymous letter, which is unreserved, from the beginning to the end, false content and is aimed at my slander. It only aims to create impressions and try to hurt me morally and politically. It is so enthusiastic or enthusiastic that people from behind, who dare not even put their real name under that false letter. And they do, apparently, because they are afraid that if they put their facts on, they would be accountable and penalised for what they write in this letter. They fear, apparently, that they would suffer the consequences of the law for all of this. However, it is certain that all of this will be revealed, as will the hidden slander and falsification. In order to understand the scale of the lies, I will only say that this letter appeared more than two years after the events described. In other words, I was a Secretary-General in December 2019, this letter appears in January 2020, and I was already elected a Member in July 2019. So, after I was elected a congressman for these people or the person who wrote this false and slanderous content, they sent this letter in order to slander and try to hurt me. Obviously, from my term of office as Secretary-General, but also with my parliamentary action, I have disturbed them and are trying in this fierce dirty way to attack me. I therefore call for my immunity to be lifted, because I would like this dirty attack to be made clear before justice, but also to be revealed and accountable to these nicknamed slanders of mine. Immediately after the disclosure of their information, I will make an appeal against them to impose appropriate criminal penalties on them. But at the moment I have filed a complaint - because lies and slander are spreading on the Internet - against these slanders. I know that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure leave no room for examination of the facts. However, I must briefly mention a few things. The Transport Council is an advisory body. It is an institution which delivers an opinion on a change in shipping, on a tendering procedure, on the award of a public service contract or contract. The Council chaired by the Secretary-General - when I was thirty-four members - also expresses a simple opinion by the Minister for Maritime Affairs, whether he accepts or does not accept this opinion. No decision-making powers, just opinions. All the opinions of the Transport Council are posted on the Ministry's website and made known, as did the specific one that the alias of the editor accuses me of misusing. This opinion, therefore, was posted, the report was drawn up by the Secretary responsible and the relevant department of the Ministry and was known to everyone. There was no objection. The members of the Board did not object in particular to the opinion and the minutes. In addition, the alias editor falsely claims that I as Secretary-General did not send any opinion to the Legal Board of the State. But from the Rules of Procedure of the Legal Council of the State and the Ministerial Decisions, as they were, I had no such competence as Secretary-General. I'm telling you, to understand what fantasies they're writing in this letter. So no responsibility for sending a question to me. Only the Minister has this responsibility to send questions to the Legal Council of the State. In any case, irrevocable decisions have been adopted by the Council of State on this matter. They appealed against companies before the Council of State to annul the decision of the Minister and the Council of State by two decisions, 2285/2018 and 2286/2018, and the decision of the Minister and, incidentally, the opinion of the Board of Coastal Communications. A clear case, therefore, with decisions with the seal of the Council of State. These nicknamed writers go further and say something else, that I was supposed to be the Secretary-General with photographic notice, turned this pestilence line Corfu - Paxi - Lefkada - Ithaca - Kefalonia - Zakynthos and backwards. First of all, as Secretary-General, I could not sign any contract, nor could I sign any line, nor could I turn any line into barren. This is the responsibility of the Minister to proclaim in accordance with Article 8 of Law 2932/2001. In any case this request was made by the Ionian Islands. Those who are Members of Parliament from the islands know very well that the Ionian Islands themselves were calling for this route and there is a letter and request from the Ionian Islands Region - here is the letter - under Protocol No 588/108819/14-12-2017, which calls for the region to enter this route, to make this route and, indeed, describes within this letter and the port of departure and the port of intermediate ports and the port of final destination and the technical characteristics of the ship. In accordance with the law, the Council has therefore given its opinion and the Minister has announced the route. This route until recently was run. When I left the Ministry, and after the government changed, there was a reappearance of the notices, and the same company was running the routes. Where's the muzzle? What are they talking about? On the latter issue, the issue of money laundering, I do not even deal with it, is ridiculousness and misery, and I do not have to say anything. It is therefore clear that this stool contains irresistible facts and false ones from the beginning to the end. Throughout my presence at the Ministry of Shipping as Secretary-General, I had as my sole objective, purpose and interest the service of the public interest and of the citizens. I have conflicted with interest, have done my duties honestly and with integrity. This can be confirmed by all, all of the Ministry's servants and representatives of the port, administrative officials, representatives of shipping and coastal shipping, shipping, citizens, those who traded, local government and those who traded with the Ministry. I believe that there is no one of you who can believe that there is even a casting of truth in this letter. There's no sign of any crime being committed. It is clear that those who wrote this nickname have the sole goal of trying to slander me and hurt me morally and politically. So I call for my immunity to be lifted, and I firmly believe that the truth will shine, that justice will do its job, that justice will be attributed, and the false slanderers will be revealed and accountable for this dirty attack on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Under the Rules of Procedure, is there any colleague who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u53	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk a little too little. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As you know, at the time Mr. Kalamatianos was Secretary General at the Ministry, I was State Secretary and later Minister. I was therefore in association with the Minister and later exclusively responsible for the issue of maritime interconnections, and so we have often worked together in this regard. I will not cut anything new out of what Mr Kalamatiano has said, but in the face of what Mr Kalamatiano said, I think that this complaint is not just a slander but is obviously unfounded. I will not go into all the complaints, but I will say just one thing. The famous vertical interconnector, from Corfu, to Zakynthos, was, in fact, a request for years and the fellow Members of the Ionian Islands know it. It was a request which, since the first time I was on the Ionian Islands in my capacity as State Secretary for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, was put to me by the district manager and by all the players of the country. We also welcomed the final signature of this request, which was signed by me and Mr Kurublis and not by Mr Kalamatianos. So it has no responsibility for the notice that came out and was implemented. The most important of all is what Mr Kalamatianos said, namely that this line continues with the same ship characteristics and is proclaimed by the new administration, by Mr Plakatakis, for 2022. So where's the crime? Where's the melt? Only one can understand that the whole of the complainants are slandering and are aimed solely at breaking down the reputation of Dionysus Kalamatianos, who actually during his term of office at the Ministry has shown great zeal to improve the conditions of fishing on our islands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Santorinier. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that the vote includes the two cases of waiver of immunity, as mentioned above. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it out and to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u58	But I said before, Mr. Dritsa, if anyone wants to talk about this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u60	Wait a minute. Because you've served the Chamber of Commerce Ministers, exceptionally you have the floor, please for two minutes, if you'd like to speak about the case. Mr. Kurublis has the floor, and then Mr. Dritsas. Here, Mr Kurubli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I have been serving the Greek Parliament since 1996 and I have been confronted with colleagues from other parties in a political culture. Unfortunately, I experienced a very great injustice at some point when three ministers, the speaker, the Minister of Health after Andreas Xanthos and the Deputy Minister of Paul Paulakis, were here because of an anonymous, perforated, incomplete text, where some newspapers, in fact distinguished them, made such an incoherent text.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u62	Mr Kurublis, I understand that and we have many such incidents. Tell me about the case, please, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u63	We are coming back now and it is for the political system to be persecuted by a man, where there is no evidence to prove the complainants, by an anonymous complaint. The political world, of course, in the exercise of its duties, has the right to collision and to be frustrated and confronted, but must also protect itself. Such calls are, in fact, out of reality. I therefore think that this case has also been reported, Mr President, who thinks there is evidence, is a signatory. Otherwise the House - I am simply expressing my opinion, I do not share the only truth, I say this because life does not stop here - on these issues should demonstrate a high level of responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kalamatianos served the Ministry of Shipping and is well known in all the institutional circles associated with this Ministry that that period was one of the best periods of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. Mr. Dritsa, please have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. In a minute, I'll try to say what I have to say. The persecution against Paul Paul Paul Paulis is of a clear political feasibility and everyone knows it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u68	This case is over. Please. This case is over. We're talking about Mr. Kalematian now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u69	Don't interrupt me. I know, and I'm taking it into consideration. However, I must say that in contrast to the present case, at the expense of the Dionysus Kalamanianos, which does not seem to have any apparent political motives, at least. I don't know, maybe it does, but it doesn't seem. What I would like to say and, indeed, I am presenting it to Parliament and to you, Mr President, in the knowledge that the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is dealing with very serious cases and most cases very successfully. But ports and shipping have very great and conflicting interests and often dirty interests. We accepted as ministers on a daily basis either for the Port House or for ports, anonymous letters - usually aliases, not just anonymous - against everything, just by dirty interests. In his honor, Dionysus Kalamatiano proposes and calls on the lifting of his immunity to give the battle for this case, but there are too many people who have to fight the battle accordingly and did not give it as the SYRIZA ministers during our term of office at the Ministry of Shipping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. As I said, after you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check and revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please ask the Bureau or the relevant Members of this House to help you. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened for Members to vote on applications for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be tabled for the Minutes and will be taken into account in the electronic counting to be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u72	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members, Mr Paul Polakis and Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos. On the case of Mr Pavlos Polakis, a total of 280 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 174 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH'. 97 MPs. "PARON" 9 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. On the case of Mr Dionysius - Charalambos Kalamatianos, a total of 279 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 231 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 39 Members voted. "PARON" 9 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the request for waiver of immunity has been completed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-13-S1-commons.u75	With the consent of the House at 14.12' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 14 October 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, according to the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
