ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Statement of the State Budget for the financial year 2022'. Also, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Justice and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Justice". I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament Mr Vassiliou (Lakis) Vasileiadis, MP Pellas, the following:]] A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES [[Enter the reports from the relevant e-mail]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on FURTHER QUESTIONS There are three questions for today. There is the relevant document of the Secretary of Government. The debate will be taken at the No 240/1-12-2021 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Vasiliou Yoyakas to the Minister of Digital Governance on the subject: "Standardisation of ELTA branches in Thesprotia with staff". The State Secretary, George Georgios, will answer. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u3	Minister, a phrase can describe the situation in the Greeks of Thesprotia today: it is not the letter. The resolution of the company has brought staff cuts in our area too. We had departures because of retirement and voluntary retirement. The gaps were not filled with an eight-month project contract. The ELTAs were thus left with a distributor for the whole municipality of Igoumenitsa, a distributor, Mr. Minister, for twenty-five thousand and put residents. However, all thirty-seven villages in the Municipality of Sulio expect to be served with one, too, distributor. The situation is also tragic at the branch of ELTA in the Philiattes, where forty-seven villages are served by a rental and an employee moving every 10 days from fairy tales or from Igoumenitsa. Despite the efforts of fewer ELTA workers, problems in the service of the people are getting worse as long as the time goes. Public utility accounts shall be shared with delay, with the result that the discount on the timely payment is lost. Newspapers reach their subscribers after days, while some cards never reach. "Watched dissolution", Minister, writes about ELTAs, and it's not something that they're writing today, it's repetitive reports in local society. I am therefore presenting in the Minutes the previous publication, which, in fact, had written exactly the same thing, as I said a year ago. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Yoyakas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And while there is this situation, Minister, the worst came because in the new organiza­tion of ELTA there are only 12 staff available for the three branches of Thesprotia, 12 people for three municipalities with dozens of mountainous, difficult, remote villages and settlements. So you realise, Minister, that if no more jobs are given, and if no direct recruitment is made, the situation is not going to work. Now is the time to bend on this problem. Citizens expect you to give a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, thank you very much for the question, because it will give us the opportunity to say a few things about the operation of the ELTAs, I want to believe, but it is good for everyone else to hear about them. As you have often asked the ELTAs - and you are doing well because above all it is your interest to have a good postal service in Thesprotia Prefecture - you will remember that in 2016 by a law passed by the previous government, in fact, just by Article 197 of Law No.4389/2016 the entire ownership of the Greek State "ELTA S.A." had been transferred automatically and without consideration to the company "Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A.". I do not mention this as something new, it is something that has often been heard in this Chamber and it is something that, when in the previous government questions were asked operationally by the ELTAs - because I will tell you what competence has been actually left to the Greek public at the moment - when questions were asked operationally, as was the case, then the Minister responsible at the time, Mr Poppas, answered. There is such a response which I shall be presenting in the Minutes, Mr President, that I have no competence. I do not want to say the same, I do not want to give this answer here, I do not want to stick to the formal part of such a response, to 'I do not have competence'. In fact, he was answered by those who made sure that this transfer was made. I want to get to the bottom of your questions. You know very well that, when this government took over, there was in ELTA very great damage. There was a need to be given by the Greek people's money 6 to 7 million a month so that the necessary operation can take place so that they can perform their very important role and have universal postal service throughout the territory. We had to make a restructuring plan for the ELTAs. This restructuring plan is currently under way. It is a project that included a voluntary exit of one thousand nine hundred employees and even successfully crowned, as the officials looking at the data they have formed, really saw that this option is good for themselves. Therefore, it has been successful and we have received a number of contractors that were necessary through an SAEP procedure, which had never been done in the ELTAs. We have made concrete moves towards modernising the ELTAs, because there is a need for modernisation that will make this function competitive. There comes the Ministry of Digital Governance with only one role, the only role left on the basis of the previous government's legislative intervention: the supervision of the universal postal service on the ground. This is what is being done, and specific actions are being taken. It was for the first time in the ELTAs that we have never been, and we are really trying to meet all the needs, and I will have the opportunity to reply to the specific issue that concerns the Law of Thesprotia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Jogaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u7	Minister, the twelve staff scheduled for the three branches, namely, eight in Igoumenitsa, two in the Philadelphia and two in the fairy tale, do not go far enough. How do you expect, my Minister, two people to serve a whole municipality? Aren't they going to get permission? Aren't they going to be absent out of time? At some point, a health issue can happen, and what happens then? How's the job going to come out? I would also like to say to you that with the new establishment plan there are more places in areas with similar populations in Thesprotia, that is, with two or three municipalities and with many mountainous and remote villages. For example, nineteen in Fokida, sixteen in Kastoria, fourteen in Florina, thirteen in Grevena. A total of twenty-four seats, Mr Minister, that is, over 50% and valor, are given to our neighbour Preveza - and are welcoming, Minister, and I wish they were more - but with what logic are they given just twelve to Thesprotia? I would like to remind you that I had submitted to both the political leadership of your Ministry and the management of the company - as you mentioned very well in your prototype - a realistic proposal for the staffing of the three branches in the Thesprotia Prefecture. In particular, I suggested about sixteen to seventeen people, Minister, about half of what was foreseen in the previous establishment plan, without exaggeration, but in order to serve the needs of all the municipalities of Thesprotia. This proposal, Mr Minister, is time to take serious account of it. You also know how important the post office is for many of our fellow citizens, especially older people living in remote villages, how much more so when it comes to people who can't trade, cannot pay, can't read the news from their mobile or computer, who can live in our villages that are not adequately covered yet by telecommunications networks and can stay without internet and telephone. After all, we have lived through it in recent days, Minister, with the severe weather phenomena we have had and, unfortunately, our municipalities, Mr Minister, have an ageing population. The ELTAs therefore have an obligation as a universal service provider to think about these people. They must respect and act on the social mission and the social role to which they have committed themselves as an enterprise. We are asking you, once again, to exercise your supervisory role and to ensure that the ELTAs actually fulfil their role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, seeking the questions that have been asked for the ELTAs - why is it really interesting to see how this issue is dealt with over time by all the governments - I see a question of yours from the 14-3-2018, which you know what subject it was? It was the object of the fact that the phenomenon had been observed in the ELTAs not to pay back the money collected for PPC's accounts, so that they had been interrupted until connections with PPC, if you remember, precisely because there was no possibility, there were so many losses, there was such a mismanagement that neither wage costs could be served. This situation has changed. Questions of the type "Why do ELTA retain PPC's money" do not exist? An agency, which actually cost 7 million a month to the Greek State, is no longer in existence and the next period will be announced on the economic situation of this period. I will answer you on the substance. There's been an organogram for the first time. The establishment plan is precisely about the points of service that need to be found, but also about the need to respond to the real needs that exist in every county, and of course, with the rule of our obligation to universal service throughout the country. ELTA is the oldest Greek public company and as such, it must be preserved in the prestige and purpose it has and especially in the Greek territory, in the Greek region it plays a very important role. You made some population comparisons. I want to tell you this, all of course the population is also taken into account, but we all understand that what is most important in assessing the needs and staffing of these stores is the move that exists. And since you referred to Prevezis, I will give you a picture of what is happening: In Prevezis Prevezis Prevezis Prevezis: there are six post offices and four agencies, in Thesprotia, there are four post offices and seven agencies - four agencies - four, you refer to three, one indeed, one employee, but four post offices - but look at the volume of transactions. At the moment, the performance of postal items carried out at the Preveza stores is forty-six thousand ninety-seven-nine acts and you, in Thesprotia Prefecture, are fifteen thousand ninety-three forty-three, that is, about a third. At the same time, the total number of transactions made in shops and agencies, in Preveza, is two hundred and six thousand ninety - two and in Thesprotia Prefecture eighty - two thousand ninety - nine. These are the numbers for the first month of 2021. This does not mean, however, alone that Thesprotia must have a certain number of workers and Preveza must have someone else. However, it is certainly a very important factor and we are in the restructuring phase of the postal service as a whole with the aim of covering every part of the Greek territory. Of course, we are taking into account the move that is taking place in every prefecture and, of course, in the next few months, since for the first time there has been a first organogram, where corrective action is needed, but they will be justified, targeted, so that the Agency will remain healthy and can perform its role without charging the Greek State, but at the same time the last resident of the Greek territory feels that he has the presence of the postman, not only for correspondence but also for many other services that we know we need in the Greek region. You can be sure, then, that the Thesprotia Prefecture, as in all the other parts of Greece, has completed a study which is under way in relation to the need for staffing, where this must be done, where there will also have to be movements, and of course, where we need to have new agencies, where we need to have new places of service, and in the next few years. Because images like the one I mentioned before, in relation to the body's fracture, the way we saw it break down, we are not going to allow it to exist again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u10	We move on to the second with number 244/2-12-2021, a timely question for the first cycle of the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alexis) A gift to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The government freezes the payments of the NRP". The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis and you ministers can celebrate the growth rates. I will say that the recovery - not growth - is welcome after the precipitation, the appalling 2020 precipitation, which, of course, you diligently hide. What is more important, however, is that you are unfortunately hiding the situation in which the real economy is currently in place. I am referring to the fact that one out of four companies is in zero cash, according to GATT, that Greece has had the highest price of wholesale electricity throughout Europe for the whole month of November. This has never happened in history. Already the electricity tariffs have increased by almost 100%, and this is about the whole economy and, of course, the households, while the accuracy squeezes the citizens' available income and especially the most vulnerable. At the same time, branches of the economy operate because of the peculiar Lockdown pandemic, as they are forced to operate with restrictive measures, but do not receive the necessary support from the Government. And what is the government doing about this very difficult situation for the real economy? On the one hand, we see that the 2022 budget does not provide for the slightest sum - zero - to support the businesses currently affected by the pandemic. Nor is there any provision for the slightest sum - and again zero! - to support the society and the economy that is currently being affected from the point of view of accuracy. At the same time for the Recovery Fund - and we said it before last week in my timely question with the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Pylakakakis - from the 2021 budget, which the government was talking about EUR 2.6 billion, we have reached EUR 150 million once expenditure, i.e. we do not have the necessary resource flow to the real economy. And in all these difficult circumstances, where funding for the real economy is more pressing than ever, it seems that you, too, have progressed to the freezing of the ESDP. It is a move that has no developmental logic, obviously, to cut investment costs in these circumstances, a move which has no budgetary logic, because, of course, the resources of the NRP are co-financed, most of them returns to the country by the European Union. So I ask, Minister, this is the following: have payments for the NRP been stopped? How much money do you owe right now? According to the data we have from the Ministry, it is more than EUR 1 billion that is currently pending in relation to the needs to be met by the end of this year. I am referring in particular to three main categories - because I want to be very specific about what I am saying - medium- and small-scale contractors throughout the country, small and medium-sized enterprises that have been put into entrepreneurship support programmes - and I am referring, for example, to the programme of non-refundable regions from the MFFs - and the 'EXOCOGO'. They are three categories which concern too many of our fellow citizens, hundreds of businesses, thousands of workers. We are also talking about wages for workers who are currently frozen. And I ask you: is that a decision by the Ministry of Development? Is that a decision of the Ministry of Finance? Is that the Prime Minister's decision? I think you should give answers, because this move is a move, which in these very difficult conditions for the real economy is a bomb at the very heart of trying to bring the economy back to these extremely critical times. And of course, Minister, please, because I ask you to respond not to me, but to respond to those who are currently fighting for their payments, do not answer me with absorption tables. We've lived, we've done it, I've done it personally, we know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u12	Finish, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a good first. Of course, it is very much about the fact that too many pandemic expenditures have been passed through the ESDP. But the question is not about absorption. The question is what actually reaches the real economy, the real beneficiaries, the real beneficiaries, the business, the workers and the households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u14	All right, all right, that's understandable. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, I want to be very honest. I thought that, following both ELSTAT and EUROSTAT's last few days' announcements, you would find a good way to withdraw this question and thank you very much for not doing so, it shows a very great courage. I'm starting with the last one to give you time to prepare. You said about the absorption tables of the NRP that you have done it yourself. So I challenge you to present a SYRIZA government table, where Greece was first throughout Europe, one! Give me one day - one day! - where Greece was first! For reasons of history alone - because people are listening to us - I note that on the day I took the political responsibility of the ESDP with the Development Ministry's group, with Giannis Tsakiris, Dimitris Skalkos and special secretaries, Mr Zervos and Mrs Dandolos, we were in the nineteenth place in absorption. Today our Greece from the nineteenth place is in first place. And when we talk about absorption, we're talking about payments, so we're talking about money coming to the real economy. Look out, we're not talking about a commitment marker. You, in fact, committed the NRP to several projects, most of which were never. We are talking about expenditure, tariff payments, that is, money that has reached the real economy. So in your question if money arrives in the real economy, yes, since we are first in Europe, money arrives in the Greek economy. Let us take it a little wider now, and because you were in the Ministry of Development - and I will say good Minister, within the framework of the SYRIZA government, I would say surprisingly good - I come to the subject that I am interested in, the Public Investment Programme and the national co-financed part - that is to say, to understand the world - because you understand, but the world does not understand - and national resources - and resources that we pay and get back from Europe the part of the ESDP. On the day of SYRIZA - five years of SYRIZA! - was there a year - one that was executed at 100%, without " parking" money at the end? Not even one! Do you know what you did every year and it's impressive? It is impressive that in all the Troika reports for a five-year period of SYRIZA, one of the issues that the troika raises in its reports is the sub-implementation of the Public Investment Programme. At the same time, that is to say, when the Greek economy had a recession, at the same time that we were all saying that we had no money, you were able for five years to make the money of the Public Investment Programme not to give it a year in the real economy. So you went every day, every year at the end of the year and you put 500 million into the Development Bank, 600 million in the Bank of Greece, "park" that is, what you've parked in order not to lose it in various accounts, because you have not been able to pay it in the world, in the real economy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Two years of government, Mrs. Mitsotakis, and I will also have to say to myself as Minister of Development and Investment, the following: Do you know, Mr. Haritsis, what has been done these two years in the Public Investment Programme? And it's exactly the question you're asking me. In 2020, Mr President - and I am proud of this - the Public Investment Programme in Greece spent 11 billion euros on it. It is the largest cost of the Public Investment Programme since the first day Greece entered the European economic communities. And this year, second year, we will close to 10 billion euros, which is the second best performance throughout the history of Greece since our accession to the European economic communities. And be careful, Mr. Haritsis, because you asked me the question of payments this year, we have increased the Public Investment Programme three times. Three times we have increased the Public Investment Programme! What for? Because the money is spent, that is, the payments you ask about are made. And it is done by a government that does not let one day go lost, by a government that is over the people's problems 24 hours a day, by a government that leaves and has not left a single company and is trying to solve the problems, to undo payments, to carry out projects, to move on with investment. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I will return to my dentext for the specifics that have been set, especially for the 'EXECONOMIC' programme which I am interested in, because 'EXECONOMOS' is important, but also for people to listen to. Mr. Haritsis, you said a little bit small - a little small, I said! - for the development of the Greek economy in 2021. Yeah, obviously it's recovery. Of course, it is internationally called 'development'. The growth indicators speak in the European Union, in the international economy, but also in Greece. But I want to accept exactly what you said. From -9.1% of 2020, from a very great recession, everyone expected that Greece in 2020 would have the biggest recession in the European Union. He didn't have it. Spain has had it very differently, which is your political model. This year, then, let's go - we'll see where it's going to get - as we say, 7.1%. However, with the information published, this seems to be a modest calculation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u16	Good, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, let me finish. Let's go to being one - take care, ladies and gentlemen, and close with this - of the three European economies - one of the three! - which will have healed at GDP level all the damage of 2020 in one year. Look, the twenty-four other countries of the European Union will not have achieved what our Greece has achieved! So don't take that so for granted, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor, either from your position or from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I will reply from here. I don't have to come to Stepma. Mr Minister, it seems to me that unfortunately once again we have a deaf dialogue. I told you not to compare 2020 with other years. We're in a pandemic. Infinite expenditure has been spent through the Public Investment Programme and the ESDP. And I'll say that right. I don't have a problem with that. But it is a matter of what happens now, Minister! And I say 'what is happening now' because I have here a letter sent to you on 22 October by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Technical Companies. The title, the subject of the letter, is: ‘Stage of projects’. There, therefore, reads: 'The relevant protests by our members concern even integrated projects'. I'll put it in the Minutes. The Association of Technical Companies comes back on December 2nd and says: "We have sent you a letter to which we have not..... Today that we have already entered the last month of the year, the phenomenon has not only been limited, but has been generalized in almost all projects...". That's what he says, I'm not saying it. Not to say I say mine. The Panhellenic Association of Diplomatic Engineers of Public Works states: "We are recipients of complaints from members of our union about significant delays in payments of works in progress and financed by the NRP". The Panhellenic Association of Diplomatic Engineers of Public Works is reverting to the following: “We are receiving complaints from our members, from our Union, from the Workshops of Public Works, about major delays in the programs of “INTENDING” and “PHILIDIS””. That was November 9, 2021. The Panhellenic Association of Liaisons of Public Works, writes: "Public works payment stop". He's addressing Mr. Stakoura, but he's giving it to you too. This is November 3rd. They write: "Our federation has been accepted by an increasing number of complaints about a lack of funding for projects that are either under way or have been completed". ‘A hundred-month-old lawyers are being made redundant from the ESDP programme’. Depending on what you said and I'll wait to see your data. However, because we also asked seventy SYRIZA Members - a Progressive Alliance a few days ago, what is the answer? That of the thirty-seven-and-a-half thousand applications - I am talking about the 2020 programme and not about the new one that will start now - do you know how much payments have been made? Eighty! Eighty payments have been made to thirty-seven thousand, that is, 0.21% of the total! So that's the reality! To all these people you need to answer, to businessmen, professionals, unpaid workers, to households in which they don't get their money from "EXOCOCONOLOGY". So you must respond to this reality, which really cannot be answered by absorption indicators. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have said from the outset that I understand the transfer of funds to the Programme for Public Investment on the issue of pandemic. But, at the moment, what is happening is that we unfortunately have a pause of payments to investment projects which are extremely important, which also undermines the effort for next year. When we start from such a low starting point, when we have so many loose ends, which will of course be transferred to the next year, what will happen in 2022? What is going to happen in 2022 with the Recovery Fund - and we have been talking about it with Mr. Psulakakis last week - when the expenditure that was budgeted for this year and carried over next year has not been spent? Who exactly are they going to be? This year's or expenditure already planned for 2022? Unfortunately, this is the situation! As regards the others now in relation to the events of the SYRIZA Government in the co-financed programmes between 2015 and 2019, these have been recorded in history. No matter how much you do to alter this story, to falsify it, if you wish, you will not succeed. We've testified. I have testified them to the House too many times. If you want me to file the evidence one more time, I'll do it. The President himself then of the European Commission, in April 2018, had said in an official statement that Greece is the first and in the absorption of the European co-financed programmes of the ESDP and the Juncker Plan. Then, of course, you didn't celebrate. At that time, you have listened to an equal-minded opposition. But I say - and that is the point, Minister, and that is what you need to answer - what is happening today. I am tabling all these letters from the links showing what is the real picture. I know very well that you, your colleagues, have also received too many messages from your ministry from your partners and from protests about late payments. I know very well that self-government, too many districtlors and mayors are mad at this situation. They must also assume their responsibilities and place themselves publicly on what is really happening. Most importantly, however, we must put an end to this set-aside of payments, which undermines all the Greek economy's development efforts in these very difficult circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Haritsis, I told you if you had any, to testify to a board of the Commission you were first. You refer to a statement by Mr. Juncker - a statement there is, I expect you to table the table - that had actually happened trying to encourage you to get on the right track. Another commitment, I told you, another absorption. You made a commitment, you didn't make payments! And in order for the world to understand it, I will say this: When I took the political responsibility of the Ministry and you were already in the fifth year of the NRP - in the fifth year, 2014 - 2020, I took over in 2019 - you were spending 22%. From 100% of the NRP, you've been able to pay 22%! Yesterday, two and a half years later, we're at 75%. So don't talk to me about payments. The record that has been made over the last two and a half years has to be recorded in Greek history. Now, with regard to what you said that because of the pandemic's expenditure this has happened, I referred on purpose in a comparative table, that is, a table between the twenty-seven countries. As far as I can remember, all twenty-seven countries have pandemics. The Treaty is no different with the other countries. We just did better than all the other countries. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u22	It is simply that the other countries did not change their programmes and that they did not go through the expenditure there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u23	We made it better...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Haritsis, what are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Haritsis, don't get upset. We did better than the other countries. We're first, and everyone else sees us in binoculars.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u26	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u27	And that is why you must be happy, Mr Haritsis, as a Greek citizen and a congressman, not to get upset. The irritation about our national success is a bad thing. Suffice it to tell you, after you tell me about statements, that yesterday the new German Finance Minister, Mr Lindner, - and because you said about inflation in Greece - said the asbestos he did not play so much in the media, he has played the other thing that he said, "we need to be an example like Greece", he said about Greece. He said: Greece is a model country now, with high growth and low inflation. That is what he said to the German Parliament yesterday, since we are talking about foreign statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u28	Do you claim to be low inflation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u29	Sure. We have one of the three lowest inflations throughout the European Union. On a yearly basis, Mr. Haritsis, we will have 0.1%. If 0.1% is called a great deal of inflation to tell me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u30	In November, how much will it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u31	With regard to November that we had 4.3%, if you read correctly, you would know that in November 2020, when we compared it, we had a minus 2%. So from minus 2% we've gone to 4.3%. You don't even know that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u32	Eight percent of growth, how did we get there? Are you going to drive me crazy? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Haritsi!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u34	Whatever you do, three days now all the international media - not to say about the Petsa list - and all the European authorities congratulate Greece. We are fed up with congratulating all the European authorities and all the investment houses. The only ones you don't recognize are you. As far as payments are concerned, Mr President, there is no point in making payments. As soon as the regions were given 100 million from the Public Investment Programme yesterday, to make payments, and I would remind you that we have already paid in all the regions all the money we provided for in the budget. So these 100 million we gave them are above the budget, it's extra money to pay, of what we had budgeted at the beginning of the year. So no regional ruler can complain about anything at all. All the money we had said we'd give them, and now we've given them 100 extra million. And as far as the co-financed part - because these 100 million are from the national side - is concerned, we have given another 300 million to make payments. So in the total, within the past four days, we have given 400 million. So don't tell me about pause of payments. And I repeat, Mr Haritsis: how can we at the same time have stopped payments, as you claim falsely, and at the same time have the greatest absorption and execution of the Public Investment Programme? Watch out for people to understand the difference. The highest point that SYRIZA has ever reached in the Public Investment Programme, bringing together the national and co-financed strand, the maximum, what they achieved in the five years, was 4 billion. And what we have achieved in two consecutive years is 21 billion. And they have faces and talk! So now let's go to "EXECONOMY", to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u35	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u36	At EXOCOMOVOS, Mr. Haritsis, there's a real problem I want to talk about, so people can hear it. What's happened? The applications submitted only 1% are complete applications in the first evaluation. In other words, ninety-nine applications have means of errors which under the regulation are forbidden to be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u37	And what about "EXCONTACT" was the opposition? It's never the government's fault? In the previous programs, why didn't there be any mistakes? Why are the mistakes now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Haritsis, you're a man right. What are you doing today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u39	I'll answer for the past few years, don't rush. I'll answer. 20% of applications are enough to be complete after the second assessment. That means that they are resuming the application. 40% after the third assessment, i.e. they have submitted the third time the application and 39% remain with problems and after the third assessment. So there is a serious problem, and the applications should be much more careful now in the way they make the deposit at the "EXECONOMY" if they want to get their money quickly. The money is committed to the Development Bank and once the application is accepted, the payment is made in the same second, automatically. If you haven't made a mistake on the platform, you're automatically paid. He says, "Why in the previous...?" That's a good question. Because you will certainly be aware, if you are diligent, that in the control carried out by the NGO in the payments of the previous EQUIPMENT programme, programmes on your day, it has found so many mistakes in applications, Mr Haritsis, that it has fined 7 million at the Development Bank. For what? Because you were actually paying, but you were paying without checking. And who finally paid the money? The Greek taxpayer! So we said: there will be no payment of any applications if it is not entirely correct on the basis of the regulation and those who make the applications look after them properly. Because you taught them how to do it poorly and finally the Greek taxpayer pays them back. If you want the JHA control report on your days, to see what crimes you have committed, very gladly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Georgiadis, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u41	I'm hanging up. So he's a nerve from the SYRIZA party to make suggestions to us. In all the indicators, we have overcome them in an amazing way, and I am very proud of that. Thank you very much. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u42	Now, if you want me to tell you a conclusion, I will say that if Greek citizens were to attend and attend the meeting they didn't understand anything at all because...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u43	That's your target.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u44	And you didn't respect the other speaker. At least Mr. Georgiadis was not interrupted. We continue with the third with No 235/30-11-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Garyfallias (Lianna) Kanelles to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Tbillos Training Centre and the Panhellenic Tbillon Association have fired a blind educational teacher". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Michailidou. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Canelle, with relative tolerance to you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I'm sounding. It's hard enough for me to talk because of allergic rhinitis with the mask, I hope I sound good. Mr Minister, I will be back in less than two months' time on a question. And unfortunately I'm coming back. And this time I'll start with my request. Please, I would ask you, without it being insulting, to intervene in renewing the work contract of this blind teacher and, besides, being an indefinite period of time, as well as the others, because - and I would not start with it, believe me - the climate currently prevailing in the CECT and the CECP is devastating and we are concerned that it will be converted into a deafness sooner or later. There are also the corresponding dictates from the European Union to replace creative education, something like the deaf Foundation, and to become an open book. And you and I recognized the work of the KATT here last time. We talked about ages too, talked about a number of other things. Let's go see today why. I would not have started, I would say again, by demanding that I had not seen the Director's answer, and if what she says about empathy and heterocracy were not literally implemented in her reply. The answer he gave to workers' requests and to us, indirectly, that we bring them to Parliament, begins with the following reference to a twenty-seven-year-old girl blind, with a degree, with incredible seminars, with two languages and now going for a third language. He acted as "the lady in question". And that's all you understand. And you and I, if we want to iron or despise, there are other ways from the hybrid and not even writing. Criterion has been reached. They're lying infinitely. Transparency is inconceivable. They say they didn't have money to renew. They actually fired eight and took seven back, Minister. Don't tell me that the CFP and the 'Prototeria' are independent of the CEAT. Don't tell me that again, because 99% of these two, if they don't cooperate, there's neither the CFD nor the CFD. There's a tendency to go farthers. You cannot have officials in you - I am bringing you an example very clearly - and not giving them any work. In their place of hiring two, a philosopher and a gymnast, of whom the qualification-based philosopher - for qualifications I will discuss in my dentistry, if you like - and I would see and be fired one that does not see. At the criteria, if you want to see what you have entered and considered to be, as I am allegedly, pioneering, why is this a pity and unfair, really, and I do not think you want to do so unfairly, are there any criteria on which there is a three-month seminar with twenty-year pre-service in special education? Because, if you want transparency, in special treatment, here, in the problems of disabled people, you would not put a pre-service in general - not you, the lady who put them - would put a pre-service special, since we are talking about special schools, not a general service. People have been recruited, in order to reach agreement, that is, in your common sense and in an elementary spirit. You cannot hire people and permanentize them, make them unlimited of time, who have full time gob - to say it so that Greece can understand it any more, that is, modernized work - that is to say, full work in other bodies and have full work within the JAPD and the JAPD. How can I tell you? You cannot claim that this is democratic or modernistic and there are also a thousand two. There can be no such argument: 'We are good, we have given 14 wages.' I can't understand it. He had to give twelve. This is a fight to get us back to fourteen payrolls, isn't it? We can't want to frame it. The demand is, therefore, that a girl twenty-seven years old, bright, like another older age, be fired, no work will find or be able to move their lives forward and the government's programme for the inclusion of people with disabilities in normal life, when you replace a qualified twenty-seven-year-old with blindness, with some - if only take so many - is not implemented and then say that you are in favour of inclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u46	Minister Michailidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kanelli, I think that we are really undermining the role of the National Representation when we come here to discuss or call on each other whether or not it was ironically the comments made within an independent non-profit company between two employees or not only ironically between the two, if the company judged the parchment or the languages that one lady had, which was called upon to work there for a very specific job. If you want to talk about this, we can talk about it. I understand that this lady was speaking two languages, both Greek and Albanian, but that company, namely the "Protoporia", decided to take the blind teacher. Why did he take her? She took it because there was an educational teacher in the AMEO, who asked for a sick leave, and during the sick leave they hired a lady, who you were right, who spoke these two languages and when the other lady returned from the sick leave, unfortunately the fixed-term contract had to be terminated, and she went home, but the "PROPORY" assures me that this lady, when she opens a new job, will be able to work there. Now, in how you understand and understand how the Typhle Education and Rehabilitation Centre works, it seems not only to me that I have another view, which you would expect me to have another view, but also to have a different view, but also to the National Typhle Association, from you, from both sides of the Blind Association and the RESEMA, in the minutes, which say they are very pleased with the new administration of the Education and Rehabilitation Centre. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I also want to tell you that the 'prototype' is, indeed, different from the CEAT. The KEAT may be the main shareholder of "Protocorcia", but, on the other hand, it is not customary for the person who gives and the money, at least, not our logic. I disagree, because it cannot be the person who gives the money, who also does the task, especially, to an agency that has the sensitive and particularly important character, which, as you said the previous time, we discussed here. So what I would really like is to know about the facts, and that is what I have the task of exposing to the National Representation, rather than all of us being tempted by a heavy title, such as 'CEF fired a blind official'. I shall, therefore, begin - and it is important here - by the procedure followed by the 'Protoporia' - not the Blind Education and Rehabilitation Centre - for all the new recruitments it makes for this one. For this purpose, on 10 August, the "PROTOPORIA" sent a public invitation of interest for fixed-term jobs to the Centre for Creative Employment, published on its site, but also to the "Golden Guide". For the first time, in this publication, the necessary and desirable qualifications of all the people who will be invited to work at the Centre for Creative Employment are described in detail, contrary to all the ambiguities that existed in the previous calls, which, of course, left room for arbitrary choice and I will tell you what I mean. This year, too, for the first time, this invitation was for contracts for ten months and not for three months or four months. The interested parties sent their CV and were invited to provide two interviews, which were made online for good reasons, at the "Prototoria" alone. The first interview was held with the manager of "Protocornia", the second and with the director of "Protocorcia". And why am I saying that? Because it is very important that neither the administration nor the president of the CST were in these interviews. And what did we do like that, Mrs. Canelle? We managed to get those hired to have nothing to do with the employees of the CEFT, because I sat and searched year, year and year, and since 2007, there have been fourteen - not one, but fourteen! - the recruitment of relatives, alpha and beta grades of the CEFT at the "PROTORIA". This is over, recruitment is done with absolute transparency, according to workers' qualifications and the previous state of arbitraryness and related covertness is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Mrs. Kanelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u49	I'm afraid you were framed in untrue events. The way in which the recruitments were carried out, believe me, is opaque. A month ago, quite surprisingly, in August, the people who take the hire were replaced, if you go to ask at this time how many applications have gone, they won't even answer you to understand. They won't even answer you. The e-mails left and went to "PROPORY" and no one will answer you how many requests were made for recruitment. They were replaced by two people. These two people are the ones who are sending you today, congratulating you that they are very happy because they are their own people. If you want to talk by their name, we can talk by their name. Aren't you telling me? Replace the lady who was missing on sick leave. If she replaced her and the lady turned around, why did she also need an intake of a philosopher? Because there's no object, they don't give her any work. Do you know that there are people permanent inside who have made them go to various schools to do Braille and nothing else and not to work inside? It's clear the plan and it's knipped, possibly, without even getting a scent. They object to the appointment or the existence of people who do not want to abolish the substance of the public structure. That's the reality. There's no other way, I honestly tell you. Try to understand it. Go to the CEAT itself and ask people. And you'll see that you'll get different things and feel completely different about what's going on in there, the one that, possibly, comes you by letters. They're getting a philosopher. So they needed it. So it wasn't enough that he came back from the recovery. There I ask you: why did they take a view rather than renew the skilled, blinded experience? Is it so hard to answer that? Why wasn't it renewed? Did he have less qualifications? The truth is, in the past, the qualifications were unclear. Would you like to see the clarity of the qualifications that have entered now? Do you want to see her? What is the clarity? The criteria for recruitment are: a degree, a seminar in special education and knowledge of the Braille language. It is desirable that postgraduate, pedagogical competence and pre-service and not special treatment. But, really, are these objective criteria? A seminar is enough to replace, in an institution that you yourself admit that what has done so far as a public institution has done so far, the CECT? Can we not allow people to move forward? The other three who left, the two of whom are in KEAT, and they were necessary, we are talking about eight people who were persecuted and taken to their place seven. What are we sitting here talking about? It's visible. We replace these eight with another seven. Who's who it looks like? He's screaming from a distance. I'm telling you, honestly. It is no coincidence that you take from those who have succeeded and appointed a side - to tell you side by side, directly, at the same time, as you wish - or people who have been easy to handle and who have fired seven who have been difficult for them. But it opens a bad precedent for a sample to society, businessmen, the public. The position that I want you to take is: How can it not be preceded, by this trend you have, a qualified disabled man, blindly in this regard, and replaced by seeing? I wish you had the opportunity to get five seeing and five not seeing and five seeing and five not seeing and five not seeing. In any case, it would need a lot more staff, not just the CEAT. But not to lose its character and substance, on the pretext that we have forms of organisation that are not directly controlled by the Government, such as 'PROTORIA' or 'CAP', or to try to substitute one another, so that it 'divides and reigns' between the private and public sectors, is to destroy the necessary and demand that is full integration - education rather than simple employment of people who have the peculiarities not to see or not to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u50	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kanelle, I want to be clear, I really want to be clear. I do think we are sitting here at the National Representation and discussing why we have taken one lady without the two languages, but the Braille script, and we have not taken the other lady with the two languages, that is, it is not possible to lower the dialogue here at that level.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u52	Don't make it comfortable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u53	I didn't interrupt you, I really didn't interrupt you. What are we dealing with? We are dealing with a blind lady whose fixed-term contract is not renewed. Why was that lady working at this company? Because another lady, who was also working in this company, got sick leave. So after she got this lady sick leave, shouldn't anyone have gone to make it up to her? Yeah. Who went? That blind lady with Greek and Albanian. That's right, and it went.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u54	You made it gossip...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u55	But at some point, the other lady's sick leave ended, and the lady with blindness had to leave, as her contract with the non-profit company said. So this lady is gone. What do I think the management of the Blind Rehabilitation Center tells me? She tells me that when a position is created, because that lady was good, we'll get her back. But in the intervening period another position was created for a philosopher. That lady was a philosopher? Yeah, he was a philosopher. Did he prefer this position? No, he didn't prefer that position. Why? Because another philosopher, who was also crippled, was cancerous, but because he was seen, was thought that with children with a lot of disabilities - I don't know if you've been to CEAT, I go every month - it had to be someone who saw them, because they are children who are deaf, they have also blindness and their cases are so difficult that they were considered by the experts of the non-profit organization "PROTORY" that this man should be seen. A month ago we were here again to discuss KEATT again with another corresponding lady who came to you to come to me and discuss it here together. What did you say to me there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u56	You're demanding KEATT...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u57	Why would we, he says, be responsible for a gentleman who doesn't see, why his disability and blindness, you tell me then, was he qualified to get him a manager while we took another lady who had come back to you again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u58	You made it gossip...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u59	You don't sound anyway, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u60	Why, you're telling me, blindness cannot be the only criterion. Well, make up your mind. Is that your criterion? Isn't that your criterion? We cannot come here every month and discuss why a non-profit organization chose the debate and not the other one, when the criteria are clear and for the first time they are not hired over there relatives. Fourteen relatives in the last decade, this on my leadership here has changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. The time is 10.20 minutes. At 10:30, the bill begins. There are already some colleagues in the House, but the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives will come for the opening process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before entering the legislative work, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers of the Interior, Economic and Financial Affairs, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Civil Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and the State Secretary for Culture and Sport have tabled on 6 December 2021 a draft law entitled ‘Protecting volunteering, strengthening civil society's action, fiscal incentives to strengthen the co-operative action of the Community. and other provisions.’; It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Justice and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Justice". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 2 December 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. The speakers will now be registered electronically, until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. I assume that there is no objection to the basic procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u63	The House unanimously agreed. Please open the electronic record. The rapporteur, Messinia, Mr Ioannis Lambropoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is currently being introduced to Parliament under the title: "Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Judiciary", which was set up in 1994 under Article 88(3) of the Constitution and operated with the first students in 1995. The purpose of the bill is to reform the organisation and functioning of the National School of Judges to improve the quality and time of justice. In a speech, the President of the Republic, Mrs Katerina Sakellaropoulou, said that the delayed administration of justice, in addition to the serious social, economic and budgetary consequences for citizens and the state, is a major blow to the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, society, the economy and, more generally, the demands of times require rapid and fair decisions. This will be achieved by modern judges, who will have excellent and multifaceted training, independent opinion, good judgment, ethos, seriousness, modesty, faith in democracy. Citizens demand that the judge who is called upon to apply the law and give justice to be an example in society and never be the subject of unfavourable discussions about inappropriate behaviours and criminally flattered acts, which unfairly affect the entire judiciary and the confidence of the citizens. Some of the important innovations of the bill are: the inclusion of funding from the National School of Justice in the Recovery Fund, the extension of the powers of the Board of Directors, the Director-General, the Director-General and the School's Training and Training Councils, the start of operation for the first time in the direction of peacekeepers, the publication in the Official Journal of the Government of the notice of introductory tender by the end of May of each year, the reduction of the age limit for the introduction into the National School of Judges from forty-five years to forty-five years, participation in the introductory tender of candidates who have the status of peacekeeper, or of the Legal Council of State, or of the judiciary with a diploma in law, the establishment of a successful written examination of a foreign language as well as the introduction into the School of four types of training courses, the change of gravity between written and oral testing, the establishment of an eight-monthly training courses of an instructional establishment, the establishment of an educational establishment, the establishment of a special school-level-level evaluation and triparticulated school-level of the two-level-level-level-level-level-based community, the evaluation, the two-based community-based community-based community-based community-based community-based community-level and the evaluation, the evaluation, the evaluation, the evaluation, the evaluation and the evaluation of which is carried out of the two-level of the two-leveling of the evaluation of the two-level of the evaluation of the two-level of which is carried-level of the school practice of the school-level of the education-level of the school-level of the education-level of the school-level-level-level education-level training-levels of the school-level training practice and tri-level education-level education-level education-level training-level training-level training-level training-leveling of the school-level training-level education-level training-level training-level education-level training practice, the school education-level of the school education-level education-level-level education-level training practice, the school practice, the training practice, the recognition of the recognition of the recognition of the recognition of the recognition of the recognition of the recognition of the recognition of the school-level of instructional school-level- The National School of Justice is a legal entity governed by public law, has administrative and financial autonomy, is supervised by the Minister of Justice and has a seat in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. The school's purpose is to select and evaluate those to be appointed to the post of essay judges of the Council of State, the political and criminal courts and the continuing training of the active judicial officers. The school cooperates with national and foreign educational institutions, with other bodies and participates in European training programmes. The school is financed by the Recovery Fund and the state budget. The Administrative Body of the School of Judiciary shall be the Administrative Board, the Director-General and the Director-General for Economic Planning and Supervision. In the National School of Judiciary, three training and training directors are assigned to the National School of Judiciary Officers and two curriculum advisers are run, consisting of five members. The National School of Judges also operates three boards of teachers. The formation of the above institutions is undeniably worthwhile, objective and transparent. Subsequently, the draft law lays down all those relating to the selection of the trainees, by the notice of invitation to tender each year by the end of May, the qualifications required to participate in the tender, applications for participation, the Committee for Introductory Tenders, the time and place of examination, the stages of the tender, the ranking of the candidates, the registration of the successful tenderers, and their remuneration. The introductory competition provides for three stages: a written examination of a foreign language, which is now prerequisite for admission to the School of Judges. The successors of the first stage shall participate in the second, which shall include a written examination and the third oral. The final degree of success of each candidate is the sum of the average of the written test with a coefficient of gravity - we hope, Minister, that a change will take place here and come to 75% - and the average of the oral procedure at a rate of 25%. The transparent and objective manner of selecting the tendering committee shall be a guarantee of fairness and of the oral examination. Contestants enter the school with uninterrupted exams and complete their training only with successful exams. The final grade is increased by one tenth of the unit for each postgraduate diploma and for not more than two. A very important part of the bill relates to the evaluation of morality and behaviour, but also to psychiatric research, after completion of the second stage of training. Successful trainees shall be deemed to be suitable for the performance of the duties of the judiciary to be entrusted to them. The main task of the National School of Judiciary is the continuing training of active judiciary officials, aimed at enriching their knowledge and continuing to inform them on matters related to the conduct of their judicial work with regular and extraordinary training programmes. The President of the Republic, Katerina Sacellaropoulou, has stated: "It is necessary to modernise the arrangements for the training and training of judges. The courts and judges must coordinate with their time and requirements.' Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of severe transition justice cannot remain committed to the perception of obtaining from judges experience and special knowledge over time and the trial of specific cases alone. The minimum number of training programmes is in line with the bill in one year and their completion is over four years and not beyond eight. Four training courses are set up in these programmes. At the end of each compulsory training programme to all those who participated in the working groups and completed the questionnaire referred to in Article 43, which assesses the seminar, a certificate of follow-up shall be issued which shall be placed in their service file. In our time, when everything is changing very rapidly, the continuing training of judges is now necessary. I can assure you that it will also be sought by them. Besides, their timing of training courses is one day a year and for four years. This bill regulates everything concerning the operation of the school in full clarity and detail. Modernizes and improves the functioning of the National Court School. It establishes the choice and training of candidate judicial officers in the most imprecise and practicable way. It shall form the framework for the maximum improvement of the level of judicial officers. It selects the school's management bodies in the most transparent and objective way. It inspires confidence in the impreciseness of candidate judicial officers who wish to participate in the competition. The best and most appropriate ones are chosen. It inspires respect and confidence in citizens towards the judiciary and its decisions. It strengthens justice, which our Constitution has made it one of the three independent and equal functions of our President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. It creates the preconditions for a more independent, free and with a high prestige of justice, which all parties and citizens must respect, honor and support. The vote in favour of this bill is practical support for young people, but also for the entire judiciary. Our unanimity today will send a strong and hopeful message to the Greek people, in whose name the rulings of our courts are extradited. With this bill, although it is the foundation stone to upgrade the judiciary, not all problems will be solved. The efforts so far made by the Government and the Ministry of Justice are great and in the right direction. They're sure to follow more bills. The organisation and proper functioning of the courts are strengthened every day and should continue to be strengthened by appropriate staff, judicial officers and media. We all have to show, in terms of justice, respect, common effort, dialogue, convergence of views. It will be the best service we have offered to upgrade its quality and time of award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u65	Good, Mr. Lambropoulou. The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today called on to discuss in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Justice on 'Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Justice', a bill which should unite all the wings of this House, as it concerns a very important institution, the value of which for the democratic constitution and the functioning of the rule of law is widely recognised. But with the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and despite our efforts by the first committee to which this bill has already been discussed and worked out, objections and disagreements arise, both on our part and on the part of the most involved scientific bodies. Since its establishment in 1994, the National School of Judiciary has, as an unstoppable task, been training non-discriminatory and highly qualified judges, who will act with a sense of responsibility within the framework of a European rule of law. With this in mind, a legislative initiative aimed at updating the school's operating framework is absolutely legitimate and desirable. However, deepening the contents of the bill requires answers to questions such as: What are the possible changes being made? And are these changes planned to safeguard the principles of operation of the National School of Judiciary, or to reflect other methods and purposes? Are they formulated with respect to the principle of separation of powers or through them, is judicial authority working? Do they preserve the necessary autonomy of the officials of Themidas or cultivate a favourable environment for those who may wish to heterodise them? They contribute to the effective training of judges or reproduce a sterile and obsolete logic in the education process. These questions have been summarised not only by our own concerns, ladies and gentlemen, but, as has been demonstrated in the process of hearing the bodies, similar objections are also reflected in the official positions of judicial associations. In fact, when we dared to pass on to the parliamentary debate the concerns of scientific bodies, the Minister accused us of being cowarded with artifacts, as if the points made by judges and prosecutors were not subject to scientific criteria and as if we should not be operating in this Chamber as National Delegations, but as self-confidential and self-determined officials. Nevertheless, before I turn to our individual objections, I must stress that we welcome the changes to Articles 31 and 40, which are in line with what we have tabled and highlights the previous period. They are in line with our proposals. We recognise that these changes are a positive development, but we would expect other corrections, in our view, to be equally necessary. On the basis of Article 19 and the replacement of the subject of general education with that of general legal education in the Directorate-General of Administrative Justice, the Directorate-General of Political and Criminal Justice and the Directorate-General for Peace, but also the Directorate-General for Public Prosecutors, we consider that the absence of strategic planning and philosophy is clearly felt. What did the 1994 report on the establishment of the school highlight? I would remind you: "The introduction to it is made after successful participation in a competition aimed at investigating the legal knowledge of candidates, but also of their general spiritual culture." At the same time, he pointed out: "Training includes subjects of legal science, but also material useful for the successful conduct of judicial work, such as sociology, psychology, economics and so on." In other words, what the legislator understood in 1994 and shared in political directions the relevant Ministry, in 2021, is not even able to understand them, that in the 21st century, access to information is a relatively easy process. However, it is a matter of cultivating a critical spirit, a detailed background and a wider knowledge. Therefore, while in the present Article 20 of the 1994 report, it is rightly stated that there is a need to possess a wide range of knowledge, in addition to close legal training. Under Article 19, the course of general education is replaced by that of general legal education. It is right to ask: Where is the importance of a sterile, unsubstantiated and unsubstantiated reminder of judgments, decisions, for example, of the Council of State, when a judiciary will otherwise be removed from social, economic, technological or even geopolitical processes and developments in at least the changes being made? As now reflected in Article 19, it is clear that this is not a development or an update. They are not even a stagnation sample. It is a very clear regression to the reasoning which should govern the educational process at the time of admission and attendance at the National School of Judiciary. The absence of vision and the impossibility of setting a priority framework is also apparent through Article 19, which prerequisites for a successful examination of the foreign language, before even evaluating legal objects. In particular, place the examination of the language in the first stage, the successful completion of which is a prerequisite for the candidate to proceed. So I encode and analyse your logic. Candidate Judges do not need the wider knowledge. They must be taught exclusively in law, but before that, during their introductory examinations, they are obliged to be in a foreign language. Obviously they must know foreign languages, but answer us, Minister, please: Does anyone in this Chamber believe that a excellent legal person cannot achieve this at a later stage? Is it a fair and objective assessment to reject, otherwise, an excellent lawyer, who has obviously transferred to learning a foreign language for the next time stage of his education? And since we are talking about the introduction of an objective assessment system, I could not omit the provisions of Article 20 for the definition of a weight factor of 30% in the oral examination of 15% previously. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that we agree with an oral interview, but a large number of questions arise as to the reliability of this procedure, when it is measured to such an extent that it alters the result of the written examination. Obviously, there is a question of transparency. And I am referring not only to voluntary alteration of the procedure, but to its very nature, which is by definition subjective and unsatisfactory. It is a timely call for the creation of an objective and imprecise framework of oral examinations, and as long as this is not possible, both governments choose to maintain the relevant gravity factors of oral examinations, for reasons of obvious transparency and equivalence. It seems, however, that the Ministry of Justice is not concerned with the problem of the possibility of quantifying, otherwise, quality data, a problem on which dozens of scientific articles are published every year worldwide. The oral examination shall be assisted, but only the written examination during which even the names of the persons examined contribute to the consolidation of democracy. I stress all this, of course, on condition that our common commitment and aim is to train non-discriminatory and highly qualified officials, with the ultimate risk of speeding up the administration of justice, to which you have been so guilty from time to time. I could not fail to point out again that your actions are in complete contradiction with your words, since in the debate in the committees the words 'accelerating the administration of justice' have often been heard by government officials. I will bring in a tangible and characteristic example of how you mean speeding up justice. It's that of the Atalant Peace Court. All three permanent judicial officers were retired this year. You did not provide for these to be replaced, although you know - it was retirement - and in the end, as a solution, you propose the secondment of two officials from the Lamia Court, which is already underage. That's what I think is the ultimate state in all its majesty! This, rather, is your planning to speed up the work of giving justice. So you believe that the sense of law will be established for the citizens, and that is the future of the judiciary of the Greek region. In any case, you were disturbed at the third meeting of the committee, on the subject of this bill, when we ruined your feasting climate for the electronic bottle. I repeat that the technical notes for the electronic board in real time had been completed and submitted as early as December 2018. You are therefore celebrating the introduction of the first pilot run after just three years, and this is what you are doing, while the development of electronic justice is in the last year and a half more pressing because of the distance and protection measures taken against the coronary. Your policy is full of contradictions and has been inconsistent, which also emerges through this draft law on the National School of Judiciary Officers, which is the front of safeguarding the impartiality of justice, an institution that must also be independent of the Constitution and should be governed primarily by the principle of transparency. Unfortunately, as we have analysed on the basis of Article 20 of the bill under discussion, you are creating a framework that is favourable for intervention from outside in the evaluation process and for judges. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u67	Me too, Mr. Saraciotis. Please close the electronic record system. Mrs Konstantina Giannakopoulou has the floor on the part of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are called upon to discuss today in the plenary of this House is of particular importance, as it does not simply amend but replaces the current law on the National School of Judiciary. From a position of principle, our party could never be opposed to modernising the functioning of such an important educational structure as the National School of Judiciary. I would therefore like to make it clear from the outset in my speech, as I did in the committee responsible, that our positive attitude and attitude to the draft law and its legality. However, this positive attitude, Minister, does not prevent us, but on the contrary, obliges us to stand critically against any unorthodoxness or failure contained in the draft law. We have heard and evaluated the reactions that have developed in the public debate and of course have placed particular emphasis on the hearing of the bodies, in particular the judiciary associations, but also the other representatives of the legal community, including the lawyers. And, of course, we have come to the comments we have made in committee and will be presenting today in plenary. I have to say that I am sincerely pleased and wish to say my satisfaction, Minister, because you seem to have heard, heard the remarks made by both the institutions and the counter-population and made the necessary changes and amendments to this draft law. After all, we in the Change Movement, Mr Minister, so we understand Opposition with documentation, with constant dialogue with society and its institutions and with the expression of sober, but clear and clear political speech. We do not go too far on complaints from operators or lobbyists, but we evaluate them and obviously adopt them to the extent that we agree with their point of view. This, in our view, is the institutional consistent attitude of counter-population, without crowns and slogans, but with a useful presence that promotes political dialogue and the quality of our legislation. So we will continue, respecting Parliament and respecting the mandate that we have received from the citizens who trust us. The National School of Judges has a long tradition in the Greek legal system. Its main purpose is to train and train judges and prosecutors who run the Greek judicial system. But it doesn't run out there. On the other hand, the mission of the Judiciary School must be broader social. Through their training, judges and prosecutors become acquainted with their role, with their state mission and the specificities of their function. The very operation of the school, in other words, must go to the training of judges of prestige with an independent opinion and with a critical capacity, judges capable of meeting the demands of our society. Despite its weaknesses, it is clear that the Judiciary was a successful reform section. The concept of judicial education and, of course, the training of judges has also been introduced in Greece. Today, judicial education is an extremely sensitive issue, you will allow me to tell you. He is directly related to the human factor of awarding to justice, to the judiciary with his cognitive background, his functionality, with his own personality. Obviously in the field of the education of judges the scope for improvement is still great. Further specialisation, practical training, convergence with international developments. These are only some of today's and modern demands. The training and training of judges must be central to the upgrading of our judicial system. It combines harmoniously with the other reform steps in administration, evaluation, planning, and the technological modernisation of courts. Besides, Minister, I think that the optimal training of Greek judges is the greatest guarantee in the administration of justice, guaranteeing that we will have modern judges with scientific recognition and with strong institutional status. The Change Movement believes in the need for the National School of Judges to operate in a worthwhile and efficient manner, with the best educational staff and with the best curriculum of studying for the new judges and for the new prosecutors, the officials who will be invited in the coming years to safeguard the very prestige of Greek justice, to guarantee that the rule of law is functioning and respected by all. That is at first sight, Minister. By speeding up some of the provisions in which the debate was focused in committee, in addition to the many positive elements contained in the bill and which we recognised, for example, the provision of a special direction of peacekeepers or judges of the Council of State and of the Court of Auditors, I would like to make a few comments. I repeat from a point of view that we are in no way opposed to the need for permanent training of judges. We believe that training is crucial for the completion of the individuality of the judge and for his continuous improvement at the legal level, but also in international comparative data. Therefore, obviously, we agree with the need for judges and prosecutors to attend training seminars. But we have also told you in the committees - and I am glad that you have accepted this - that this training, even with compulsory seminars, should not be confused with the evaluation, that is to say, it should not be covered in an evaluation, and indeed outside the inspection and evaluation system, as laid down by the Code of Procedure and the status of judges. So, as far as the system of review, inspection and evaluation is concerned, we are telling you that you need to see it by means of a special law and that there is a very long debate with the judiciary. It's something you need to see and see carefully. Until then we must be very careful and avoid any legislative experiments. And, of course, the state in the spirit of the Constitution must maintain the judicial character of the inspection. It is an element of independence of justice, which must and must be safeguarded. We, Minister, are here and we will expect to participate in the consultation of a draft reform of the evaluation, as we did in the 2019 Constitutional Review, when we proposed the reform of the Supreme Judicial Council. We will therefore have our own proposals and we will insist on the need for an open dialogue with the judiciary. We are therefore in favour of clean solutions. In our view, the judge's assessment cannot depend, nor of course, on seminars and knowledge tests. The assessment includes much more than that. He has to consider whether the judge performs his duties conscientiously, with good decisions, which are made in reasonable time, and the judicial work is also assessed not only on the basis of knowledge - yes, they are important too - but, above all, on the performance of the judicial work on the part of the judge. Moving on to Article 31, the proposed adjustment to the original plan was problematic - you have, however, changed it and we are pleased about that - regarding the evaluation of trainees with predetermined rates of excellence. We told you there couldn't be any pre-calibration rates. You're aware of it. After all, I think the Scientific Service of the House has done a very important job and very serious comments on this provision. It is important that you withdrew this matter. But we insist, Minister, that it is very problematic and that the provision in Article 20(4) for the weight factor for written and oral examinations should be corrected. The increase in the rate to 30% in orals does not seem and is not justified and also creates reasonable questions. We will therefore insist, Minister - and we want you to see it - that we believe that 20% would be enough as a factor of gravity for the orals, where it would ensure the integrity of the whole contest. We believe that only in this way can the validity of the competition be protected from any shadows and suspicions about the privileged treatment of candidates. Also, in Article 19 we will insist that we say that we cannot understand why this whole lead is given in the examination of foreign language at the first stage of the introductory examinations. Why should this priority be given, firstly, to examination in foreign languages and then everything else? In our view it is excessive to introduce this as a prerequisite for a candidate to proceed with the written examinations. For us it is better - and this is our proposal - to carry out a serious examination of a foreign language, with claims and a distinctive score after legal courses. Finally, we are pleased that you have heard us, you have heard the remarks which we told the committee about the possibility of trainees being able to practice in the courts of Thessaloniki beyond Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u69	Only in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u70	I watched it. I've been following your explanation. We're accepting it. We accept it. We think it's justifiable. It is important that you have accepted it. We will continue to tell you that it would be important and we ask you to see the possibility of meeting the request for an increase in the student's earnings to 70% of the student's wages in the first instance with data, in particular, the costs incurred by students who do not come from Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u71	Well, you tried.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u72	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u73	Yeah. Is there an evaluation sheet? Is he in the file? Is this a qualification for the further course and development of the court? No, Minister, it's not. On the other hand, in the right direction is foreign language. Of course, they must know a foreign language which is now beginning their term of office. There are the training seminars, there are seminars abroad. All laws coming out of the courts are mostly written in English. That makes sense. And I don't understand why such a fuss is going on. But it had to be the matter, Minister. And because I don't see anyone and we've all shut it down, I'd like to say that it's not us. The Greek solution, Minister, said so during the meetings. Look! What happened recently in the Council of State against a supreme judge should not have come to the point of happening. Because it had to be during the evaluation - if there was an assessment, Minister - that we have understood, that we have seen whether or not a judge and not just - all the professions are doing this - it has made a mistake. He is not forgiven the mistake and passion of the judge because he is in court and is responsible for people's lives. You know, disembarking around the world, to the poor, to the ordinary citizen is justice. He's going to the judge. So when a judge has been passionate for years - passions with 'or' - which his colleagues know too - but no one is talking about, it has led us to this point that we have arrived, that justice has been humiliated, because we have not seen, we have not assessed, we have not decided that we must move forward with the excellent and those who make mistakes - even if they were party to us - to end them. That's what happened. If you see the testimony of this judge, your hair will rise! I've been looking for kids, looking for young people. That's his statement. They sent me and I have her in my hands, Minister, but I don't want to testify. It's unbelievable these things that happen to give a judge of drugs! No one knew him? The President of the Republic, Mrs Sakellaropoulou, with whom were years together in the I part of the Council of State, Mr Randos, who is the Advocate General in Europe, knew nothing? Nobody knew anything? Everyone knew and nobody decided to talk. That is why I say, Minister, that we need to be tough, ruthless and evaluate each day and first of all the pilots. Do you know we're rated daily, every week, every month, every year? They're coming from abroad and we're being evaluated. Only then will we be able to move forward. There are judges who are responsible for the deaths of many citizens, particularly in civil law, which I say, for the sake of knowledge. It's what they make sometimes. Of course, all the judges are exquisite and laborable. However, it is the state that is to blame, because we have not given them the necessary resources to be able to do their job. They work twenty-four hours a day! 90%, the whole of the judges are people who fight and do not have an assistant! They do not have what we should have given them, such as building infrastructures and courts, and we left them to their fate. Go see what is happening now in the winter with the COVID, where the windows are open, and as a result the judge and the prosecutor sitting with the hours at the seat will break. Where are we going? National School of Justice, therefore, perfectly structured, organized, productive school, with excellent teachers, with seminars, with real evaluation, so that we can make serious, honest people. The natural judge is the one who judges on the basis of his law and conscience. If he is not consciously serious, right, the decision will not be right. And this poor man, the poor man, who can't afford to go to the big law offices and give thousands of euros will go to jail. Once an interrogator - because I have been through several times since the thresholds - had said to me: 'Mr Mylonakis, I see that you are right. But if I were another judge, another interrogator along with one prosecutor, you could be in prison right now." And one day in prison for a man innocent is the equivalent of a lifetime, Ministers. You know that very well. I have to tell you that for the National School of Judges, which is the incubator of the mediterranean judges who would award the law to society, the Greek Solution is perpendicular to everything that is not serious, is not counted, is not qualified and is clipboard. We have told you since the first time about how to assess it, that 75% - 25% that you are now coming to legislate is very much on the oral subject. Mr President, we have made the following proposal and we will now be doing it in plenary. We could qualify, where there will be modulations, degrees, postgraduate degrees. Instead of the sound oral examination to determine whether the other is a good orator, if he is smart, if he is quick to think, we could set other criteria, which will make the system even more remarkable. I will give you an example which we have read, and you know that, but I shall mention it in any case. An invader, one who gave tests, that is, a candidate, took a score on the writings "10,4" with an excellent "15". He was twenty-second in the sixteen, so he was out. We now come to the orals and take '14.5' with an excellent '15' and suddenly rises twenty places up. Now tell me, Minister, what will each one who has read, laboured, is excellent. What's he gonna think from inside? And he happens to be the son of Mylonakis, who is a great judge, who is Minister! What will each one think? So let's close the doors and windows at last! Let us set 90% in the written, 10% in the oral, and for molecules other qualifications, other degrees more specific. That's what we could do. You didn't. Also, it's what I told you. You have not dared to go to the review and the evaluation sheet, which will enter into the case file of each court at regular intervals, to be a guide to promote higher and higher grades. Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the government - and you know that very well, Minister - is not a field for party service and rhetoric. Yeah, you'll tell me that's not there. Say it here. Did you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u74	I've said that many times myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u75	All right, you've said it yourself. But don't tell me it doesn't exist. It can be done. And can I tell you something else, Minister? What has recently been a typical phenomenon, leaving a judge from a top position and occupying the position of the President of the Republic is wrong. What will the citizens think? That Mrs Sacellaropoulou, who left the Council of State, as President of the Council of State, has turned to the supreme state of mercy of Mr Mitsotakis, has nothing to do with the Government? Any connections? On the part of SYRIZA, which was found at the Prime Minister's office and then went to the office of Prime Minister Tsipras, does it not have anything to do with this? So why not think of the ordinary Greek citizen "they're making fun of me? What are they doing over there? Among them they make, have justice at the highest level and do whatever they want, pass whatever they want." I will tell you another issue, which the judges must see, and I tell the trade union judges too. Because I told you that the Greek Solution does not need to be voted on in such matters. The contribution of solidarity, Minister. I'm saying that because we also have a judge here. Solidarity pays the judges, pays the pensioners. Why didn't the judges say to stop? And the private sector is not paying the workers, it is the public's solidarity contribution. But the judges are not saying that the solidarity levy must be stopped by the retired, the poor. Oh, no. They're talking about themselves. No, we're not gonna talk about ourselves. The judge talks about the whole society. That's the judge, we don't want to. That's right, Minister. It's hard to say what we're talking about, but the Greek Solution has gone through for the hard stuff. And we told you again that we would be close to the government, we would support the bills that we need, because they are for the good of Greek society, but we will be across the street when we see that something is going on, but it is not what the Greek society wants. We told you again - to finish - that this bill has made a lot of leaps. But you are forcing us on the two issues which I have told you to vote on in this bill. To conclude, Mr President, I shall refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Education. The representative of the Communist Party of Greece said so. Primary school is compulsory, primary school, as referred to in Article 3, and high school, since the student has not exceeded the sixteenth year. Nobody says no to this thing. This law, this article was repealed in 2017. He's coming back now. Why now? Because we have COVID? That's what people say, that's what people will think. Why would Timing be this? That's the first. Secondly, Mrs Kerameau brings this article. The father and mother are arrested, and the first child is punished for two years on parole, in the second with prison, in the third with prison. He performs the sentence, he can't be always with inhibitions. And where are the kids going? The three kids where they're staying? On the way? Are there social structures, Mr. Brutsi? Where will the kids stay if they arrest you and your wife? Will you say: well, Mr. Mylonakis, will I not send the school children? There are situations - and you know it very well and especially in the province - that people may not have to send or be away from school.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u76	There aren't any of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u77	No, there's those too. There are the Roma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u78	That's where you think they shouldn't go to school?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u79	There's Roma too, I say. The kids have to go to school. That's what we're saying. But you will arrest the Roma, will you arrest the father? Go on. Most kids don't go to school.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u80	It's a matter of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u81	So go arrest the parents now, I'm waiting. After that law that you're going to pass, go arrest the parents. We wait from tomorrow to see how many Roma children don't go to school, get the parents all arrested. Go on. Are you kidding us, Minister? Are we making fun of ourselves here? You bring them to a moment where COVID exists and you go through what you want, without thinking where the social structures are to get the kids in. So don't give me that. These are things that Greek society should not even see, because it is too upset and we will see in the elections. The Greek Solution from the first moment, until now and while it is in the House, it will make a serious opposition. You don't want to, you'll hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u82	We are also grateful to Mr Mylonakis and we are completing the position of the rapporteurs and special farmers with the special buyer of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in plenary on the National School of Judiciary has encountered several reactions, the truth is, in consultation and in hearing the bodies. The great debate, of course, has taken place on the assessment of the meaning, necessity, of which no one disputes. What we disagreed at the outset is the methodology, the way in which it was attempted by the Ministry to structure itself, to organise this assessment, because it provided for the multiplier system, which, as I said in committee, has no value, because legal issues are of many interpretations, many answers, often contradicting them. It is not, that is to say, as if we were to give the signals to get the driver's licence or, in addition, to legal issues, there is an editorial answer. Of course, there has been a strong reaction in the incorporation of the certificate into the service file. Very well, of course, Minister, you have replaced this provision and brought about a legislative improvement in relation to the evaluation form. However, the truth is that both these reactions and the fact that the European judges came and conquered the Ministry with a lot of hard criticism, all this could be avoided. It could have been avoided if the Ministry had listened earlier to what they had announced, denounced the various associations, and we would not have reached the point of having suffered such a soot, which, you will allow me to say, is causing an international outcry. And I say this because, perhaps here, you should draw your ears to those bodies with whom this body, the evaluators of Justice Scoreboard, spoke to. So I ask as a question. Who are those who spoke to those who did not come as paratroopers? Have some debates taken precedence over how many days, how many conferences, how many round banks and every time they are organized here in Greece? The question is: Did the service actors who have spoken with this body, with these assessors, provide them with a list of the countless, truly, seminars, from the conferences, from the round tables that are done every three and a little, by very reliable bodies, which are regularly attended by judges and prosecutors? I say this because it is really a pity, it is also a pity for the Ministry, it is a pity for Greece to come out of an image that does not really respond. And it does not respond to the reality, because, as I have said, such training seminars take place every few minutes and a little while. Already after the adoption of amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure, five days later, a relevant seminar was held at the court of appeal, attended by many judges and prosecutors. We also have legal magazines, we have legal schools themselves, which organise such conferences with the respective monitoring certificates. The National Public Administration Centre is very often running such programs, especially for judiciary officials, the National School of Judiciary. So we need to be a little more careful and with regard to the information the Ministry has from the relevant players. The relevant service actors who have informed the assessors next time have a fuller information so that the information of these assessors is accurate and does not expose the country in relation to the picture, in terms of the seminars and the training of judges. You have also rightly withdrawn the quotas in the rating of the trainees. It was a choice that had no sense of reason and tied the hands of the trainers themselves. However, I regret that some other points remain problematic, some other provisions. I am sorry to say that I have found in the committee that, while there are problematic points which raise practical issues concerning the introductory competition of the National School of Justice and these issues affect the future of many people who want to be introduced, I have not heard many colleagues deal with these issues, the real future of the school. Because, we're talking about evaluations, we're talking about training seminars. However, what is the point of all these procedures, if, in the end, you are not chosen by the bill you bring, if the government does not choose, with the respective decisions, to promote the most worthy students. So why am I saying this? Because, referring to the age limit of forty years from the forty-five years, which goes down to the National School of Judiciary, it is a real pity that we deprive the judiciary of very worthy lawyers, forty-two, forty-five, forty-five and fifty-year-olds, who have a number of cases. They do not simply have theoretical training, which is often limited by a younger legal graduate. In the twenty-eight years, for example, which is the lower limit - all right, at this age, unless it was normally over in four years, he finished his postgraduate very quickly, though, in the twenty-eight years, he usually has finished a master's degree and has taken the leave - he does not have the experience he needs, in order to be able to deal seriously, practically, with a case and his judiciary crisis stemming from not his theoretical background but from the practice of law. Here we have a lot of convictions about violation of Article 5 of the Constitution, about the free development of personality, precisely because of age limits which are set and due to very unfavourable discrimination on the grounds of age. So the age limit is problematic, and I am saying this, because we have many people who have given so much money, have spent too many hours and years of study, and it is a pity, at this time, that you exclude them by reducing the age limit. So forty is extremely low, as is the twenty-eight-eight-year limit. It should normally be the judge to go to the seat, the limit being thirty-five to fifty. This is the limit where it has the required maturity, the required social perception and flexibility, but also experience, above all, to judge in person. Now, let's go to the famous 70% - 30%. I also said to the committee that it is not up to six, seven oral questions, which are in purely legal matters, to judge the individuality of the judge. For God's sake! That just doesn't work. Neither can his social perception be judged either. You told us that 15% or 20% in orals would not have the importance of these tests. I would therefore remind you that oral examinations are not the same for all the candidates, such as the written ones, questions are differentiated into orals. So it is for granted that there is no impartiality and that some are wronged with more difficult and completely invalid questions. Secondly, with 70% - 30% we had people who were in one-digit ranking - and third and fourth and eighth, I will say - suddenly the orals come and sixty, seventy places below and are excluded. And there then begins the mushroom - the reasonable mushroom, because smoke without fire does not usually exist - that some with "push" succeeded in exams, acquaintances, plugs and so forth. I would like to mention, since the purpose of this bill is to reform, to say it, and the framework for the introduction of students into this school, but also, therefore, to upgrade the quality of justice itself, to problems in relation to the inadequacy and quality of justice and the speed of administration of justice, because there is much to do. This, of course, did not start with the present government. It's a chronic problem. She's a chronic pathogen. The problems of the rule of law also have a great impact on the country's economic development, because no investor, as we know, will come, when there is legal uncertainty, to invest in a country that does not operate the rule of law. It also contributes, of course, to the general social life of citizens, when citizens' confidence in the effectiveness and validity of justice itself has been shaken. I would like to mention the very correct remarks and words of a virtue, Mr Leandros Rakinzis, who points out the problems, making very good proposals, which I would like to take into account, Minister. I think it is worth taking them into account, because it poses practical problems, since we are talking about evaluation and, more generally, about the training and training of judges. First of all, it says that a very important factor in the good functioning of justice is the attitude of judges, which must be adapted to modern times, so the attitude of judges must be changed by soft nails, so that they can perform their duties with the highest dignity and highest evaluation, in a system of evaluation and merit. It says something practical, very important, in my opinion, that the great school at one time for the training of young judges - and I would like you to pay attention to it, because I think it is a practical issue - was the conferences of multi-faceted judicial formations. These conferences lasted for whole days, there was very great development of real and legal claims, confrontation of arguments, assessment of evidence. And so the younger judges were addicted to the judiciary and the older ones gave their lights to the younger ones. So they were addicted to both the thought and the moral and the behavior of the judges. That's how a judge is trained. Unfortunately, the compositions of the multitude of court formations have now been limited. That's wrong. Judges shall be trained in accordance with the practice of the trial. The seminars are fine, but they're theoretical. The Areopagite also says that no institution can function without evaluation. But in what process? Inspection. We are talking about evaluation, when we have an inspection that takes place once a year, inspection and disciplinary sanctions. That is to say once a year, the highest judge will have to oversee and assess five hundred judges in his region. That's too small. That is once a year. It's wrong as a prediction. It does not make it possible to draw up an evaluation report for once a year. Therefore, the system of judges' inspection and, of course, disciplinary sanctions must be re-established when we have phenomena and mistrials and phenomena of late justice, whichever delays the veto. Of course, we must take into account the volume of cases a judge has, that they have a large volume to deal with, that there may not be a levelling-up, that there is no number of judges required. But when this delay is inexorable, then there must be disciplinary sanctions. So it says Mr Rakintzis that it would be more objective to assess whether the supreme court, when seizing a decision of the senior court, the lower court, does not simply take a decision, does not exercise its judiciary, but assesses the judge as well. At the time of the decision, the lower judge should also be assessed. This, of course, requires a constitutional review. Other problems of justice: by abolishing certain primary courts, we are functionally delaying the trial of criminal cases, not only as regards the determination of court cases, but also as regards deferrals, the successive deferrals given due to an expiry of a time limit of 9.00' - 15.00' and transported, constant cases are being postponed, so this also hampers the immediateity that has to exist in the case. All this should be considered, then, on the part of the Ministry. The computerization of services is also lagging behind tragically and, of course, the judicial officers are far less than the judges themselves. I shall therefore conclude, Mr President, by a legal aid which is supposed to be granted to citizens as an aid for the protection of phenomena. And I am talking about the action for wrongdoing, which is provided for in the Constitution in Article 99, is also provided for in Law 693/1977. Unfortunately, this is a provision which has become inactive in substance, because for the vast majority of these actions are rejected, i.e. they are civil actions against judicial officers. On the one hand, these cases, which are already being tried by judges, by the supreme special court, are being rejected in the vast majority. On the other hand, the law has set a suffocating period of six months from the publication of the irrevocable judgment and it is not time for the plaintiff to collect the evidence, to find a lawyer, to collect the money to pay the lawyer, when the corresponding deadline for the judicial officer, in accordance with Article 937 of the Civil Code, is nine times greater, i.e. five years. It is a provision that needs to be amended. Of course, it takes a great deal of study on composition and on who can judge such actions. However, I fear - and I am afraid - that because we are talking about evaluation, training and so on, all this is a theoretical debate, when there are provisions that are extremely problematic and when there are no mechanisms which are essential to protect citizens from the phenomena of misconduct, veto and delay in the administration of justice. I urge you, Ministers, to consider seriously what I have put in mind, what I have actually put forward in the proposals made by the judges themselves. There should be a debate with the judicial officers themselves, with lawyers, in order to study the practical problems facing justice. So I think that we will truly shape our justice and ensure a true rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. The floor will now be taken, after the steps are taken sanitaryly, by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos. Immediately afterwards, for reasons that the Bureau estimates the reason for the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Scandalidis. I should like to inform you that a total of nine Members have been registered, so there will be room for rotation of the other Members of Parliament, since the number of Members registered is the one I have mentioned. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Aristophane's joy is today's bill. If he lived, Mr Chiara - I guess Mr Chiara will come, I properly appreciate him anyway as a man - he would write a beautiful comedy at this stage. In the country of unreserved ones, they speak of justice. I wonder, are we a serious country so that the rulers can establish the fighter and talk about justice today? And I will explain to you in very simple terms what justice means and how this supreme concept of man, which is the refuge, the last refuge of the citizen, justice and the judges, could be understood. The problem in the Hellenic Republic of Postpopulation and after 1974 is the continuous legislation, is the continuing involvement of the government in ruptured, service and continuous legislation. He said: "More laws, less justice." That's exactly what the Transmigration did. That's exactly what New Democracy, KINAL - PASOK - I don't know what they're called - and SYRIZA. A lot of laws, no justice. That's why there's lawlessness at all levels. Of course I can tell the Minister, as Gandis says, "You'll find justice in the other world. In this life we have only laws." This is the reality that we live, a reality that you probably don't see out in your environment. Get out to the citizen and listen to what he says, there's no justice. They're disappointed, not because there are no judges, no. Because the plurality and the loopholes you leave every time, serving intertwined, few-governed, guilded, leave gaps in justice. Of course my rhetoric question is "Is it right for the Minister for Justice to decide every six months?" It's easy to answer: No. This government, which you think is reformist, should seriously discuss with the rest of the parties, put forward proposals from everyone and make a very smart bill so that we can keep it for another twenty years as a compass for justice. You don't. I won't get into what judges and prosecutors are talking about. I'm against trade unions in certain agencies. I have said so many times and the Greek Solution is clear: the judge, the military officer, must be well paid, so that they do not have to make trade unions. It's over and out. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have really failed at all levels. A success I can bring to the government, and that is the control of the media. This is where you condemned a triumphant festive! You control all the media, in a stubborn way, in a disgraceful way, because that is not justice and democracy. You know what Vismark said, which you all have to read about a little or a little bit. So he said that a great man should be distinguished from three very important points, monumental planning, human execution and modesty in success. Here we have three different things: you have no design, you manage orders - so execute - in Brussels and you are on your way to your failures. I'll give an example. Greece: the third to the strictest measures in relation to the coronary. We're talking about pigeons. It's all the bodies I've investigated. I have it in front of me here, World Health Organization. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Tuesday in the world, Greece in the strictest measures. Yet even now people die every day. With the most restrictive measures, it says the World Health Organisation and the measurements which are being made in any case, imposed on citizens. What's the second country? The copy of Mr. Mitsotakis, his adorable Germany. Half for Greece Germany is second and then we third. I will reply to Mr Ioannides' statements, and I am going to answer you with something that you have been diligently hiding all the time. And I am ashamed that instead of hiding in the undergrounds of Piraeus, Mrs. Pagonis, Mr. Vassilikopoulou and all those who say otherwise a week, but next week, they expose you, but they do not expose you, but they cover you, but Ioannides leaves you and says: "Third worst country in the world in the face of viruses Greece, more deaths and stricter restrictive measures in Europe. The Fiji Islands take us worldwide and one more. In the week that passed, we are the twelfth among two hundred lands in the dead. Someone must ask - says Professor Ioannides, and not the professor of New Democracy, these ten scientists - sincerely apologise before asking the population to comply in more metres. Otherwise he loses his credibility.’ Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you lost it and I will now prove it to you beyond Ioannides. This morning, Mr. Giannakos reported to your own radio station that you hold forty-seven intensive treatment units for VIP persons. Yes or no? Giannacos is not an accidental person. He said the government has forty-seven IDs for VIP faces! What are the other Greeks? The farmer, the retired man, the hired man, die? And the parliamentary representative has not answered yet. None of you answer. Is this true or isn't it? Forty-seven VIP ICU! What we've been through here! Human mental dignity and life are the same for everyone. Do you understand that? Let's go to the second complaint. The daughter of Mr. Rokofylos, the Vice Mayor of Bakoyannis, spoke to you yesterday about what the Greek Solution - and let some on the other side stop riding the issue - said, about a year ago, the lady, before the Archbishop, passed away from a coronary and said: "They gave me monoclonal antibodies and in two days I was a perjuki". We said it first here. You said they didn't exist. How did they give them to the hospitals? Vice Mayor of Athenians. Was there or not there? We talked about it here and you were telling us graphics here. And that's not all. I'll tell the Minister who came now: do you know how, my Minister, cities are lost? You know, Minister? When they can't tell the good guys from the bad guys. And that's not what Antisthesis said. Without worthiness, Minister, in the field of justice, with impunity to bank robbers, doctors, lawyers, to all those who break the country forty years, fifty years, there can be no justice. Impressive to bankers! Impressive for the seashoes! Impressive for the coronary! Evaluation with oral tests. What do you think? What do you think? Do you want to make reforms in justice? Cut the yearbook. Respectfully, through the body of judges, to grow, to rise the country's best judges to have justice. It's over and out. So let's talk about justice. Commission: the 2020 report. What does this fair report say, Minister? Let me tell you the worst. Moderate levels of independence of justice, incomplete framework for the protection of witnesses in the public interest, controversial way of appointment of judges. Greece in the seventeenth place in the European Union and 60th worldwide in the perception of corruption. Aggregated civil and commercial cases in five hundred nine days. Four hundred and seventy-nine took place in 2017. Seventh, 86.3% reduction in productivity in the courts since 2018 compared to 96% in 2017. Administrative courts six hundred days the case in 2018. Bribery, November 2019, amendments to the active bribery offence have been repealed. And you're talking about justice in here? Did you bring a law that changed active bribes parties and you voted for it and you talk to me about justice? Are we serious? When will we make fun of the Greek people? When are you going to mock him? You in the New Democracy, you are! Let me tell you this about the impunity. Didn't you, Minister? For the bankers? Have the bankers ever paid the bad, criminal choices in the sea loans that they gave to each other? And you're telling me about justice? That's what I'm telling you. Here is the report, Minister. I'm sending you to the Ministry by e-mail or if you want me to send it to you so you can see it. International Transparency Report 2019: Second more corrupt country in Europe Greece and the Minister are being hit in New Democracy. A seat before Bulgaria! I'll testify to it in the Minutes and this one. And there are more: Retreat eight positions in the perception of corruption worldwide in a year. Here, too, we are talking about the main option for Mrs Thanos and all that. It does not control the judgments of the Government or the Government of the Courts of Justice or of the Court of Justice, or of the Court of First Instance better.Huh? They're not political decisions, are they, yes or no? I'll prove it to you in a few minutes to see that you're mocking people. In such a bill, the Chamber was to be filled with MPs, representatives of the Greek people, to talk about justice seriously, to do serious work. They are absent as usual and the President of Parliament is disturbed, who I am here every day, and I speak and do me a favor. Hey, he's not doing me a favor! He wants, he doesn't want, he's gonna hear me and his hostage. So, do you want me to tell you the truth? I'll tell you now, Minister. You know, personally, I honor you. Clear things. You all know in here that justice is always controlled by the government. Especially with the yearbook, it promotes those who control and cut the heads of the honors, because they are not likeable or flexible and flexible to the orders they give them. You need proof. So, in the anti-grassroots measures of the government’s choices, what did justice say? For cuts and retrospective pensioners he said 'yes'. What did justice say about investment in resurrected areas, Mrs Sacellaropoulou? He said 'yes'. What did justice say about the memos? He said 'yes'. What did he say about the vaccine's mandatory? He said 'yes'. What did he say about restraining and lockdown? He said "yes" justice. What did he say about the impunity? He said 'yes'. What did he say about death in the Competition Committee? He said 'yes'. So don't tell me about justice. This is called a political decision and enforcement in the S.H.E. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to speak in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the It's over and out. We'll tell the truth here in the Greek people. So place yourselves always your own, controlled. The definition of interlocutory to see today in former prosecutors' seats. Former prosecutors, former judiciary officers, I see them in here. Is that possible? Are you a prosecutor and a judge? He's going to be a retired and you're never gonna get a place again. Why? You're getting out of it. Because, in order to become a MP, a party must have proposed it. So the conspiracy, the debate, took place three years ago. So, for any decision he makes, as a prosecutor, he can have his own, if you like, cracks in the objective choice. The definition of interacting? Let me tell you now. Mrs Sakellaropoulou was the definition of interoperable selection, if you like. Former President of the Court of First Instance, became President of the Court of First Instance and resigned for sexual misconduct. Let me tell you about justice now and I can tell you more. The Coutroman of the PSE. I have a lot to say about him in a while. Former President S.T.E. the appointment of a chairperson of a non-constitutional regulated authority. Former President S.T.E. He became a Member of the State and Vice-President. Former judge became MP and Minister. Former Public Prosecutor became Deputy Minister and Minister. You appoint a retired former president of the S.H.E. the new authority for the Recovery Fund, which is not constitutionally established, in breach of the Constitution. Do you hear what you're doing, because it's yours or yours, the Recovery Fund, the lot of money? I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u86	Who did we put?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u87	Who is it? You'll see. I know what I'm saying. You'll see it in a little while and her name. For the purpose of governmental control of public procurement. That's the story. So you choose people to independent authorities, how flexible, how flexible and how flexible they do dirty work, unfortunately! And the others, the honest, the many prosecutors and judges on the margin. No, that's not justice. This is a party looting of the concept of 'justice', 'accuracy', 'equality', 'equality'. It's over and out. We live in a declining society. I mean it now. His phenomenon of fishing boys Vice President of the S.H.E. How did he see it? No one spoke. Nobody. Socking right away. Drugs together. No one spoke. Lawyers in here so they don't have to bother their shaft. The rest of the politicians covered it up, because the S.H.E. We're afraid of it. If, then, we're afraid of the S.H.E. And the decisions he's going to make, it means something, that you've got your nest dirty and you don't talk. So because the Greek Solution has no grounded nest, it will take you to blood until the end on the path of justice. Name involved: What should the government now do? In all the files of this gentleman for the last ten years, he has checked. Who guarantees me that this gentleman was making and making decisions without any pressure? I will say it otherwise, so that people do not get the pressure wrong without extortion. To expect the citizen of justice and he can be blackmailed. Don't you understand that? Vice President of S.H.E., young people. They checked his house. Three people and not say what the file says. There was no reason, but I don't care about man's face or his choice. I'm interested in the problem of being blackmailed or not by something he's done. And what happened? He quit. Another hypocrisy, Mr. Chiara. I didn't see you complain about it. So that people will not be deceived, why did the Vice-President resign? Nobody says it in here. All scared and cowardly! At least, we have honesty, despite the persecution of the PSE, despite the persecution of the courts, despite the impoverishment of our party, to say what is happening here. He resigned before the start of any criminal and disciplinary proceedings. He will not be convened disciplinaryly, since he has no legal status. Understand? "Corack eye doesn't work," they say. And here we have a government complication with court power raw, clear. I ask the Minister to tell me what country the impunity I mentioned earlier applies. It is not a personal matter, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, of the resignation of your sovereign Constantine Karamanlis. If a judiciary is a drug user, it's none of our business, a lot of people will say. If it has to do with drug trafficking, we're very concerned about it, though. Because that's what we need to ask him, where he found the drugs. I ask: is this a flood, like any worker, unemployed, a street thief? Is that how we deal with it? Cocaine was found in his house, gentlemen, and he wasn't arrested. Now the kid who took two grams of cocaine, the poor guy for his use and buzzing him, put him by the police and eats and punishment at the end, because he had ten grams of cocaine. Does he see that and what does he say? There's no justice. The citizen who has been punished for a fall, for a flood, sees it. There's no justice. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the law, unfortunately, with the tactics of the New Democracy, as Plato said about justice, is nothing but the interest of the mighty. And wherever powerful here the New Democracy, which legislates impunity, legislates impunity. And I mean it. So let's look at other anti-grass court rulings, see how they make political decisions, so that we don't mock the Greek people. At some point we must bail against the Greek people and say to him: We are here to protect your rights, protect your dignity, protect your own existence." They legalized the memoirs, the wind parks in forests - I repeat - the robbery of the banks for the Swiss franc, guys. They seized Greek confessors and said it was legal for those who invested in the Greek state. They've taken over the Swiss franc again by the Greek banks. No one spoke. Legally, it says, justice. They legalized the pension robbery. They only shared retrospectively to themselves the judges. And good they did! Yannis is buying, he's drinking! The absolute, if you want, rot in justice, the absolute decency of the citizen against what is at stake and coming. Because the citizen will need him if anything happens. And I hope there will never be a war with Turkey! He's coming with us to fight with us. He must feel safe for everything that's going on. So the laws, as Solon said, look like the spider's web from ancient times and it's not a random thing. If it falls over something light and impossible, it restrains it. If it's something bigger, too big, like New Democracy, like KINAL, like SYRIZA, like the few-farmers, like the bankers, like the big doctors, not only take the net for tampering, but destroy the spider's very trap. Of course, I'll say it so people can figure it out. Of course we're all equal to the law. It is forbidden - and I will say directly - for the Greek Solution to both the rich and the poor to sleep under bridges, begging and steal bread to live, whether you are poor or rich. This must be the legislator, these must be the laws. And now we're going to the other way, Mr. Chiara, good. Who do you choose? PSE: Who chose them? Who put them there. On a recommendation from the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Koutromanos, as his name is, your forgiveness. Fortunately, you are the exact opposite of him! Really, I'm saying it, as a human now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u88	The last period was that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u89	No, I know what I'm saying. The name was introduced by the New Democracy. Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u90	It's not happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u91	That name was made by Mr Mitsotakis personally. I know what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u92	The previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u93	Look for it a little further, Mr. Chiara, because we couldn't find it. It was four-five then. I know the subject of the PSE, Mr. Chiara. I've paid for it in blood, over a million euros. I don't know Kutromano, do you think? From your village, your short-haired, but fortunately you're not like Koutromano. So we'll tell the truth. We don't float, we don't have any dependencies. The PPE laws are an invention of the governments to legalize their opponents. Evidence of the ERR. ERR people are chosen, ignorant, useless, unpaid - I repeat - slow wages. They say it themselves, I don't say it. The President came here and said: "We can't do our job. We can't check the polls. Atypically the law has been abolished.' He was a judge and came and told you here in Parliament that "the law of polling for control by us has been formally abolished!" And we've got him there instead of the Prime Minister taking him out of his ear and telling him "Get out of here, man, since you say it yourself that you're useless, slow-handed." It is the particular president - I will say it directly - and resentful and obsessed. You want proof? I'll tell you now. She's a little girl. I really like you, little girl. All decisions taken are against the small channels. In large, Mr. Koutromanos bends. For "SCAI", "MEGA", he doesn't talk, he doesn't speak and else he looks. When it comes to small - and this is justice you know - the independent authority imposes administrative sanctions. It's a form of justice. So you left, Mr. Tsiara, a main judge unrelated to television, a great guy, a ignorant man who didn't know when I asked him what "WeTransfer" meant, didn't know what it meant to mean, to decide to have an opinion on television, Mr. Koutromanos. You must all be ashamed of yourself. We must all be ashamed of ourselves. A man of ignorance who pretends to be the god, who understands nothing! Here, then, I will testify to you my personal testimony with proof, Minister. So here I have the fines imposed about 1 million by Mr Koutromanos. He's the one they've imposed. And I'll tell him something as a message: Next November he'll leave there, he'll be dismantled, his term is over. I will find him as a citizen, in a coffee, and I will tell him: it is possible for only one person to make ten complaints within three months for my broadcasts that were not transmitted. Listen, he made a complaint in October, and the show was for February. Is it possible for the PSE to accept this thing? The same man, a SYRIZA man, Mr.Liberakis from Crete, - something he is, a regional consultant, I don't know - I think it's ten complaints! A fine of 1 million and a risk of five hundred jobs, a risk of eighteen channels, a risk of 10 shops being closed, a small industrial plant. To understand the crime of this man who doesn't understand. But to be paid, he knows! Sure! Money's getting it! Well, the chair cedars and the slow payrolls. A guy who reported 2020 denounced something I did in 2015, colleagues of the New Democracy. Mr. Chiara, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u94	I hear you very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u95	This gentleman complains of something I did in 2015. What's he complaining about? That I presented a book of Jesus' manuscripts. In 2015 this was done in a book presentation. I was the one who presented it. It hasn't happened ever since. In 2020, he denounced it. That's when he remembered. And he's taking it from the PSE. And other weird. And now listen: the Prime Minister's statement that they are smugglers, those who entered from Evros - made it publicly on many channels - did not punish the PSE. For my statement that they are smugglers of Evros who fined the PSE 250 thousand. Tell me what justice, Mr. Chiara? What justice? You tell me if this is justice. You chose him. Here people don't know that Islam is religion. I was talking about religions and they were telling me that it is a nation of Islam and they punished me and with 30 thousand euros a fine. To understand who you choose in justice. So his statement is slow - the man said, "I don't work, but I'm paid" - the man who discovered the computer in his seventies - I don't know how much - he doesn't know the basics of television, will control me. The president who fails to keep the polls law, as he himself confessed, who abolished, says, informally the PSE, because he says "we don't control" and instead of pulling him out of the ear - I repeat - and say to him: "Come here. What are you doing?' What can I say? I know! I don't know. I won't tell what the PSE is doing. But I will say: I, as Velopoulos, learned to pay for it. The Greek Solution will pay for it, whatever it is. But I appeal to the Prime Minister. I will ask for a personal meeting with him, because it does not go any further, to raise the subject of the PSE. It avoids diligently giving a solution. We cannot - listen - on the basis of the Greek Solution program that is submitted to the Marios Ice, say that our proposal is the uninhabited islands. It's our opinion. You may disagree. But we are talking about human beings with normal benefits. I'm being punished for that, too. Marios Ice accepted my program and they punish me for hate rhetoric! To understand what authority you gave to very small guys who think they are gods. And I stop here so I don't get you any harder. But I will tell you this: we have also applied to S.H.E. I appeal to the people of the S.H.E., because there are honest judges, to decide the lawful, to decide the right, moral and legal, not to take orders from anyone and change the legal decision concerning the law of channels, businesses. I told you it's very important for me that some people understand that nothing happens. And I will submit to the Minutes once again - and I will ask the Prime Minister for a document - all these canal punishments from a man who does not understand that he deprives the bread of the children of some people, not mine, because I can leave, close my companies and go abroad. I can do it, I'm capable, and that's why I can turn them off. But there are five hundred workers. He doesn't care, he doesn't really care about the gentleman, and I'm annoying. The proof of what I am saying, Mr Chiara, is that the two members who have been incessantly absent from voting are reacting. But it's two. The others are the sidewalk, the group. Not to say gang, I'm a gang. The two who have gone lately can't stand injustice and leave. He's not there in the decisions. What we need more evidence to prove that people are incompetent, are not inadmissible and are, above all, unfair. As he said, Minister, and Aristotle, "it's no different from not applying the laws." The PSE does not apply any law or applies the law as it suits the system. So we are against the system. Here I have our suggestions, Minister. We have tabled our proposals for justice multiplely. We insist that the supreme judges, and also the judges, must control them - without party pressure, without criteria, if you want, party or personal interests to be chosen by the judges themselves. It must be a transparent process. There's no more that darkness. It can't be done. And by closing a message to all Greeks about the police officer who arrested Turkey yesterday: some need to understand that those who go to Skopje, those who go to Bulgaria, those who go to Turkey or to our occupied northern Cyprus know one thing that help other economies, that they help other peoples rather than home, local production. Those who go to Turkey should also know for tourist reasons that it is very likely that they will be handcuffed for some trivial reason. They should also be aware that those who buy tobacco, alcohol and alcohol are strengthening through excise duty the Defence Industry Support Fund of Turkey, namely the gun, the bullet that will kill his child, who will kill him. Through this fund, all Turkish weapon systems are financed. So let the Greeks understand. No euros in Turkey, no euros in the Occupied Territories, no euros in enemies of Greece. Only in this way, with Greek initiatives, will we be able to change Greece. If we wait for any government, then we will fail, as has been failed. For this reason, we are appealing to the Greeks: select right, choose right, choose objectively, choose Greek on the basis of the program and plan of the Greek Solution. The vote on the Greek Solution is in Greece. Vote in Greek Solution is a vote tomorrow. Vote in the Greek Solution is the country's tomorrow. We are talking about the Greeks, Greece, and we say this: First Greece, first the Greeks. Not everyone else, and then the Greeks. First Greece. First the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u96	Mr Constantine Scandalidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we talk about justice, I think that Parliament should be kept as close as possible to the fullest possible discussion and the clearest look at an institutional constitutionally guaranteed institution that exercises an independent authority. We must admit that, as far as efforts have been made in the past, the majority of what our party has done, which, in a term of office, has also founded, the problems remain much and despite the body of judges with a consciousness of their role and function, are becoming increasingly acute and multiplying. In particular, they are multiplying in today's era where all the tectonic changes, which fill in insecurity, uncertainty and fear of citizens, make the problem of infraction, lawlessness, emergency crimes a priority. The phenomenon is growing today and we have to admit here in Parliament that the changes that are taking place in the institution, which I repeat most of which have been made by our own party, are slower than the changes required by the circumstances and that is a very, very important issue. It is no coincidence that in the 2019 Constitutional Review we proposed the upgrading of the Supreme Judicial Council to a high-level board with a brave modification of the current provision. We wanted to respond more radically to the central feeling of the citizens who are constantly fuelling many of the institution's confidence deficits in the way they are being tried, examined, evaluated and decided on the problems they have in relation to justice. Ladies and gentlemen, a multi-level reform in this area actually means five things, in our view: Firstly, modernising basic legislation, the issue of codes, which actually leads to a qualitative improvement in the performance of justice, the abolition of pluralism, the possibility of decisions being made more clearly. Secondly, alternative forms of dispute resolution. We are talking about mediation, which effectively relieves the numerous and irresponsible cases of court cases, effectively dismantles the courts and their ability, therefore, to play a more important role and a clearer role in the rule of law. Thirdly, electronic justice where we strike red tape in an finally effective way. Fourthly, judicial education, training, evaluation, which is the qualitative upgrading of human resources. And, fifthly, a new judicial charter with a overthrow, a change in spatial and thematic redistribution of the courts, so that today's conditions can be made more effective and more effective and make decisions more effective. They are five very specific axes that require a coherent reform plan. Anything that contributes in general or specifically without being accompanied by negative provisions which deny the content of this reform, we consider it to be a positive one and we vote in favour of it. The draft law, which the government brings today, falls within the scope of judicial education, training and evaluation, does not simply alter, but essentially replaces existing law, does not simply amend it, it has positive points and that is why our position is positive. Ladies and gentlemen, the National School of Judiciary is a school of choice, specialisation, training and evaluation aimed at a high-level judiciary, modern education and operation. As far as the choice is concerned, in the way we choose, our rapporteur has also made a comment on the competition, etc. that it has to be done with merital criteria and obviously the doubt is not that the interview with the large percentage given to it may alter the real facts of cognitive, let alone the possibility that candidates have. As far as specialisation is concerned, it is the sectoral division, which needs to be done with separate bodies at each level related to separate judicial cases. In other words, there can be no procedure for specific treatment by specific experts on matters of where you were, for example, or economic crime issues or other issues. There's been some sort of specialization, but it's not enough. As far as training is concerned, when everything runs on the speed of lightning, the public officials are the first to be aware of the issues and procedures so that they can keep up with our times. Finally, the evaluation means that there is a real and not typical one, so that there are independent, truly independent judges. All these issues are obviously the subject of today's proposal, the government. We believe that it is urgent that the National School of Judiciary Officers operates in a worthwhile and efficient manner, with the best educational staff, with the best curriculum for young judges and prosecutors. The rule of law, unfortunately, still remains in our country despite the steps taken to be called upon, and here we have to be, because it concerns a truly independent authority, and a very specific consensual and essential one through systematic dialogue, through Parliament's procedures, guaranteeing this enormous issue of our democracy. We are voting for the government proposal and we hope once again that the overall reform plan will include all the five areas that I have mentioned in a coherent way, so that it will really be a radical change that will help to address these major problems more quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much to Mr Scandalides and to the content of his position. This is absolutely true of the And we continue by entering the list of Members of Parliament with Mr Panayios Cappato, Member of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the bill, listening to Mr Velopoulos, the Chief of Greek Solution, I would like to focus on a point of the beginning of his speech. He said: 'There is no justice'. It is a heavy conversation, a very heavy conversation to be heard by a political leader in the Chamber of Democracy, in the living room of democracy, which is the Greek Parliament. The three axes of democracy in our country, one of the three pillars of democracy, are judicial authority, independent judicial authority. So this judicial authority cannot come and level it with this phrase that 'the chief is not justice', in fact, of a political party. And I have two comments on this. It cannot be heard because outside the courts it is the world, the ordinary world, who fights for his personal right, fighting for his own democracy in the judges. And let me, because I happen to be a legal and fighting lawyer thirty-two years, to know that there is justice, there is a judicial system, with whatever problems, if you like, that exist in it. So we can talk about problems, but we cannot say that there is no justice. I think it was a heavy conversation, which should not have been heard in the Greek Parliament in this way. (The sitting was held by G' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS). I come to today's bill, and before I begin again on the bill, I would like to comment on the amendment, the mandatoryity of schooling in kindergarten, primary school and high school. For the person who is diligent or truly caring for the minor and who omits his registration or supervision in respect of his student, there is a prison sentence of up to two years and a penalty of money. This is a regulation, which is required by a dual need: on the one hand, the protection of the whole population from the dispersion of the coronary and, on the other, the safeguarding of the right of access for children to inclusive education. We are therefore not talking about the obligation for parents only to attend the uninterrupted schooling of their children. We are, at the same time, talking about the right of children to education, education and access to schools and schools, their socialisation and not their alienation from their natural environment, which such alienation will only cause problems to the mental personality of children. It is a right that the organised state has a duty to safeguard and do so with today's amendment. In view of the above, I do not find any reasonable objection to the content of the amendment, which we welcome positively. I now enter the main part of my report on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice. When the National School of Justice was founded in 1994 and a year later it welcomed its first students, it was really a great time for the organization and institutional functioning of Greek justice. How could it, after all, be different when the need to serve the judiciary required the training and training of a high level of judicial officers? Indeed, it is the very reality that confirms the successful operation of the school so far. Twenty-six series of students have successfully completed the training program and serve as judges in the courts and prosecutors of the country. At the same time, a significant number of active judicial officers have successfully attended a series of training seminars on critical, topical legal issues, but also the thematically of wider interest, which fall within the nature of the judiciary. Today, twenty-seven years after the law that put the school in operation, a series of objective data directs us to strengthen the educational and educational character of the School of Justice. The first presumption concerns the functioning of the justice institution itself. The major delays in the process of awarding it, as well as the problems we have shown as pathogens and for which we have been called upon to legislate, leave no room for doubt about the importance of the training of judges in the direction of alleviating these malfunctions. The second presumption is linked to the attitudes that the modern digital age imposes on the way of organising justice. At the threshold of 2022, at the time of the fourth industrial revolution and the digitisation of a series of sectors of public administration, our professional life and everyday life, it is clear that conditions of life compared to those of 1994 differ considerably. This distance can only affect the way the National School of Judiciary is organised. Both the transformation of the way our society is organised and the needs of digital change obliges the modern judicial officer to adapt to this change. The third precedent is in direct contact with the two previous ones and is the organization of the National Judiciary. The digital age that we are currently experiencing requires the preparation of curriculum programmes tailored to it, as well as the design of a modern establishment plan capable of supporting increased educational needs. Both the school's administrative organisation and the process of selecting trainees or trainees to be trained are the dimensions which this draft law affects in the direction and logic I have just described. The integration of school funding into the Recovery Fund and the monitoring of the European Union's legislative work are initiatives adopted in the draft law that we are voting on today. The streamlining of the material and the introductory tender as a whole, the provision of regular compulsory training programmes for all judicial officers up to the level of this year and the expansion of the school's international cooperation are important interventions with particular added value. Finally, the introduction of the new regulations on teaching staffing is the result of systematic monitoring of international and European good practice. They are models which recommend to the teachers the descriptions and methods of maximisation of the educational print. The experience of the coronary pandemic has highlighted the need to develop such projects that can only add to the school's educational mission. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my introduction with a reference to the recent resolution of the bill on the functioning of the National School of Public Administration and make this reference to show how important it is for us to support and modernise the educational institutions, which are part of the wider logic of productive schools. The education and training of judges, like the staff of the public administration, goes through the creation of a fully coherent and modern framework for the organisation of the respective national schools. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u100	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. In the case of the National School of Judiciary, we follow the recent example of the success of the School of Public Administration. Extroversion, international cooperation, up-to-date curricula and reformed procedures of the introductory examinations are common features that confirm our intention to support the functioning and modernisation of the institutions of justice and public administration. Our intention is not only to prove itself in this draft law, but, overall, through our intervention in a number of problems that the judiciary is facing. After all, the areas for which we have already legislated from the summer of 2019 until today confirm our intention. From codification of legislation and the mediation law to changes in the Criminal Code and family law, we understand the range of reforms that we have introduced as a majority. The current draft law is therefore part of an overall philosophy that we have adopted and which allows the sensitive institutions of justice to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. Until the Step is ready, I will give the floor to Mr Ioannis Vrutsi, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u103	After two, Mr President, the two Members must speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u104	After two, you told me? I thought you wanted two minutes, I'm sorry. After two, we'll have a story, the Undersecretary will speak, get in touch. I have Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA, Mr. Kamine, and then you can...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u105	No, after one speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u106	No, from two. We'll agree. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u107	I didn't understand what happened, but because I'm in the committee of inquiry...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u108	You will speak properly, Mr. Kamine, get ready. You're right after Mr. Papaliou. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current bill is about reforming or rather amending the institutional framework for the National School of Judiciary. The individual elements, which form and form the National School of Judiciary Officers, emerge also from the person of the judge seeking to manifest himself, but also from the relationship between the judge and the executive authority in the exercise of his judicial function. The independence of justice and the impartiality of judges are central to the proper functioning of the rule of law and democracy. Its credibility, the credibility of its decisions and the confidence of its citizens in them are conditions which must be constantly strengthened. The personal and operational independence of judges shall form the basis of judicial independence. In this context, judicial officers other than high legal establishment need to have wider education, social representations, social experience, independence of opinion, developed critical capacity, awareness - not just knowledge - of social and economic life, but also of international reality, in order to meet the demands of society and the modern world. Storming developments with regard to technology, economic changes in the context of globalisation, social processes and forms presupposes that judiciary-functioning spirits, representations of real life, more general knowledge and, of course, independent and free spirit. Legal knowledge alone and expertise are not enough. Access to general education is essential. It is not sufficient for the judges to be a kind of technocrat in the application of the law. In addition, they should not work towards manipulation by the executive. The National School of Judiciary shall be responsible for the training and continuing training of the judiciary officials who will develop these characteristics. The school's function is linked to the independence of justice. This also concerns examinations for the introduction to it, the content of studies, the way in which graduates are classified, and the conditions for the incorporation of graduates into the judiciary, or the choice of those who will be involved in the training programmes. The observations of the judiciary associations are essential and must be taken into account or should be taken into account in order to have a transparent and democratic legislative procedure, a procedure which has been problematic since the beginning of the government's legislative initiative, since the judicial associations had been excluded from the committee. The absolutely essential and essential importance for the judiciary function of continuing training and evaluation of justice officials is regulated by the bill in a way - I would say - a problematic and extreme intervention for the independence of the institution. This general context is specified - depending on whether or not - by arrangements which sometimes meet the above-mentioned task of the judge and not by others. In particular, while the weight factor is initially increased from 0,5 to 1 in possession of a wide range of knowledge beyond close legal training, then the subject of ‘general education’ is replaced by ‘general legal education’. This runs counter to the need to develop judges with a wider range of knowledge and perception of real life. A maximum age limit is set for the admission to the National School of Judiciary Officers for forty years, a highly problematic provision for many reasons. Initially, it is a common place that the judiciary should not simply have legal knowledge, but have professional and social experience, that is, to have developed the ability to manage complicated situations not only from a legal point of view. It is true, moreover, that a fighter with experience can become someone after the age of thirty, thirty-five, if the necessary years of study in the law school and the postgraduate stage are taken into account. These fighting lawyers with many years of experience in the courts and at a productive age excludes this provision, which is far from European practice that eliminates the ceiling and imposes a higher threshold on imports. It comes as an autonomous prerequisite for a successful foreign language examination, and even before candidates have even been assessed. It goes without saying that candidates should know at least one foreign language, but this should be assessed at a second stage, that is, following their examination on legal matters. It changes the way the candidates are rated, and in particular the gravity factor for the oral examination is increased to 30% of the 15% that applied to date. This change concerns, but also strengthens the suspicion of its necessity. This quota does not strengthen transparency, equality and objectivity, with the consequence that we have a - I would say - an antagonism framework in breach of the principle of sovereignty in the examination process. It is known that most of the injustices, objections, the dispute generally arises in the oral examinations. Minister, under the pressure of things and the strong objections both to judicial associations, but also to the entire Opposition, you seem to be doing - because we have not yet seen them in writing - changes to specific arrangements that lead to the formation of a model judge, which is inconsistent with the needs and data of the time. However, these changes that you seem to be going forward are welcome. And one last in terms of training programmes for active judicial officers. It appears that the certificate of good repute is withdrawn, which will not enter the judge's office file. This is because we must not confuse participation in a training programme with evaluation. It was proposed by the judicial associations, in fact since the judges' assessment is regularly carried out each year and secondly, that the assessment relates to their judicial work. This is what the European Union of Judges referred to in its letter, which even states that the specific provision you have promoted - and it seems you will withdraw it - is a provision which comes into force and interferes with the independence of justice. I would therefore say that with these changes, which you seem to be going forward, there is an improvement in things. This does not mean that there are still strong objections, which, if heard, could form a model, a model judge different from what is known to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Let me inform you that Mr Kamine will now speak from the Change Movement, then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would like the floor until the Step is cleared to put forward legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u112	Yes, of course. The Minister has the floor, Mr Constantine Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. To put forward the legislative improvements - in time for this time, this is the important one - and to tell you that it is also the change in the percentages in the written and oral test, which is no longer so great a percentage, as was expressed by colleagues and by judiciary associations, but that the oral examination, the oral procedure, is worth 75% for the written and 25% for the orals. Please, I'm tabling the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. So I said that after Mr Kaminis, who is going to speak, Mr Brutsi, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, and then the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heitas, will take the floor. I don't want you to get any misunderstandings about putting two together. Mr. Hetas as speaker has half the time. Then there's Mr. Kouvelas and then the State Secretary. So Mr. Georgios Kaminas now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, please, after the Secretary-General, I as Parliament's representative have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u116	Of course, Mr. Blondopoulos. Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u117	Or you can give me the floor after a colleague speaks. Let a colleague intervene after the Minister, and then I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u118	Good, Mr. Blondopoulos. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. The National School of Judges was founded in 1994 by the then government of PASOK. It was another structure of excellence, where the cadet judge, having been introduced with a system of worthwhile and objective examinations, would receive all that necessary knowledge and skills so that the next day he can give justice to every degree and every jurisdiction. We need a well-trained and highly-trained judge more, I would say, than in other countries, because in our own country, as in others, the system of diffused control of the constitutionality of laws applies, which means that every judge, even the most remote court, has the right to examine the constitutionality of the law and not to apply the legislative text before him if he considers that it is inconsistent with the Constitution. This is an exceptional competence of an exceptional nature, because if it runs out all the degrees of jurisdiction, it actually leads or can lead to the lawmaker's will being cancelled. So the judge before whom any case arises must have sound legal knowledge, which, of course, will not only give rise to a sixteen-month programme, but also enrich them by continuing training. With regard to the organisation and functioning of the school, we see in the bill a tendency to concentrate responsibilities on the Director-General while strengthening the responsibilities of training and training directors to the extent to which disciplinary powers are exercised. On the subject of the introductory tendering procedure, three issues have been raised: reducing the age limit for participation in the tendering procedure, a distinct examination of the English language and an increase in the weight of the oral test to the final level of the candidate. With regard to the reduction of the age limit from forty-five to forty-one years after having carried out two introductory competitions, there is the argument that someone who was introduced into the judiciary to forty-five has no chance of career, since the age limit under the Constitution is sixty-seven years. The same can be done forty-one years. If we were to talk at another time, when the new scientist, the lawyer, had been taken into service earlier on the labour market, it could be argued that it is indeed worth reducing the age limit. But to reduce it today, which is the entirely opposite, I believe that it is something that may not go hand in hand with the needs of our time. On the matter of foreign language, there is no doubt that a modern judge must have excellent knowledge, at least, of English, in order to be able to deepen in the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights, but also in order to be able to contact modern international literature and, of course, also to facilitate his communication with his colleagues in Europe in the context of EUROJUST or other relevant agencies. It is true that in previous years there has been a criticism in considering the degree of foreign language to the final degree on the basis that the candidate is not considered accurately for his legal knowledge. I think it's time we got rid of this conception. Well, in my opinion, this prestige is given in the foreign language. It is no longer justified for people who practice such a high function not to have an excellent knowledge of at least English languages. The point I am going to make is the oral test. As far as the oral interview is concerned, and even gets an increased percentage from 15% to 30%...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u120	25%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u121	The Minister changed it a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u122	I just said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u123	Yeah? Good. It should therefore have increased guarantees, Minister. What are these increased guarantees? As I've said before, it's the public character of the oral interview. When I was in the Citizen's Counselor and there were nominations for people with too high qualifications...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u124	It's a public interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u125	I'm recording this because I didn't understand. The other thing you should consider, because it still has an increased rate in relation to the past, is that there may be a clerk from which the questions will come. In any case, I consider publicity to be essential. I would remind you that the examinations of the introduction to the Council of State were public, and it was a very important ceremony, and this was a very serious procedure before the court. That is why the Council of State has reached the point of having very high-quality judiciary officials, it has reached the point of having a high-level average adequacy of judges. I shall conclude, Mr President. It's good that the judges will also be graduated from the National Court School. It is also good that distinct directions are laid down in the direction of administrative justice, and that emphasis is now being placed on practical exercise. But while you are introducing the distinct directions, there is not enough deepening time. After the joint phase, only four months are foreseen for specialization, where one month is August and three months, of course not enough. Finally, there is an issue with the evaluation of students from the primary degree of the basic teacher, who essentially substitutes for all those who come to teach at the National School of Judges. He's getting the teacher's institution degenerated at the school. It is not meant to teach a course without his evaluation by the teacher himself. If you consider that a teacher, who has a few hours, should not score, give him more hours or assign the teaching to the main teachers in full. In addition, there is no specific criteria in Article 27. Insert a centralised system for evaluating the judges of the judiciary with a single dose of arbitrariness because it is subject to the best option of the master. I also think that Article 49 describes in detail the procedure and the criteria for selecting trainers at the National School. It would be advisable that this register should also be uploaded on the website of the School of Judges, so that it is publicly accessible at any time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. The Minister has changed the percentage during the oral examination. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, now has the floor and Mr Hetas is prepared. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I - if I may - allow the parliamentary procedure itself - before entering into the contents of this very important bill, which is introduced by the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, to refer to something of equal importance that I owe as an Isle, an Egyptian and a Cycladic Member of the European Parliament to mention to the National Representation. Yesterday, a very important agreement was reached in ECOFIN, an agreement which changes data that led to a very negative development. In particular, on the basis of the European Commission's recommendation of 2018, there was the direction of the European directive to include a single form in VAT rates by canceling and abolishing what Constantine Karamanlis had achieved with our accession to the European Economic Community in 1992. This success, which was unfortunately lost in the previous period, was achieved by the Greek Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, Athena Kalyvas, following tough negotiations to cancel, to change from yesterday this new political agreement at ECOFIN level, and now the road is now being opened definitively and irrevocably with this new European agreement on the possibility of reintroducing reduced VAT on the Aegean islands, the Dodecanese, the northern Aegean, the Cyclades, which is right, something that is necessary. We have said so many times from this House's step in defending this measure, this regime, the special arrangements for reduced VAT on the Aegean islands, because this was not only the issue of the competitiveness of the tourism product through reduced VAT, the special system of reductions of 30% of VAT rates, was also the resistance to the livelihood of residents, islands, which are not all operators. There are workers, there are pensioners, there are civil servants whose standard of living has unfortunately been reduced by increasing VAT rates, and their abolition in 2015. After yesterday's agreement the road is now being opened definitively and irrevocably - I repeat - if and if the government decides so, to return to the reduced VAT rates under the special scheme. I appreciate and hope that the government will not leave a blank letter and that this is in proportion and with the country's financial possibilities - to implement horizontally, in all the Aegean islands, this national objective that we have achieved in the past, we have lost for a long time now the possibility of coming back. It is a very important achievement of this agreement, which includes instruments and other elements for reduced VAT on dwellings, which are very important for the development dynamics but also for the primary sector of our country, as well as the position of the Greek Government since 2004 for agricultural machinery and the low VAT rate on cotton. So this achievement, ladies and gentlemen, which came yesterday as a very positive result of the ECOFIN negotiations, is now an open challenge for the Greek Government and the islands waiting for the reduced VAT rates to be restored. I must publicly thank - because all these years they have given this battle and they have never sent the flag of this national effort - the South Aegean Region, the district commander, all the mayors of the Aegean islands, who together were fighting this whole time to restore the special status of VAT on the Aegean islands. As far as our bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to both the rapporteurs and Members of all the parties on this bill. But let's see what it's all about. This bill relates to the National School of Judges of our country. Is it important? Answer: yes. Why is this bill so important? I have heard from everyone - and here there is a common agreement - that a rule of law is the foundation of democracy. Everyone said so and we all agree on it. It is necessary for a rule of law to have good judges. What does good judges mean? It means a high level of education, legal training, integrity, morality, independence, openness and much more that one might add. So it is very important how these judges are trained to whom we invest as a state to have the element of the rule of law, which is part of our democracy. So what is the bill doing? The bill does something very simple, self-evident. The National School of Judges, established in 1994 on the basis of Article 88(3) of the Constitution, has been operating since 1995. Was it a successful institution? Answer: yes, it was a successful institution. It has so far worked in the way it has worked, but as with all the institutions in the course of the years there are gaps, there are issues which need to be resolved through social development itself and social reality. So the Ministry of Justice is attempting after twenty-seven years to come and intervene at the National Court School, something very proper, self-evident, as I said before. This National Court School and the bill did the Minister Tsiara himself write it in his office? Answer: no. The political chief of the Ministry of Justice has commanded the judges themselves who have been engaged in the National Court School for seven months to draw up the bill and with respect to their opinion he has brought this bill to a vote in Parliament. He was unscrupulous, didn't he accept any change? Of course not. You saw just before the Minister put forward legislative improvements and by the committee debated the bill so far too many of the objections and remarks of all the parties were accepted. So, basically, we have a political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, which is moving towards improving and modernising this very important institution of the National School of Judges and, at the same time, accepting comments which have been made by the governments of this Parliament, as the democratic process and democratic dialogue imposes and adopts them. We therefore have a good bill aimed at exactly what we all want: the creation of good judges. One question arises: Who will run this National Court School? Are they people chosen by the Minister of Justice or by the government in question? Answer: no. The board of directors, as reflected here in the law, is purely institutional. The positions of all those who are in the administration of the national judiciary are individuals who are high prestige, undeniable and are also institutional in the field of justice. It is, for example, the President of the Ice Bay, the President of the Court of Auditors, who are judiciaries of high law, who are in the process of joining the board of directors, as provided for by the law, and they will decide on the future, the prospect and the problems of the National School. In short, what is the bill doing? Two things. In a successful institution - which we all agree - since 1994-1995 that worked, after twenty-seven years, the need to upgrade and modernise the National Judicial School is now considered. Twenty-seven years have now come the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, it considers that they need to change some things following a recommendation from the judges themselves and introduces provisions through which, firstly, the level of study is improved - we are all in agreement with this - and secondly, continuing training is mandatory. Here also a question arises: How many times in this Chamber for other things have we said that there is a need for continuing training? Is anyone now going to take a position that after graduating from the university or a school, which does its master's degree, is it all over? All the professionals of our country are constantly training either institutionally or individually, through their involvement with their profession and the continuing learning and deepening of the knowledge of their scientific professions. It is not without continuing training in the global environment, the competitive one we live in. So this bill, which is exactly what it is doing and I think the objections that are being raised today, should be lifted by the end of the voting procedure. Because I did not hear criticism of any substance that called into question its substance and its content. In the criticism he heard, most of the objections were in matters not related to the bill. This draft law must be assessed in its content, if and if it upgrades the judges' studies, if and if we are or are not in line with the continuing training of judges. That is the point, and I do not think there is anyone who said by the rapporteurs or by the parliamentary representatives that it does not agree. I therefore appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a bill that meets all the conditions that are necessary to have good judges, ignorant judges, judges who will graduate from the National School and will also be independent and richer in knowledge and, at the same time, they will be constantly trained to exercise the very crucial and important role of justice next day, a justice which - I repeat - is one of the three pillars of our democracy and which - we all agree - needs to enrich it, strengthen it with this dimension of the rule of law. Most of which specialise in the bill has been said very thoroughly and very thoroughly by our rapporteur, Mr Giannis Lambropoulos, who accurately described all aspects of this procedure. So, at the closure of this process, I believe and hope that the logic will be reversed, that the positive side on the bill will be relegated and voted on by all parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you too for keeping time. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. 'And they lived well and we lived better', Mr. Brutsi. That's good. It sounded like a fairy tale. It's time to fix everything, we'll do it all. What you failed to achieve forty-seven, forty-eight years that you are ruling this country, will be doing with this bill today. Mr Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I would like to make a brief statement that someone here a moment ago, a Member of your Parliament, said something after the speech of the President of Greek Solution. He said that it is not allowed to be heard by the President of Parliament to say that the world has no confidence in justice, etc.." What do you mind? Where are we telling the truth? Haven't you learned to hear the truth? Don't you know what's out there? On the contrary. A political leader must tell the Greeks the truth. So you're proud of the image of Greek justice? So what Mr. Velopoulos said is not true? You don't know that? Now you hear it, first time? Get out, make a poll out there, but regular poll, not like those of yours, who took out PASOK's third one and all those mysteries you're doing. Ordinary poll. A poll and ask people what their opinion is. Minister, Mr Chiara, you must be aware that he is not a successful minister who produces many laws, he is the one who correctly and effectively implements the laws. Okay, for the justice system we've told it a hundred times that it needs a whole reform. So do this poll I told you and see what the Greek people, the Greek citizens, think about Greek justice are. This is what Kyriakos Velopoulos described earlier, mere things, the things that apply. Mr. Chiara and Mr. Kotsira, two or three comments, to go to some other issues. It is a bill that gives excessive legislative powers to the Minister of Justice. You place the Director-General, you place the financial planning director, training directors, training managers, all. On what criteria, of course, you did not tell us that you placed them. You bring bills and you ask us to wonder - often we have said that -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u130	The Supreme Judicial Council...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u131	...if we're dealing with lawmakers or photographers, because most of them are photographic. That's what you're doing. You say, among other things, in Article 9, that among the responsibilities of the Director-General, which you place, is the possibility of dismissal of disciplinary action. Why? Why such powers? In Article 20, increase the rate of oral testing. We finally ended up in 75-25. We were in 20-80, 70-30 and everything else. Each one here understands why you do it. You put the subjective factor deep in the game. The subjective factor. Theory, all right. Article 17. Change the age limit of candidates and throw it from forty-five to forty. Can I ask you something? One who's forty years old can't be a judge? We're not looking for athletes, judges we're looking for. In any case, Antonis Mylonakis analysed them very well before. You will allow me to make two, three comments on some topical issues. Unfortunately, at this time, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing our homeland really being tested after seeing, at least in the pandemic - pandemic, economy, two key issues - that you have failed miserably and we will explain why. Yesterday I was in a TV panel - this is scarce, but it gives us the reason where and where to speak - with a Member of your Parliament, a former Minister, Mr Karaoglu. Well, yesterday, at the time of the show, I got upset. Without asking him, he spoke - by clarifying that he does not, he says, expresses the Government, the New Democracy - for all, from infants to ninety-five, a hundred years old, for forced vaccination." It supports the enforceability of vaccination for all citizens. Obviously, the man did not express his personal opinion only, as he says. It worked as a political rabbit. You two go out and two or three say it, and there's going to be some progress. It's creepy, don't say fascist. It's creepy, really. There is one in here, Minister, to put a little bit of reason to work, you are a reasonable man, both ministers and colleagues. Cases increase sharply. Yeah? Yeah. Yes, sir. The vaccinated ones that are too many -70% stick and transmit. Why don't we take some measures for everyone too? What measures do we mean? Mask, everywhere. Restraint on distances. Aren't these true for vaccinated people? Observation avoidance, especially in enclosures, bars, clubs, etc. Weekly tests don't these people have to do? So if the vaccinated ones get stuck and you come here, you won't get the rest of them stuck? Shouldn't these people be controlled? So, what is it that proves? That you don't care about protecting citizens. Oh, no. You're interested in punishing the rest. That's what you're interested in. Because if you were reasonable people... The number of pupils in classes has not been restricted. That hasn't changed. Public transport: lunatics do. We are still waiting for Mr Mitsotakis' studies to tell us that we are not sticking to public transport. So none of these things you have done. So the cases are growing. I'll take a piece of my dentistry and then I'll finish, Mr. President. You have the seven thousand sanitary people in the fourth month of suspension. How will these people live? And what health system are we talking about with so many people on parole? We're at war and you're sending the warriors to their homes? Surgeries are postponed every day. Staff isn't enough! You don't know that, do you? As long as you don't want to see the problem in the face, it'll grow. Elements, do you want numbers? On Monday, Mr President, France had a hundred and ninety - two coronary complications, Greece had a hundred sixteen. France has sixty-seven million people, we ten-five million. How is that possible? What are we not doing well? 70% vaccinated in France, 66%-67% in Greece. The figures themselves. Six times the population of France, almost the same deaths. Why? How can this be done, explain it to us. How is 68% fully vaccinated in Germany? In Greece about the same percentage. Why in Germany, yesterday, 1,38 deaths per million, and we had eleven? How is that possible? Explain to us. Something's wrong. And because I have heard the parliamentary representative again, take note of the pandemic and the economic part. Don't mock the world. People have a hard time out there. Don't drive him crazy. He hears and loses his senses that you're doing well, that everything goes perfectly, that the economy recovers. We're triumphant. I listen to Adoné yesterday, on the right and left, 'The Triumph of Economics', 'Development', 'GDP', 'Reduction of unemployment'. People are listening. What are you doing? You're playing with numbers. You're rushing the logic of the world. You're celebrating once again. You're telling us about GDP. What GDP? Increase of 13.4%, you say, of GDP. With a loan of 43.3 billion. So what did we do? We borrowed 43.3 billion, dropped it and increased GDP of 13.4%. But our GDP, Mr Chiara, 2020-2021 will be 5 billion lower than 2019. So what are you celebrating? We'll be down there again. The trade deficit has increased, it has been launched. You're saying there's an increase in exports. Yes, but more than doubled imports and there is a huge trade deficit. Tell them to the world. Where do you live? I don't have it with me to show you now. I got the power and the gas. I paid about 100 euros a month. I got 308 euros. I've got them there, I'll show them to you now. And I've had the gas yesterday, 290 euros from 80 euros. I can pay them, though. The world out there what will it do? An increase of 400% in vegetable fats, oils and others. What I'm telling you is what's going to go shopping every day. 50%-60% in cereals, 50% in packaging materials, 18% in sugar, 120% in rent and electricity. Do you understand? Where do you live? Pick up your ministers, not to go out and celebrate an economic triumph. Get them the most reasonable in here at least. The cost of production from the electricity we now pay is EUR 240, when the cost of lignite production is EUR 120, half. Oh, no! Let the lignites close! I'll see you tomorrow in the lignite bill. A small industry, a small industry, paid 19,000 euros electricity and pays 47,000 euros. Tell me how this man can stand. How can he withstand and become competitive? You tell me a little bit. And all that in the Minutes. Question: But, you're opposition, you say, you say. Measuring and suggestions. We've told you a hundred times. On this and I am closing down, Mr President. Reduction of taxes and VAT we have said a hundred times in the first-ever, food and energy sectors. Reduction in excise duty. Hands off lignites, now that we are in the middle of the storm of the energy crisis. It is unfair for the state to collect, Mr Chiara, increased taxes from increased prices in the first-hand species. What have we said? When I say this again, it makes 10 euros and the state receives 24%, i.e. 2.4 euros, when it does 15 euros - it makes 15 euros - what is collected by the state is 3.6 euros. Why? Continue to collect EUR 2.4. So I am reducing taxes, it is not losing the state, it will collect everything it received so far and it will drop the price of the product, whether it is fuel, whether it is energy, it is milk, it is meat or anything else. Don't you understand? And I'm closing, Mr. President, really. We don't care about your destruction, because that's where you're heading. When each government loses its contact with the people, with the Greek citizens, it has no idea what's going on out there - the MPs know what's going on out there, because you're going back to your areas as we go - you're going to be politically paying for it and looking for your vote. A hundred and fifty-eight Members will never see you in your best dreams again. What we are interested in is the destruction of the Greeks, because eventually the Greeks will pay your own mistakes and your own criminal policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u132	Mr Dimitrios Kouvelas is called to Stepma from New Democracy, then the Deputy Minister and then Ms. Raptis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill of special importance, as it is yet another real reform in the field of justice. Indeed, it is particularly good that the majority of Members who have spoken share this view and have invaded the debate before now. The government and the Ministry have been laying the foundations for the first two and a half years to achieve the double bet we have placed. On the one hand, to safeguard and strengthen legal certainty and, on the other, to improve quality and to speed up the administration of justice. It is true that the pandemic has affected the functioning of the courts as much as any other public function. Nevertheless, Greece has slowly ceased to be Europe's pigeon with dozens of condemnatory decisions against us for delaying the adoption of decisions by our judges and improving our position with the legislative interventions that have been taking place for two years. Unfortunately, however, we are still in the last position or about the last place in the matter of the continuing training of our judges. This climate is also changing with the continuous deep areas that are taking place in the field of justice. No one can question the important interventions made over the last two years and enjoy the confidence of the judiciary, the judicial officers, the lawyers and, ultimately, the citizens themselves. We had mediation, the institution established, the new code for the Court of Auditors, the Code of Civil Procedure, the new penal codes, the new Code of Judiciary, interventions in the Civil Code and questions of Family Law. Of course, there are others that need to be done for the judicial officers, so that they too can do better in their important work. But today the bill we're discussing is making major contributions to the National Court School after many years where things hadn't changed in the meantime. The bodies themselves, the Director of the National School of Judges, presented to the committee the reasons why these changes which we are discussing are necessary. Great problems, situations that do not fit in with the climate of the time, the digital age, or, of course, our legal system or the system of a modern European country, as we are now on this map. The need to modernise the School of Judges is therefore a common place. Of course, we all realise that the more the legal and social environment is changing the more carefully, more vigilantly, in relation to such changes. There's a tradition for the Judiciary School. In 1994, it was founded under Article 88 of the Constitution, since 1995 it operates in Thessaloniki. It continues until today to be the womb from which great judicial officers have come to dedicate the judiciary seats of the whole country. But judicial education must not be stopped, it cannot be stopped, it must have the continuous objective of strengthening justice with competent judges, with high state authority, with necessary knowledge and this is an undeniable need for our society. The presence of judges with modern thought, with an independent opinion, with knowledge and perception of the social reality, knowledge and perception of the economic environment, not only of the Greek but also of the European, is the least that the Greek judge has today been accepted to have. In this context, in this sense, we are strengthening its school and function by pursuing excellent training and continuing training. It is a separate reform and an incision to come. So, in terms of modernity, they are chosen, drawn up and evaluated, and by modern rules, the graduates who are going to serve our country's courts next. The school will be constantly working with educational and vocational training bodies in the public and private sectors, with institutions such as Greece and abroad, away from the logic of a sterile demolition, as was heard by colleagues from the Officerial Response. It also participates in many European training programmes, but also cooperates with local government agencies and with legal persons in the public sector, with international organisations, with international courts. It is thus upgraded, modernised and now operating in the modern environment, the international and not just the Greek one. Even its support from the Recovery Fund has been achieved, in addition to the aid it will have from the regular budget, where appropriate. The broadening of the responsibilities of the school bodies, namely the board of directors, the Director-General, the training directors of all areas, is something which is provided for and particular attention is given to monitoring the European Union's legislative work and to the case-law of its court and of the Court of Justice of Human Rights. For the first time, the direction of the peacekeepers has been established and functioning, which is very important, since both the material and the economic object of these courts have been widened, as we know. An invitation to tender will now be published in good time so that there is no uncertainty between the candidates or delays. The written examination will have a weight factor of 75%, as finally formed, and an oral test of 25%. So there is extra value and that is rightly done. The practical exercise, in which of course all of us realise that we must attach particular importance, will take place in the courts of Thessaloniki. I should like to point out here, Mr Minister, that the consultation process and the discussions of the relevant committees are of importance. This is a very good practice that you systematically follow, and this here only in good legislature can pay off. Besides, for us, for our Government, parliamentary procedures are not static, formal procedures, but they are absolutely essential. So the Ministry listened to you, assessed, intervened, both on the question of practical training and on the place that will take place after school education, but also on the degree of gravity of written and oral procedure. That is how we come to a piece of legislation that is even broader acceptance by this House. Away from egos, away from political giants, you are the Ministry and the political leadership you seek and find solutions to the issues. The performance of trainees will be assessed by trainers on the basis of work and personality. It adds the psychiatric investigation of their personality, which will be carried out twice, which has been considered necessary and is an international practice. But very importantly, continuing training is also provided for trainers themselves, for teachers. This is a good international practice. It applies to countries where they have a high legal culture and also to international organisations. From the above, ladies and gentlemen, it is understood that our main objective is to change the culture of the judiciary, the working environment of this function, through a modern model of learning, which will help in the training and qualitative upgrading of the Greek judge and ultimately in the more rapid administration of justice and the strengthening of the rule of law. For let us not forget that it is a well-trained and adequate judicial officer who will give a solution to all the serious, difficult issues that will be considered. He is the one who will shape the modern case-law that our society needs and ultimately the citizens themselves. As we have admitted, it is a problem when judges are affected by the time of the day, and on the contrary it is necessary to keep up with the climate of the time. But above all we want judges who, according to Socrates, "They listen politely, respond consistently, think correctly and finally decide impartially". With these thoughts, I call on you to vote in favour of the draft law and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u134	Be well. Where it's built and the school in Thessaloniki you're glad to go. Mr Georgios Kotsiras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin my position with regard to yesterday's report by the Minister for the implementation of the self-employed office for the protection of minors "The house of the child" in Athens. We had the pleasure yesterday to visit with the Minister this particular site, which now operates after many technical, organisational, administrative and service problems have been solved throughout this period. We managed to operate "The house of the child" of Athens, which is indeed an institution that has significant benefits in the wider area of justice, the protection of minors, and we are pleased that with our interventions, in cooperation with the "CYP SA" throughout the period, with the services of the Ministry of Justice, with continuous initiatives to change and modify problems and problems, in the context of which they existed, to be possible. In this way, we have been able to make it easier for the judicial and public prosecutors to have a procedure to testify to minors in a specially shaped area, so that there is an optimal administration of justice in this very sensitive area, which concerns the victims, specific offences, particular criminal deportation and particularly sensitive ones. This is a policy that is a more general policy for the Ministry of Justice, because, on the one hand, it is part of the National Action Plan on the Rights of the Child adopted by the National Mechanism, it has already been signed by many Ministers and concerns horizontal actions in relation to the protection of minors and child rights for the period 2021-2023 and is following on from other actions such as changes in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which had emphasised the protection of minors and, in particular, regarding the prosecution of offences relating to the sexual freedom of minors, the way of prosecution, penalties. This, together with the deposit procedure that we are trying to improve, I think it creates a better, more qualitative framework for the effective protection of minors in these sensitive processes. We have also come in cooperation with the Ministry of Education to introduce human rights and the rights of the child into skills workshops. A working group has been set up which evaluates the human trafficking framework, which we know and have discussed on several occasions that it has a large part to do with minors trafficking victims. Also recently, on the initiative of the Prime Minister, the National Action Plan for the protection of children was announced on the basis of sexual abuse, in which action is being taken by the current Member, Mr Raptis, with whom we have repeatedly come to contact, in order to raise issues relating to the protection of minors and the Ministry of Justice, and to be able to progress together in synergies, which will benefit this very sensitive objective that the Prime Minister has set in place and which the Greek Government as a whole emphasises. Following on from this - and I am linking it to the bill that we are discussing today - there is no doubt that the training of judges has a key role to play in the bill that has been voted on today by the Ministry of Justice. Continuing training of judges is a key axis on which the judge of the future will be built. That is why I also mentioned it in committee and said to me, in fact, Mr Xanthopoulou because I am referring to Rule 42 and not to Rule 40, which was the general debate. I mentioned this because, in Article 42, there is a wide range of modern themes to which we do not obviously disagree, but which form an environment of work for the future judge on very sensitive issues, one of which is the justice-friendlyness of children and the protection of minors and the protection of people with disabilities, as well as the more general issues relating to human rights. I say this, because all of this together can create and cultivate a spirit that is more favourable and more essential to the judge of the future, in order to assess with particular sensitivity and such issues that are often raised. The legislative framework is updated, as we have done recently, needs are evolving, society is moving on, and the judge cannot be disfellowshipped from such issues that have been raised in the legal environment. I believe that it will strengthen both the image of the country and its position in the European Justice Scoreboard. As we have pointed out, unfortunately, our country in 2019 was in the last place with zero actions. Its position improved in 2020. We are trying to improve this image of the country on the international front, but above all to help to create a legal, substantive, procedural environment that will protect minors in all their appearances, actions and any reminder of them. There is no doubt, therefore, that the National School of Judges plays a very important role in shaping the future judge, drawing up the new judges, training the servants, raising the level of justice, based on this judicial structure. During their school session, future judges receive the necessary knowledge, which will be beneficial for their future term of office to the very difficult task they have to perform on the basis of constitutional provisions. And indeed, the National School of Judiciary is playing an important role. It has achieved the purpose for which it was created in the 1990s, but throughout this period, as we have all agreed, needs have been created, new data have emerged, changing conditions which have created the need for the state to intervene. And it intervenes in a way through this draft law that will help improve the quality of justice in our country for many years to come through a better environment of education, continuous, lifelong and regular education of judges. It will obviously also lead to a limiting of the time needed to give justice together with quality. The conditions will be created so that future and active judges will respond to the new legislative perceptions and changing socio-economic needs and challenges through this training process and that all available educational tools and learning data are exploited, so that in this educational and educational process, the very critical process for the judge of the future, there is a modern and more modern concept. Because I have heard Mrs Adamopoulou, who made some interesting remarks, that in fact, the judge is constantly training, there is a constant need for evaluation and monitoring by the very nature of their functions from the legal environment. However, the state of what it has to do is institutionalise operating within the National School of Judges, to be able to provide the working environment with safety and modern education, so that we have a judicial officer in the future that meets the real needs of Greek society and legal science. Important interventions of this bill are, as mentioned, the funding of the National School, which is now part of the Recovery Fund and will allow the school to develop even more from logistical infrastructure and from the point of view of strengthening its educational and educational activities. It is the continuous - and is at the core of the whole process - monitoring European and international legal data, so that, as I said, they are in contact with the real dimension and the environment, which is shaped in a European and international context in law. It is the functioning and prediction of sensitive themes, such as those mentioned above for human rights, for people with disabilities, for minors. You'll give me two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u136	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u137	For people with disabilities, for particular themes, modern, modern, economic law, institutional law, procedural law, so that there can be a wider training of judges. It is the function for the first time, too, of the Peace Process, which ensures the strengthening of their training. And we have to stress here that this provision is very important, because in court practice we know that, given the increase in the material available in the pacifist courts - it is a very important and very important point of contact between society and the area of justice - it is crucial that there should be a coordinated training for the pacifists, as well as in general the whole framework of education which is also in cooperation with the school with European bodies, which reinforce the international dimension of the training of active judicial officers and the monitoring of continuous international and European developments, with a strong imprint on their practical dimension, to which much emphasis is placed on this draft law. It is also a provision for the oral procedure and for the reinforcement of the percentage in a very coordinate manner. It was explained by the Minister to the committees how often the existing framework has actually led to the absence of an evaluation of the oral procedure. With the changes we think there will be a balance between written and oral assessment, because, as we have all pointed out, the nature of the function of the judiciary and the public prosecutor is obviously passed on from his assessment at the level of personality, and that is why there is a provision for the oral examination, so that there is a more extensive and balanced assessment of his/her future tasks. With these considerations and taking the view that there has been a very interesting debate in the parliamentary committee, where with the changes that the Minister has mentioned through the legislative improvements and through the use of the data put forward by colleagues from the opposition parties and also by the bodies, showing that the Ministry of Justice, as he always does at the beginning of this government, takes into account the issues raised in the parliamentary debate, I believe that there is currently a working environment balanced, which achieves the objectives and good legislature, but also the substance of the legislature for a modern School of Judiciary, which will be the tool, the model in which the judge of the future will be formed, the judge who will assess the modern legislative environment of the coming years and will obviously also contribute to the formation of a society that will have greater confidence in Greek justice. All these steps in this direction are being taken and I believe that this bill has strong reform elements which will keep the School of Judges in a modern, adequate environment for many years and I think it is appropriate today, with the greatest possible majority possible, to support the parties in the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u138	Thank you too, Minister. Until the Step is ready, I will give the floor to the Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, for Amendment No 1160 by a specialist. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologise for the small intervention. I'll be very brief. We have submitted together with the Ministry of Justice a arrangement concerning the cases of parents and guardians who keep their children away from school, because they may not want their children to wear a mask, self test and so on. And I want to be clear: This is where we are protecting the access of all our children to education. Will someone ask, "But is it about a lot of people?" No, it's the answer. It is an isolated case, but one case is enough. The state must, in our view, protect children's access to education and that is why there are additional criminal responsibilities for those parents or guardians who keep children away from training on the basis of that, I would remind you that education is compulsory in kindergarten, primary and high school. There are, therefore, specific arrangements with criminal responsibility for those parents who choose to keep their children away from education. I should also like to say that the same amendment extends until the end of March 2022 the deadline for conversion of lifelong learning centres to the 2020 lifelong learning centres and also gives our universities the possibility of extending cleaning, disinfecting and keeping buildings until the end of March 2022. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: I would like to believe that these regulations and, in particular, the regulation on the protection of our children and the access of all our children to education will be voted for by all the parties in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u142	Here you go, Mr. Xanthopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u143	Madam Minister, because you have recommended the amendment, I address you. In Article 3 on compulsory schooling, we are all very well aware that, as a legal order, we must take measures and protect children's rights. I would like to know whether, with regard to the threatened two-year sentence, you have introduced it with a sense of proportionality with other offences or with no account being taken of what happened and what happened. That's the first. The second thing I would like to ask is that the supervision of the minor is a general legal concept. To what is the neglect of supervision? In a week, five days, three months, six months? Do you have a sense? I think that on a very serious issue which concerns the Greek society you should withdraw from the amendment, come and sit calmly and discuss it, put in place appropriate and proportionate measures to punish those who have the responsibility of children who do not go to school for the 'white' reasons and, above all, separate it from the social causes of the school leak. The rest at my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u145	Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u146	Madam Minister, we want to ask you something. You are bringing an amendment all of a sudden without there being any dialogue with anyone. That it's a problem, we all recognize it. Why couldn't you... What's going on, Mr. Chiara?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u147	There was the layout. It was a bite and the fallout was abolished. It's nothing new.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u148	In 2019 it was repealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u149	I repeat that there is a provision that is horizontal. Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u150	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u151	It is. Well, let's see. 11% of children leave schools. This is the official percentage of the Ministry of Education. Is it or isn't it? It is. Who's it for? You know much better. We also know who it is about. So you come with this amendment - you could talk about the negative ones - and you say that anyone who does not send their child or prevents it, etc. He will be punished by imprisonment for up to two years. There is a huge problem because there are social dimensions. objectively in the amendment - I do not account for intentions - I include everyone, and those who cannot send them, single-parent families for various reasons, which have been analysed, and the deniers of vaccines who are consciously not sending their children. And you are asking us to agree on such a horizontal arrangement. And I'm telling you one more thing. I will give you an example. Two parents don't send their kids. You're punishing them with two years' imprisonment. What about the kids? Are there social infrastructures? Is there a personalization? We have been saying this for so long in the face of the pandemic. Are you laughing, Mr. Chiara?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u152	The mask doesn't look like it. Don't say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u153	If you are laughing, Mr Chiara, to make a turn in the world too, to see what happens with these issues and what difficulties there are not only there, but elsewhere. Let me not open my mouth now and start to generalize. How many kids don't go to university, why can't their parents pay the rent? And you don't do anything about it. Tell us what you're gonna do. Why do we ask this question? Because you do nothing in general, because there is no social infrastructure to deal with 11% which has nothing to do with the pandemic, there was before the pandemic. What do you answer all this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u154	Understood, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u156	Here you go, Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u157	Madam Minister, this provision was indeed in law. It provided that the infringement would be punished as a slap and specifically punished by an administrative fine. Now you're turning it into a flood and you're predicting a heavy maximum penalty. You told us that this amendment was related to parents who prevent their children from wearing a mask or doing a self test. First of all, these measures have proved inadequate because the schools have become health bombs and therefore the spread of the virus has not been prevented from these measures. Not letting a parent go to school is indeed a bad exercise of custody and regardless of pandemic is related to the general leak, which has to do with the poverty indicators. A child can be from a very poor family. We know the social problem. But as far as pandemic is concerned, not to let the parent keep his child's health measures which I repeat are inadequate, but not to let him go to school because schools are health bombs, this is thinking of whether it is a bad exercise of custody, because, Minister, what have you done so long to ensure that schools are healthy? You diluted the rooms, the departments? In September there was a statement from the Ministry of Education in a meeting with OLEME that you will not dilute the departments. Parts have been merged, children have been stacked in rooms of over twenty - five and thirty people. Have there been attempts to find other rooms, make room for use as rooms? Oh, no. Did you install the stalking in schools free of charge with molecular testing? This must be done for everyone not only for schools, because when someone goes and makes three rapid tests and molecularly comes out positive, while the rapid test comes out negative, we understand how much dubious efficiency and reliability self test are. So we think that teachers and children have been exposed to health risks. Schools right now are not safe. Any refusal by the parents not to observe the health measures - we are discussing this - but to send their children to schools, because the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health has done nothing as co-responsible and co-responsible ministries to ensure health care for children and teachers, while supporting the ESS and primary health care, is the responsibility of the Ministry. We should not go criminalizing behavior, targeting parents who are currently working in some cases and in the best interests of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I shall speak very briefly, because we have placed ourselves on this amendment and on the main speech of our rapporteur, Mr Antonis Mylonakis. First of all, you brought it back, Mrs. Kerameau. There was no punishment. The criminal code had been abolished. Now you're actually reinstated the punishment. However, the conclusion, which is unscathed - and we stressed it in all tons and previously in our speech - is that you do not really care about the protection of citizens. It's not about protecting citizens. What you are most interested in is that you have a punishing attitude for those who do not co-operate with what you decide. A key question that was raised by everyone - Antonis said so before -: If both parents enter prison? The first child on parole. The second child went to jail. Where are we going to take that kid? Are there structures, social structures? Secondly, has the number of pupils really been limited in ranks? We say self-evident things and we tire people, but it is a very important question. Have they been reduced to classrooms? Oh, no. So the danger remains the same - yes - to come home and catch you either you're vaccinated or you're not. But I've asked. The kid's gonna come back and get you stuck. Because I'm saying you're not really interested in protecting citizens. Because if you were interested in the party, the issue of education, you would have diluted the children in the rooms, so the number of students in the halls would have been limited, you would have reduced the number of passengers in the public transport, where you did nothing, you would have taken measures to avoid congested, especially in enclosed areas, which we all know now - we have all admitted - that vaccinations and disease and transmit. So, after I get sick and transmit, if you put me with forty people, she's gonna be crazy. If you put me with four hundred people in a club this morning, it's gonna be crazy. So your measures are not essentially social in nature for the protection of the citizen. They're purely punishable. I don't really know where this catapult leads you, the politician means catastrophic, in any other case. But we have said it before: We do not care that you have political losses and you will lose and you will be destroyed. Do what you want. Cosmakis pays her. That's the problem. I really don't have what to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although it is not a matter of a purely simple nature, I shall be happy to reply to the question of measures in schools. In our schools, we have been implementing a policy which has been in place since September with measures to protect within school class, but also with too many increased tests. The school community, the educational community, is the only one that is controlled as a whole. Every week all the children, except those who are vaccinated, run two tests a week. In addition, in case there is a case of close contacts in the case, how many tests do? Seven per week, one every day. It's all free and laboratory and self. A few days ago I was at the Education Council of the European Union. I didn't hear any country doing seven free tests a week. I repeat: Seven. Why does that matter? Because international practice shows that an extremely effective tool right now is the increased testing. You check the close contacts every day and you see at any time whether they are a vector of the virus, and therefore you can stop spreading the virus. And say something? Stop dispersing the virus within the school, but it also helps society, because when you have a huge population total, when you have a million hundred thousand people in the schools as a whole, the fact that all of them are systematically controlled is catalytic to control the spread in society as a whole. So we have school protocols, increased testing, which I do not hide you costs too much. It is a conscious decision by the Government to invest in increased testing and to invest on the one hand in protecting public and individual health and, on the other hand, to ensure the livelihood of schools. What's the result? And I answer you. That for the past two weeks, although the pandemic has been under way, as we all know, we have almost a thousand less cases in schools in just two weeks. What's the result? That now that we're talking, we've got about fifteen blocks closed in the country in over eighty-five thousand divisions. So is that the failure? The fact that we have 0.01% closed sections? I really think it is regrettable to oppose them. In any case, the data is clear and that is what they show. Schools follow the pandemic, don't drive it. And this is credited to our teachers, our students and their parents. So I come to the subject of the amendment tabled by my colleagues. You asked how the sentence was set. The sentence was established in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice. I stress it's up to two years and a penalty. And with regard to custody it is clear that this is judged on a case-by-case basis by the courts. It is judged by the judiciary how diligence is exercised. I think these things are clear. To say this: there was a prediction. It was a prick. It was abolished in 2019 by the previous government and we are coming now and we are passing a clear message, a clear message that no one can deprive a child of education. Can we talk openly? Education in our country is compulsory. It is compulsory in kindergarten, primary and high school to provide our children with the supplies we have to give them. What are we talking about? It must be mandatory, but there must be no penalty? Should it be compulsory on paper? Do we or do we not want our children to study? So, now we're talking about whether it's normal for a parent, who doesn't want to self-test his child, his child to be deprived of education, that precious good? We as a government support this and therefore insist on how important it is and let it be too little. It was a joint initiative of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education to protect each child, each student and every student having uninterrupted access to education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, too. And we are going to the speakers who have shown a great deal of patience. One of these is Mrs Rapt from New Democracy and Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou is also prepared by the New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak at today's sitting because the bill under discussion includes, apart from the many important changes and provisions that are in line with the National Action Plan for the protection of children against sexual abuse and exploitation announced by the Prime Minister of the Step of the House. Before I arrive at this, I would like to highlight the very substantial dimension of the draft law that fully reforms the legislative framework of the National School of Judiciary, both in terms of its organisation and function and in terms of how to train and train future and active judges. There is no doubt that the education and training of judges is a fundamental precondition for the quality and the time for justice. Judges should always be well informed of the legislative and legal developments in Greece and abroad, but also of issues of more general interest that concern justice. To date, the organisation of the School of Judges, due to the many legislative changes, was based on a fragmented framework with limited educational methods and without the necessary broadness of the objects taught that the complex function of the judge requires. That's a change. This bill is progressing towards structural changes, in a new system of training and training directors, in the quality of the positions of responsibility in the new school's operational organisation, in the redeployment of material and courses, in the innovative adjustment of the two stages of training in the school, with emphasis on the practical orientation of student education, in the definition of four training courses for active judicial officers, in the introduction of special weights to the creation of working groups, in the school's capacity to organise international training exchanges of judicial officers and in the process of teaching staff through the training trainers which is an international training practice. I'm going to the second reason of my position, which is indicative of the new educational philosophy that runs the bill. As you know, a few days ago the Prime Minister announced the National Action Plan to protect children against sexual abuse and exploitation. This is an integrated protection framework to prevent and tackle child abuse. Every day, judges and prosecutors contact children-crimes of sexual abuse. The management of these cases is so delicate and sensitive that it requires an increased degree of specific education and training in this area. The aim is to ensure that children who are victims of sexual abuse have the necessary information, support and protection when participating in the criminal proceedings and that they are recognised and treated with respect and sensitivity to any contact with the relevant victim support services or justice. On this occasion, in the framework of the National Action Plan, I proposed to the Minister and the State Secretary that the protection of incapacity and the friendly procedures of justice to the child should be integrated into the training of judges as an additional theme. I am very pleased that they have fully responded to this proposal by adding this provision to Article 42, namely the protection of minors and child-friendly justice as a separate educational subject. In fact, it is indicative of their sensitivity that they have taken a step further, that is to say, the subject of this regular training programme. I also consider it necessary to refer to another priority of the national action plan not included in this law, but with great satisfaction to see it implemented thanks to the excellent work of the Ministry. And this is no other than the "Home of the Child", which starts to function for the first time in Athens as a specially designed hearing area for children, a child-friendly child, where the only judicial examination-deposit of the child-birth is conducted. The "Home of the Child" function expected to start in other cities of Greece is a proposal of the national action plan implemented with the coordinated efforts of the Ministry and it is very encouraging to see the project proposals implemented at both institutional and operational level. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the national action plan is a great opportunity for the country to act coordinatedly against child abuse. This bill is also a great opportunity for the country to raise the level of education of Greek judges and prosecutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u164	We also thank you for keeping time. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy is called to Stepma and I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA – Progressive Alliance, Mr. Xanthoopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we all understand that the proper and effective functioning of justice is a basic prerequisite, not only for the functioning of the culture and democracy, but also for the economic development of the country and for addressing modern social and economic needs and problems. Often, we are talking about the need to speed up the administration of justice, but we should not overlook the need for qualitative upgrading. Citizens are not only asking for quick, but also good and fair decisions and no doubt for the quality upgrade is a decisive role for the National School of Judiciary. For this reason, this draft law, which is the greatest reform in judicial education since the establishment of the National School of Judges twenty-seven years ago, is of particular importance and value. This is a draft law drawn up on the basis of the finding of the Legislative Committee, which was set up in order to fully reform the legislative framework, both in terms of the organisation and functioning of a school, and in terms of how to select, train and train future and active judicial officers. This draft law takes another step forward to improve justice. It seeks to develop justice, create appropriate supplies to modern judges with morality and faith in democracy. We have to make it clear that the level of our judges is high. But we must keep it, adapt it to modern needs and conditions by raising it even higher. We trust the Greek judges. Previous government officials criticised how they operate and, even today, anti-population officials underestimated the quality of justice. They themselves, of course, did not have time to do much and upgrade it in the years of their governance. Ladies and gentlemen, the National School of Justice is a crucial institution for justice, a institution that is in the third decade of its operation and is in a new era of challenges, a time in which it must provide adequate training and training to new judiciary officials, training in active people, but also introducing innovations that will strengthen justice and focus on addressing modern challenges. This draft law provides for the financing of the National School of Judiciary Officers from the Recovery Fund. This is undoubtedly a significant support for the school's financial resources that will strengthen its operation. It is also worth mentioning the broadening of the responsibilities of the board of directors, the Director-General and the training and training managers of all directions, as well as the school's curricula provided for in this draft law, legislative intervention which promotes the specialisation of competences with a view to better functioning of the school, as well as better monitoring of the European Union's legislative work, the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights. The introductory competition now has three stages and in the first it becomes necessary to have a good knowledge of a foreign language. The introduction of the foreign language was not only proposed because it constitutes an important qualification for the modern Greek judge, it was also proposed for one more important reason: our country belongs to the great European family and has an active presence in the institutions of Europe, such as the European Court of Human Rights. These institutions use more than one language for internal and external communication, which requires good knowledge of foreign languages by both judges and active participation in procedures, as well as monitoring developments. I cannot understand the reactions to the provision of this draft law. Subsequently, the successors of the first stage participate in the second concerning the written examination and finally in the third concerning the oral examination. At this point, I must focus on changing the percentage that is formed in the final grade. In particular, it changes the 85/100 in writing and 15/100 in orals and now forms 75/100 and 25/100 respectively, in accordance with the amendment tabled a moment ago. The judge is the man who has an influence on a large number of people around him. The way in which he exposes his knowledge, judgment and the way he performs his duties affects public opinion. For this reason, since the first time the candidate has been introduced, his or her personality, but also his or her will and his ability to operate in public with other people, with the sole aim of properly giving justice. Another point I would like to focus on is that for the first time four training courses are set for the current judicial officers. These are eight days of seminars in eight years, allowing judges to participate, if they so wish, in training seminars on the organization and administration of courts, judicial communication, judicial ethics and economic law. I think that we should all be in agreement here, as training is an essential element in the qualitative upgrading of justice. After all, this is imposed by the very nature of the work of a judge who is complex, complex and requires adaptation to new data and developments. In addition, the development of European Union law, the current trends in case law, the problems of the procedural and penal system and the application of new technologies, in particular by using computer and artificial intelligence, are also included. I could also not omit the prediction that all the procedures, which relate to both pre-introductory and continuing education, are being carried out electronically, which is another step in the digitisation of justice, as is an important step in the e-introduction plan announced a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we are, of course, faced with another reform step towards the education and training of our judges, the organisation and functioning of the National School of Judges. The National School of Judges is reformed, specializes and upgrades its curriculum, while focusing on the individuality of the judge. It is now called upon to operate with new data from the challenges that concern society itself, shaping the space for the functioning of Greek justice in the years to come. It is a step important, but it cannot be the only one, and it is not enough. Other steps need to be taken and I am sure that next time we will open up the debate on another reform in the judiciary that includes objective and pragmatic development, evaluation and disciplinary control of judicial officers. So the effort to strengthen justice continues and we must all take a stand not by sterile refusal, but by constructive criticism and suggestions, because the objective is common and the effort must be shared for a modern, efficient, independent and impartial justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr Nicolakopoulou, and respect for the time. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment, 'Fair Development and regulation of more specific issues of liberation'. The Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Every debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is also of social and scientific interest, and of course it is taking place in a climate of consensus and converging, but it is sufficient for an amendment by Mrs Kerameus together with the Ministry to show the real dimensions and real contradictions. I'll start with the bill myself. It is a common place that justice is essentially the 'ultimum refugium', the last refuge for the citizen, primarily against state arbitraryism and, secondly, the disagreements he has in the context of social coexistence. Justice is an integral part of the political system, it is a guide to progress in a society, and it also crystallises the social dynamics of a society. A pillar of the judiciary is the judges. And it goes without saying that we all have a great deal of interest in the quality of the judges and, of course, in the productive school of judges, which is the National School of Judges, the reform of which we are discussing today. I want to make a point. The choices you make at the Ministry will give us time and that is why they should have the consent of all of us, and that is why it must be as much of a result of convergence and cooperation as possible, precisely because they aim to produce better judges and they will have the effect over a period of time where none of us will be part of this Chamber. We are legitimate as SYRIZA that we are interested in the functioning of the School of Judges not only from our institutional function, but also because of the results that we have achieved and which we have testified as SYRIZA as government. We are the ones who increased the number of candidates. We are the ones who have enacted the direction of the peacekeepers, and the government is right to do so. The procedure followed has had positive results, because the Minister has also effectively abolished this unscientific and irrational provision specifying that 10% will be recorded at the first level of the judges. No one excludes the excellent judges from being less or more than 10% and this corset was something that you did quite rightly and withdrew. Obviously, the monitoring certificate, which is incorporated into the file of the judges, had no reason to say so, because it followed and affected the development of the judge, perhaps without being an institutionalised procedure. You have included the possibility for judges to be held in the Region of Thessaloniki as well. You accepted the comments of the Association of Administrative Judges and now the lessons in this direction will be not introductory terms, but after the first half. All of these are very positive choices which we have also supported and supported and proposed, not only us, but also the majority of the opposition, but also the judiciary associations. I must point out, however, our original reservation, because precisely the judges we produce as a Greek state are the rulers and in addition to the excellent quality they have to have in the field of science, they must also have a sense of socialism. They are not one-way judges, they are judges of total standing. I draw from the report by the founding law of the National School of Judiciary, which states that judges must be subject to judicial vigilance and sensitivity, where the judge is an arbitrator of social conflicts and a guarantor and an interpreter of law, where the state is responsible for the formation of the judge's scientific and empirical background. The report concludes with one point: "The National School of Judges is not a Postgraduate University Institute. It is a professional school for the training of judges.’ In my opinion, therefore, the rapporteur's report highlights the way in which we should go. And what we have proposed from the very beginning, which is a deficit in the context of the proposed change in the framework of the National School of Judges, is that it is actually being promoted, that there is an acceleration in the training of judges who are involved only in legal science. I'm reappearing to all the tones that the judges of the National School of Judges are extremely qualified. What we have to take care of as a legislative body is that we have a ground in society, that we invent and institutionalise parallel teaching activities along with the teaching of purely legal subjects. I suggested something, I said a thought out loud to the committee, an experience - let us say - from the CECH would be useful to break stereotypes and to get these people to come too close to a large part of the legal material they will be called upon to process in the future. The judge must understand the dynamics of society, social and trade union struggles. Judging a strike as illegal and abusive, without entering into the dynamics of strike and confrontation, and what is at stake in it, is a dry legal approach that dehydrates the legality of its social function. In other words, there are parameters which the legislature must employ, which must be introduced into the training of Greek judges. They are factors which will enable the judge to understand very well the social dynamics and parameters of the decisions he will make. So in this sense we first come to adopt the proposals of the Minister, which are in a positive direction and which we shall be voting in favour of. With regard to today's procedure and Amendment No 1160/103/12-2021, we are once again following another episode in the order of accidental and misrepresentation. There is an amendment with three articles, of which everyone has a different area and has a different story to tell. The first article therefore talks about the deadline for the conversion of lifelong learning centres, which expired at the end of the year and is extended until 31-3-2022. It's positive, no doubt. First, it was sloppy, it was sloppy, it was unbelievable, when a while ago you set the end date to 31-12-2021? We have exercised parliamentary control. We as SYRIZA Members have tabled a question and said that behind this very tight deadline, in which it is impossible for the majority of lifelong learning centres to respond one and two, which are essentially small businesses, are attempting to shrink the market dramatically for the benefit of the large lifelong learning centres. So you are coming today and you are amending - and you are right to do - the deadline by 31 March. And you have to tell us whether it was sloppy and sloppy and you understand it or even worse, you have tried to transfer a large part of the professional activity to the very large offices, to the very large businesses, we have reacted to both politically and socially and now you are collecting them and bringing an amendment. Therefore, you are drawing this amendment, you are attaching it to Article 2 of this amendment, where it says that it is possible to extend cleanliness, disinfection, guarding the OHIM buildings and invoke the legislative act from 14-320. We are, then, in December 2021 and you call for a legislative act in March 2020 and here, to say the urgency and that the legitimate procedures of the competitions should not be followed? What is this which has been dominating for two years in the country and you have been surprised and invoked the March 2020 legislative act to prolong the presence of those people to whom you have essentially granted this procedure? How much more provocative will be when invoking the sudden and urgent process so that people themselves remain and these conventions extended? Honestly, you understand that, in principle alone, this thing cannot be accepted. I shall also use part of my secondary speech, Madam President, to refer to the main theme of this amendment, which is no more than Article 3, which speaks of the compulsoryity of schooling in kindergarten, primary and high school. To get to know each other, it goes without saying that children have to go to school. School is not just a learning process, it's a socialisation process, it's an identity forged process. Therefore, it is inconceivable that the child should not go to school. Secondly, fortunately these parents are few who, for pandemic reasons and why they take the view that the child should not wear a mask or do self-diagnostic tests do not send the child to school. But, even if they are few, a solution will have to be found. So what solution do you bring? You bring in a horizontal arrangement that brought together the fires of counter-population, because it is about the law and the wrongs. We know the school leak is at a high rate. Mr Pafilis identified it as 11% and mainly concerned groups which have a social integration problem. That's the reality. And under the pretext of pandemic, for which we all agree that we must deal directly, introduce a provision with a horizontal arrangement, threatening two years. With two years you're equating it with the illegal violence, with the article 330 of the Criminal Code. Isn't there a proportionality? That is why I say that as many attempts as you do, this logic that passes through you, the strictening of sentences and the treatment of social problems by convicting and criminal law does not allow you to sanctify. As I said to the Minister, we could withdraw it and have a debate, because we are all prepared to find the best solution. For example, in the previous Criminal Code it was a pitiful character. You want to tighten her up? Put social work on. Up to two years in prison? Is there no analogy? Isn't there any sense of the punishing character of this sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u168	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u169	You will do so, Minister, but it is impressive that you have a criminal treatment for every social problem. We repeat that it is indeed a problem and tragic people who have irrational views of depriving their children of schooling, but you do not raise the issue in Parliament to say our views and to contribute. You are bringing us an amendment that is sliding with two amendments to unrelated objects and you are essentially creating a uniform penalty for all people who do not fall under the same rule. As you can see, this kind of legislation, this kind of approach and this kind of tactic cannot be unanswered. We have nothing to do with the people who are against rationalization. We on the left are primarily children of the right. It is obvious that vaccines and the National Health System are the only defences we have as a society against the virus. With these practices and procedures, you are basically feeding the reactions and the wave of irrationalism, and above all you are blamed for the right and wrongful responsibility which I do not know how to raise as a society. In this sense, therefore, we call again for this amendment to be withdrawn. Although it has, as I have said, a positive extension to lifelong learning centre, we cannot vote in favour of it. But you withdraw Article 3 and quickly bring it to a consultation to place the parties and find the best solution, so that social peace is not faded and the children can go to school, but above all not to pay innocents for this horizontal criminal treatment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantinidis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President, as well as the representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the weaknesses and malfunctions of the institution have been sufficient in yet another draft law on justice. They are the ones that, while all the wings of Parliament have recorded them and agreed over time, the Greek state has not yet managed to deal with them actively and effectively. They are the ones that boldly attempt to improve step by step, the current government and the political leadership of the responsible and speeding up the Ministry with areas both in the key codes of justice that refer to the applicable and judiciary, as well as in the operational and service fields by introducing new institutions, creating modern structures and installing and disposing of users and operators of multi-numerical media services. Overall, all these interventions reach the dual objective of the rapid and qualitative administration of justice. In this time-consuming effort, therefore, the National School of Judiciary, an institution which has already spent two decades in operation and is already in the third, has a substantial contribution to the process of staffing the judiciary, but also to the training of active judges. Like any organisation, however, it must evolve and modernise. So the National Judiciary must adapt to the new data and the rapidly changing environment. And let us not forget that the School of Judges, for us at least the North Elders, is a conquest towards the central centre, and we therefore want and want to be constantly upgraded. They are therefore trying to extend the powers of the administrative bodies and those responsible for the educational and educational objects of the school, which is increasing the body's self-sufficiency, the particular importance attached to the monitoring of the European Union's legislative work, the case law of the Court of Justice and the European Court of Justice of Human Rights, the start of operation for the first time in the direction of the peacekeepers - very important section in the face of the growing material of the cases dealt with at this level of competence - and the participation in the introductory competition of candidates who are in the capacity of the court or the member of the Legal Council of the State or of the judiciary with a diploma in law, who have completed a three-year term of office. In this respect, in relation to the limits and conditions for participation in this competitive procedure, there is a right to participate in those who did not exceed the 40th year of their age, which is in line with the need, in the rule of service in this House. Minister, we have tabled an amendment concerning the police officers, the officers from the productive schools of the police and the officers who serve in this House who perform special duties in the Greek police, but also the judiciary officers, so that they too, under the same conditions, are entitled to a degree in law, and since they have completed a three-year term in this position in view of the fact that this constitutes a presumption of involvement in the process of giving justice to the same right to participate in the competitive process. To change further, ladies and gentlemen, it is also introduced into the procedure for examining foreign language in the first year and in a separate procedure, with tenderers being examined in common for all foreign languages. I also said in the debate in committee that perhaps in the future we could see a process of obtaining competence in an intangible time by a certified body, in order not to burden the competitive process with this separate part, but by recognising the great importance of a satisfactory knowledge of one or more foreign languages by our judges. Furthermore, the forecasts are also important for the increased importance of the student training in the practical section, for the continuing training and regular training of the active judicial officers, for the implementation of exceptional training programmes for judges of all branches and all grades, which are called upon to implement new regulations with urgency, but also for the training of trainers, in accordance with the European network of exchanges of information between the bodies providing judicial training. We have all agreed, ladies and gentlemen, on the importance of the excellent and comprehensive training of judges, who are undoubtedly the foundation of the legal structure. We have all agreed that the state should be able to monitor training seminars and programmes for lifelong training in view of the country's poor ranking in the relevant EU Jostice Scoreboard table lately, as was the case with the figures made by the Minister during the debate. We must therefore act immediately in this direction, away from strangles and introverted approaches. To conclude, I would like to point out the creative attitude of most of the parties that met the Minister's response and resulted in several improvements being included in the final legislative text, which, apparently, will be widely accepted. Congratulations, everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u173	The law bills of the Ministry of Justice come with a lot of frequency. As far as we remember, there have never been so many bills in so short a time. Is it true, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u174	It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u175	It is. So those that come with great frequency not only in the area of justice, but in all areas - bombing literally! - are part of a single strategy for which the other parties are not talking, but are turning around because they are precisely in agreement with this single strategy. What's the title of the strategy? More efficient adaptation of all sectors - and of course even justice - to the service of profitability of major business groups. I would say that Mr Kotsire was honest, of course he said it elegantly - as PASOK said some mysterious things earlier - that it is an adaptation to modern economic conditions. So what do we mean? What are modern economic conditions? It is the complete domination of capitalism, it is the complete domination of capital and it is what it requires today. You'll hear them and then go out and contradict me if it's so or if it isn't. Other if you disagree. Okay? To be honest and to be honest. And if you were honest, you know what you'd say? You would say: yes, we say that it is the engine of the economy, which will bring growth, which will bring the well-paid jobs of unemployment - two hundred hundred and three hundred in fact - that is exactly why we are making these changes too, so that they can liberate, leave all the weights to win more. But you don't. This is about improving the quality of justice. And we're not talking with a chip, we're talking with evidence. He says the government and we'll probably hear it - I don't know if we'll hear it from the Minister, but we've heard it - you're all saying that we have to deal with delays in the administration of justice. No one can argue because the cosmopolitan is hanged and awaits decisions two and three years. But is that so? There is an account already of the government's work and yours and the previous ones, so I don't blame them. What was the government's legislative work so far and who serves? First, the establishment of special chambers in the courts. They call them luxurious. Who are they serving? The investments, the business groups, make all these decisions quickly. While a worker can hang two and three years to get a compensation, the investment must be made immediately! There it is! The second issue. The world is, of course, waiting, but various forms of private mediation are being established, which you have all advertised in here, the out-of-court resolution of disputes. And we simply ask you people to understand: When we go to such an out-of-court dispute resolution in all areas - you went to criminal now, too, to conciliation - who is the strongest and who is the weakest? The one with the money. He goes a company with a simple man and necessarily, except for the exception, he will be subject to the conditions that this company and the economic power will give him. Mergers are being promoted, the abolition of courts, the conversion of the administration of courts in order to resemble the administration of large companies. And then here you make reasons for the justice that must be for everyone and turn it into one of these measures, in terms of management. Is it or isn't it? You have passed this, you have voted for it. Of all this, it turns out that what your government burns - and it is normal - but also the others who hide -structuralism, that is, normally - is that the profitability of business groups needs to be served, yes or no? And here you celebrate, Mr. Constantinidis, and others like you, this is not a personal matter, for the funding it has from the Recovery Fund, of course, will have funding. What for? Because the Recovery Fund, as you know, has thirteen conditions to finance 90% of the major business groups and says that any obstacles need to be removed, in the field of justice too, so that money can go to the big business groups and people can be asked to pay, because nothing is free from your great European Union. Just the opposite! This is also the direction of the European Union - is it not, gentlemen, of SYRIZA? - to which New Democracy and KINAL agree. Of course, the KINAL now eyewitness said he was voting for it. It's his right, we're judging. This is the one aspect which concerns the creation of a paradise of uncontrolled entrepreneurship, that is to say, for large business groups, not for small ones, and the other is the delay of justice and of popular problems. So let's see what the problems exist and justice is slowing down. First, is there a problem of state funding, yes or no? There is. You're giving more money? Oh, no. Secondly, does it need to upgrade and extend the buildings infrastructure and the technical equipment of the courts, yes or no? That's why he says nothing, not just this bill, your policy as a whole? No, because these are about mass trials, that is to say, the many trials and decisions of ordinary people, workers and people's bodies. Thirdly, we went tour all the courts, direct tours and not communists. What did they put us first? Mass recruitment of judges with fully regulated labour and insurance rights. Do you do? Oh, no. It's too bad! You think you're in 1950. Have you been to the office for one time? If you went, what did you see? You get caught sneezing from the files that are there and that people can't objectively work on whatever they do. What else did all the governments do? Precise justice with new procedural burdens and other obstacles that cannot be tolerated and so many people do not even go to the courts for things they are entitled to do and which they should claim, because they cannot. Exact justice, unless you tell us you'd make it cheap. We don't expect that. What do you pursue with the bill? You seek - everything that has been done throughout the public sector and from PASOK in the past and from SYRIZA, despite the fact that it 'forms' otherwise - to build a new generation of judges and civil servants, which will act more effectively and more quickly to serve the interests of capital. You want to take out puppies who, as they were saying, are not enough to implement but must agree with the anti-popular, barbaric - in fact - politics. This has been done in all areas, in all the public sector, for public administration officials - we have said it before - at universities, this is happening everywhere. All sectors are all subject to business interests. They're doing research, and what's going to happen? Will business groups take it and sell it tomorrow, as the vaccines sell, why AstraZeneca, for example, who is it? It's Oxford's, isn't it? How many billions? Who's doing this job? Students and researchers are doing it. Where do you have it? You make it available to the service of monopolies, which are literally rampant all mankind, and which care for the death that you scatter every day in the face, for example, of pandemic and not only. You also want more suffocating control of both the current judges and within the school - I will say a few words below - so that they do not escape the service of the dominant anti-grassroots policy. How is that possible? Why can someone tell us: What does this have to do with the Judiciary School? First, are there changes in the school organisation? They can. Why, really, are you taking out and degrading the judiciary associations from the administration of the Judiciary School? Why? It's a question. Second, education. Thirdly, with matter and educational objects. Fourthly, with the development and career of judges and the ranking of judges. Also - and this is very serious in our view, even though we have no illusion - why do you require legal knowledge and not general knowledge? One - I don't want to say his name - who has made the Minister of Justice in a monumental decision that came out of the Piraeus court has sued an employer at the union that had been given notice and wrote that the employer is exploiting the workers - has sued for slandering and that particular judge - we know what is happening in Piraeus - has condemned the union. Of course, then the decision has been taken. And when I told a minister, you know what he said to me? It's a tragedy, and I regret supporting the Judiciary, because the judge can't stand trial with the letter of the law, ladies and gentlemen. Because if he tried with the letter of the law, half the Greeks would be in prison today, but he must also take some social dimensions into account. Fifth, the institution of the general evaluation. And the institution of evaluation, if anyone ties it up together, understands exactly what they are going to do: ideological manipulation, political manipulation - I will say below - and, of course, in a sense, terrorism. "If you want to go up, you'll do these. If you do not want, we will put you less - if necessary - or we will judge you otherwise in orals." You even say that it should be adapted to international standards so that they are the defenders of the national economy and social peace. Let's get you up here. What does "national economy" mean? It's the economy of Greece, we agree. However, in the economy of Greece there are those who produce and steal wealth. Who are they producing? The vast majority of the population. Please give me two minutes from my denture. Who are those who fruit 65% of GDP at least and have incredible profits coming out of the work of the workers? It's the few. So in the national economy it is some who contribute with their sweat and blood - many times and their lives the same - and others are living in the fat and wealth just from the sweat and blood of other workers. So what do you mean? Secondly, are you saying'social peace'? What do you think? Lascat number two? What do you mean? In society, whatever you say, even homeless economists and philosophers say that there are class contradictions and order struggles. Marx said he didn't recognize the class struggle, he didn't invent it. The bourgeois philosophers invented it. And so is it. There are conflicting interests. To get the employer out, he has to take advantage of the worker, and the worker has to fight for something more. So what do you mean,'social peace'? Submission, slavery modern, with two hundred and two-and-a-half times, or do not exist in employers and even in large groups that have escaped from every limit and a pandemic. Who pays at the pandemic? The worker, the people as a whole. Who's the treasurer? Pharmaceutical companies, other companies, private companies in health, without shame! You do not oblige them to contribute themselves. Even a top executive of yours - not to say his name - said to you: let them put something too. Of course not. And we have the programs to finish here. This is where it turns out. What's he saying? Administration and organisation of courts. The titles of training programs at Judges' School, that's what I mean. What does he mean? Changes in order for justice to respond to the role that has been mentioned above, that is to say, to promote the capital support policy as better and more quickly as possible. Secondly, this is a clear-cut emphasis on economic law, on the capital market, on energy. What's this? It's your policy. You want to train them, support, for example, the 'green' energy that is green - and black - to bring enormous profits to business groups. Capital market. Awesome. All workers, ladies and gentlemen, are in court on the capital market. Isn't that right? It's ironic. Such seminars are carried out by them, i.e. the functioning of the capitalist economy and support for this policy and capital investment and deepening the law of the European Union, this hell that the European peoples live together. Our position is well known for the role of civil justice and its so-called independence. And why don't some politicians, not to say a little bit of a talk, do they attack us like they don't know what we're saying, do we want to tell them: will they squeeze us to ask for a justice for the people and not for a few? Will we hide our position that we need to overthrow this system that some are kings and others are slaves? Because that's the way it is. I'm transporting them so there's no theoretical mix-up. I will say two simple examples. I won't do analyses. Yannis Delis said it and more scientific and well. So-called independent justice, why is it independent? What's he going to do? What is a judge to apply, regardless of whether he agrees to be fair or unfair? It will come to implement the anti-population policy which is passed in the House, of course, but which the government is pushing forward. Even if they understand what scope they really have to make a fair decision? Here's a typical example. Listen, the "mother" of Hatzidakis and New Democracy, the trade union law. A business worker is fired, says it's illegal, resorts to court. Listen, atheophobics. He has the burden of proof by the worker with seven, five, and nine hundred that the company is alive, that they are profitable and that he poorly fired him. So tell us what the judge will do? The poor worker what he's gonna do? Is he gonna put a study office on? Where's he gonna get that money? Because that evidence doesn't come out easy or out of the papers. You're making these monsters. What's he gonna say? That's the law you voted for. So what independent justice? 99% of strikes come illegal. It's good. But no one's right? No one, but no one has any of these strikes? It's an order based on the law, but also on the interpretation of the law, so they can be appended. So it's not independent. It depends on the anti-grass legal framework. Secondly, who appoints the Presidents and the supreme bodies of the courts? The government in question. You SYRIZA didn't change it, you said things. You kept it because it suited you. Yes, sir. But why does the government keep these? Because they form the most important case law. And you have passed the pilot trial concerning all areas: civil, administrative and criminal. What does that mean? Serious cases are judged by the supreme courts and create case-law. So what independent are you telling us about? Tell us. What independent justice? Why do you not accept the proposal made by all the judiciary associations or at least most, to be precise, that the highest justice should be elected by the judges. Just for that, to have a suffocating check, indirect or direct, beyond bright exceptions that may exist. There are, of course, judges who react and who do not have the opportunity many times, because they will be accused. They're enough, they're not too few. We say, then, that history has proved - and to read it well and not backwards, not just the old one and the recent one - that the struggles of the people have often misused anti-linguistic laws and thrown them into garbage. And now it is: The 'COSCO' strike and the delinquency strike have misused the Legislative Terminal of Hatzidakis and they will use it along the way. In this fight we also call on the judiciary officials who live and understand - those who are - to join the working people's movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. It is now up to the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Besiropoulos, to take up his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government has shown us that it knows how to claim structured and, above all, efficiently. It was confirmed after yesterday's ECOFIN decisions allowing our country to introduce reduced VAT rates from 2025. According to the ECOFIN Decision Greece permanently reserves the option of applying reduced 30% VAT rates to the Aegean islands. The possibility is to apply reduced VAT rates to agricultural machinery, as well as to cotton, to solar panels, baby diapers, surgical masks, live streaming services. The possibility of exempting VAT on primary items and services of essential importance and on medical equipment in cases of extremes and disasters is provided. The possibility of exempting VAT on wheelchairs is also provided. This development is the result of coordinated efforts and negotiations of our Government. The result of an effort of two and a half years that has been successful and opens up new development horizons for our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to refer to the provisions of Amendment No 1159 and a specific 102 tabled by the Ministry of Finance, which amends, updates and improves the existing institutional framework for state aid. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first government to create a modern and efficient institutional framework for state aid for natural disasters and natural disasters, aimed at a clear and automated framework for compensation for professionals, citizens and businesses, as well as for restoring the areas affected. Our aim is to make this framework fully operational and this objective serves the content of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance. Article 1 of the amendment amends paragraph 3 of Article 4 of Law 4797/2021 on the grant for damages. By the provision to be voted on: Firstly, the scope of the damage coverage from the State Aid Act is clarified and, secondly, the issues of overlapping the State Aid Framework are regulated by the housing aid framework. In particular, it ensures more efficient completion of the procedures both of the Ministry of Finance grant and of the granting of housing assistance from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Provision is also made for retroactive effect of the provision in order to clarify the scope of the grant and in the case of fires in summer 2021 and the earthquake of 27 September 2021 in Crete, for which aid has been granted against housing aid and for the grant. Article 2 introduces a new general scheme for the granting of first aid to enterprises against the grant of Law 4797/2021 after natural disasters. In particular, there is provision for first aid for direct business support, with the aim of addressing the adverse effects of natural disasters immediately, by amending paragraph 1 of Article 6 of the State Aid Act, as regards delimiting its scope for areas delimited or declared to be in emergency need. Article 3 of the amendment relates to improvements made in the regulatory framework for the process of granting enterprises and non-profit-making bodies affected by natural disasters. The State Aid Directorate will henceforth forward the relevant file to the Ministry of Finance's Directorate-General for Finance, which will clear and pay the beneficiaries by deducting the amount of the advance and the first grant aid against a grant granted in accordance with Articles 4 and 6 of the State Aid Act. At the same time, Article 4 of the Amendment amends paragraph 5 of Article 8 of Law No 4797/2021 as regards the amount of the first aid, deducted from the final amount paid and the necessary legal improvements are made to the existing provisions of Article 8 in respect of the advance payment procedure against the grant. Article 5 of the amendment sets out the procedure for granting first aid to enterprises and non-profit-making bodies affected by natural disasters in the standards of regulations adopted to deal with the consequences of summer fires and the earthquake of 27 September 2021 in Crete. In other words, an automated procedure for granting first aid will apply, as was the case in both cases. Article 6 provides for the possibility of paying a grant due to extensive losses on plant production and on natural persons who are not primarily agricultural farmers, but who hold farms. The condition is that farmers have a single payment declaration in the Integrated Control Management System and that they have fulfilled the obligation to pay the special insurance contribution to the ELGA. Article 7 establishes a new special procedure for the grant of agricultural holdings due to losses on plant production means such as tree crops and vines in cases where such losses are not covered by the ELGA, and provides for the possibility of advance payments. In practice this means that the estimates and verification of the data for the beneficiaries are carried out by the ELGA, which will send the Ministry of Finance the necessary statements for the adoption of the grant or advance decisions and for the payment of the beneficiaries. This new procedure is adapted to the specificities of these damages, taking into account the facts available from the ELGA, the experience and the specialisation of its members. Article 8 provides for the strengthening and expansion of the role of the Government's Committee on State Aid, which will coordinate the work of restoring and restoring public infrastructure and projects after theories. The same targeting is reflected in Article 9, which extends and strengthens the responsibilities of the Regional Coordinator of State Aid in coordinating the process of assessing and recording damage to public infrastructures by natural disasters. Article 10 of the amendment establishes the possibility of setting up State Aid Committees and at central level, by decision of the Minister of Finance, in order to strengthen the work of the State Aid Committees set up in regional units. Article 11 provides for the extension of the use of the arogi.gov.gr digital platform to grant first aid. At the same time, a transitional procedure is introduced to deal with cases where damage to buildings has already been recorded and assessed by the State Aid Committees. In particular, it is foreseen that damage to buildings, which have been recorded and assessed by the State Aid Committees in the context of the assessment and recording of damages by natural disasters that have occurred before 1 May 2021, may be covered by the damage subsidy paid to beneficiaries in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7 of the State Aid Act. Articles 12 and 13 introduce a new general rule on the provision of first housing assistance to owners of buildings affected by natural disasters, as was the case in the summer fires and the earthquake of 27 September 2021 in Crete. It is noted that the aid for first aid is duty-free, irrevocable and incompatible with the hands of the public or third parties, is not subject to any reservation, fee or contribution, it is not bound and it is not netted with established debts to the tax administration, public and credit institutions. It is also foreseen that the provision will have retroactive effect in order to be able to join this arrangement and those affected by other disasters that have caused significant and extensive damage. Article 14 lays down the relevant procedures for granting first aid for housing assistance to owners of buildings affected by natural disasters. Article 15 of the amendment extends the deadline for the examination by the competent committee of requests for seismic private property owners located within the approved orbital plan to the positions of ‘Rachi’ and ‘Mahala’ Malesina Fthiotida until 31 January 2022. In this way, the time necessary for the issue of the relevant concessions of the beneficiaries is given. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of the amendment meets all the conditions for broad cross-party support. In any case, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, listening to the needs of society, updates and improves whenever necessary the existing institutional framework of state aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Gentlemen of the Ministry, what we are discussing today, because a well-organised School of Judges is the incubator for tomorrow's representatives and not representatives - it is the importance of the - Themidas, the divine trial. 'Crisis', by'signemium', I plan, I organize. However, what the President of the Greek Solution said to you, Mr. Velopoulos, "the just thing, not what, or the Crittoon, is." "Law is nothing else," Plato said, "within the law of the mighty." Why does public opinion say that, Minister, today? Because the judiciary's representative is not being mocked, has no sense of osmosis, does not have the code and communication with the sense of common law. Because it loses contact with the environment and society, which changes, is mutated according to the circumstances. It is a good thing to specialize in court officers. It's working in some states. When the judge, for example, is in charge of traffic accidents, if he is specialised in this area, this is a positive sign, more arrows have in his patron to develop this ability. But Mr Tsiaras, who is now leaving the Chamber, should make other areas if we want to have a proper functioning of the National Court School, which was set up in 1994. Since the first year - I read the history of the National School of Judges - based in the co-chair, Thessaloniki, has put conferences and seminars for students to train. That's very good. But, in the context we are discussing today, he is not just a student, gentlemen, tomorrow's representative of the House. They're what professors we want at the School of Judges in Thessaloniki. Are they convinced? Are they contagious? Do they have contact with society? Leave it to me and to the legal sciences. It is incomprehensible - we brought it as a Greek Solution and no party took a stand straight towards the Greek people who have to see it in the eye - that in February 2020 at the School of Judges in Thessaloniki there was a text of training by the professors of judges to the new inhabited representatives of Themida, the new judges who said: "Now that you go out, support the banks, put some lewdness to the subjects, namely the borrowers, in order not to transfer citizens' tax against credit institutions"! Do you realize what orders we're talking about? Does this have a social impact, does it have a social root in the social strata? Is the professor of the people's representative in this case? Oh, no! He is a representative of certain oligarchal credit institutions. Does people lose their trust? What does people say when they're being tried with a bank? He won't make an acquittal for the borrower. In favor of the bank it will work! And all this was done in the light of the law of Katseli on the debts in the Judiciary School. The Minister of Justice admitted it. We can't, he says, interfere with the judiciary. One did not have the political breeze, the political time - at least the policy with 'h' and 'h' - to condemn this fact. What about a judge? It is not, gentlemen, only predictable that the'responsibility' of the law will be within it. It's about to be human. So the aim of the National Judiciary, which has to do with society, is the presence of the National School to have a two-tier job, which means that I take out the judge and the judiciary, who must have a horizon in his procedural thought, but it must be a personality that can be judged impartial, without being threatened by anyone and making a right decision. This judge will attend seminars to get acquainted with crime, with various social manifestations, about how the financial system works, to have knowledge. But there is also something else within the meaning of the judge, who must not be dispersed in our attention, that the judge should also watch the art, culture and letters. Why does he say that? Because the judge who's leaving the courtroom must be, gentlemen, an intellectual. Whee and alas if it is just a bureaucrat who will make sterile judicial decisions of the verb "similar" without flattering his social sensitivities and not be an intellectual. Then we don't have judges - people. Then we have judges - simulators, cloned, who are simply robots. Nothing else. That is what we need to restore for quick justice today. They cannot say today that professors of legal science - Mr Demetras if I remember well from the Aristotle University - say that even the oral expressions and expressions by politicians are a manipulation of judicial science and the judicial function of the whole matter, because this is also considered an intervention. We cannot interfere with the judicial work. That's why we say fair justice. I have carefully read the interview of the current Vice-President and of the Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors of Mr Pikrammenos. I'll agree. They can't run other aspects of society with a thousand, says Mr. Pikrammenos, and justice runs at a hundred. The best judges, however, for the professors of the School of Judges, are the students who can easily and anonymously judge them through an electronic platform. Why don't you try it, for example? The last legislative framework at the School of Judges founded in 1994 was in 2008. It is certainly an undeniable need for a new legislative framework. Also, as far as the money that students have to receive is whether they are peacekeepers or lawyers with two years - that's not what he says? - or they're administrative officials with a legal degree, it's necessary that they've solved at least - we're not talking about living, housing, food and wages, so that they can intrude to follow. With regard to a 40-fifth limit to 40 years of age, Minister, I do not see the age to determine the sensitivity, the knowledge, the ability and the ability of a judge. How do you put it in age? What is it? Police school to have powers or fire brigade? How do you put that? The foreign language's good. But here even humanitarian sciences could be introduced. It may not be a university school, it may be a specialized school, but it had to do philosophy lessons. Other education, other education. But when you breast-feeding judges with education, you know they'll be non-discriminatory, that they'll be judges above all people in capital. So it's a humanitarian thing the character of the National Judiciary School of Judges has to be reorganized. It must be close to these inhabited representatives of Themida and operate as a greenhouse. However, the greenhouse or incubator needs light. That is why we say that there must be plenty of light on the way the school operates, outside some of the political - party interventions of the individual government. Teachers cannot say that, for simple cases in the world, a thousand five hundred and eighty days need to be spent, because the documents are stacked. And another thing: If the administrative staff do not specialize in this school and in the courts, do not expect the proper functioning of the courts. Because you are a doctor of microbiologist, Mr. Tsiara, to tell you that a major problem in hospitals today, where debt is unthinkable to suppliers, is that doctors were seeing daily medical visitors to haggle consumables instead of serving medical science, and there was no specialization, what English administration say, so that the managers could organise the clinics and hospitals properly. That's why we got there. It is also a matter of administrative expertise. We could say a lot today about the Incubator of the representatives of the Chamber of Judges. But consider the GRECO report, that Greece is the second country in corruption in Europe after Bulgaria. Remember the twenty-five recommendations Greece has against the thirty three recommendations for violations of human rights, for also violations of the ordinary Greek citizen in the pension distribution. Consider the responsibilities regarding Greece's rating, which should have been much higher, if we want to enjoy equilibrium and equilibrium in the United Europe. Can not Denmark have 75 units or Sweden or the average of a deficit democracy is 49, the authoritarian regimes according to Eurobarometer and the International Transparency have 35 and Greece barely has 45! So what is Greece? Lack of democracy exists - clear things - but authoritarian - totalitarian regime is certainly not. It's an average situation. That's what we need to improve. I'm hanging up with the Occupant. It says it all, it contains all this philosophical saying of a stoic philosopher, who says: 'Properly the right-wing does not accept, so neither the law nor the right', that is, 'the straight line does not need to be made of joy, just as the law does not need justice'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. The floor is via Webex, SYRIZA MEP Mr Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. The establishment of the National School of Judges has satisfied a consistent demand from the country's legal world to ensure the best possible training of future judges. Its mission includes, among other things, strengthening the idea of independence of opinion, strengthening democracy and freedom, transferring representations from the country's social and economic life, developing critical capacity in the approach not only of law, but also of social phenomena, teaching the legal word and extending the horizons for spiritual culture through contact with arts and culture. It was, is, is and should continue to be, the creation of modern judges and prosecutors with extended knowledge and skills, so that they fully respond to the ever-changing challenges of the times. A first assumption is that an institutional framework of operation and the curriculum of the National School of Judges must be modernised and improved in order to keep up with modern social conditions. A second admission is that the state's task is to set a credible protection framework for the functioning of justice, strengthen its independence and prevent it from being manipulated, thereby preserving its role as a safe haven for any citizen of independent economic surface or social origin. However, there is also a third assumption: the Government of New Democracy, regardless of the nature of the legislation, always chooses the path of authoritarianity and the refusal of effective consultation. Likewise, in this bill of the Ministry of Justice, the Government decides and orders, amends, baptising "reformation", the framework for the functioning of the National School of Judges, without having regard to the observations of judges and their associations. It goes backwards and dangerous for the functioning and independence of justice interventions and does not care for the storm of reactions of the legal world, even outside borders. It is characteristic that the European Union of Judges, which points to you in a letter to you internationally, is that your legislative initiative for the training of judges is in direct conflict with the acquis followed by other Member States of the Council of Europe. I do not think anyone in this Chamber objects or opposes the need for judges to assess. But with the proposed methodology, a monument of anachronistic and useless degree, it is clear that you want to manipulate judicial power and enforce government choices, no matter what the distinction of powers and democratic conquests in relation to justice. So we are talking today about a bill that the vast majority of judges have already rejected. His rejection is not due to the fact that someone is forging behind a trade union view or a sterile refusal, as you spoke very offensively about the entire judiciary. He has rejected it because a bad bill, which facilitates outside interventions in the judicial process and thus in the independent functioning of justice, has been rejected. With Article 40 you are attempting to introduce an unacceptable method of extra evaluation of judges other than their existing inspection. You are dealing with the judge with suspicion and you are completely unreasonable about the importance of his function, as well as about the difficult circumstances under which he is called upon to manage the daily workload responsibly. You oblige him to attend training seminars for which it will be dealt with in the multi-purpose query system at the end. In the event of a non-concentration of at least 70 in 100, the State as high school of other times obliges the judiciary to repeat the same cycle in subsequent years. Members of the government, as has been rightly pointed out to you, the judge must be judged by what he writes in his decision, in a provision, in an adjunct, and not by a positive answer to 70% of the questions he receives from the seminars. On the pretext of continuing training, which is accepted by the judges themselves, you are cultivating competition, the stress of response, the sense of staffing, the vacancy of calibration and ultimately the service insecurity. Article 20(4) on the rating of applicants is reinforced without serious justification by the 25% oral test factor compared to its corresponding written test, which is 75%. Given the length of the written test and the multiplicity of the subject matter of the examination, in order to establish the scientific adequacy of the candidate, the adjustment of the increase in the weight of the oral examination, except incorrect, is also curious as to the reason for its adoption. In addition, the oral test against the written procedure is even more problematic if one takes into account that the written examinations are carried out with the concealment of the names of the candidates and with common questions for each industry, namely a procedure that ensures transparency and objectivity of the examination, which cannot in any way be or is extremely difficult to ensure in the oral examinations. In Article 17, you are reducing the age limit for admission to the School of Judges. Contrary to what you say, this regulation does not contribute at all to improving the quality of justice and limiting the time required for its award, as it excludes from the office of the judiciary in a number of years' experience and training. This provision is completely inexperienced, primarily for lawyers over thirty-nine to forty-four years old who have already begun their costly and psychologically demanding preparation for the ECHR competitions and will suddenly be called upon to abandon it, with the immediate effect of losing money and time. In conclusion, the reform also continues in Article 22 for the remuneration of the student of the National Court School of Judges. Reduction of remuneration from 70% to 50% of the payroll is out of reality or at least within your reality. The amount of the monthly earnings of the trainees must not only be reduced but must be increased considerably, given that they are trainees who have been invited for one year to leave their permanent residence and to bear the costs of relocation and living elsewhere at the school's headquarters. Today's bill under discussion neither modernises nor improves the functioning of the National School of Judges. Its ultimate purpose is to intervene in the internal justice and to establish a model of timeless repression of the free thinking and independence of Greek judges. The government continues to reform by deregulating and going backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now webex has the floor again, Mr. Lappas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am making a point really with a sad feeling that is flooding me in a level of consciousness and mental mood. The government, and the country, I would say, expected by the European Commission for good legislation. Today's parliamentary performance was stolen by the Treasury with a so-called amendment of an extensive, comprehensive draft law, which comes without the required conditions of parliamentary ethics imposed by the Rules of Procedure, by consultation, by the receipt of copies from the parties, their position and so on. And many times with the tolerance of the Ministry of Justice. So I ask the relevant ministers: can you tell me a bill from your Ministry, Mr. Ministers of Justice, which should have been the beacon and the bright torch - I have told you a hundred times - of good law that you have not accepted the battle of amendments from various ministries? Is this a picture for the Ministry of Finance and for 20 minutes suggesting an amendment to ten, 12, thirteen articles, paragraphs and sub-paragraphs? Is that really an illustration of a good legislature and, in fact, on a day when we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Justice, I would say it is a very important one? It's very important. After the Criminal Codes it is the most important of the thirteen or fourteen bills brought by your Ministry in the last two and a half years. I'm recording it and stress it with grief. One of this. Secondly, it is a big, very serious matter, because it is about justice and I have also told the committees - I repeat it now - that justice is the most critical of all the manifestations of social life. This is because it is the ultimate objective, as we legalians say, the final good, the summum bonus of the political and social organization, and indeed, on the part of society, it is the ultimum refugium, as we call the lawyers, the final sanctuary, the last sanctuary of the strongest, not the citizen, with its problems, the poor, the unjust and the grounded. In that sense, a colleague said so and I repeat it. The School of Judges, with the choice of the bill on the issue of general legal education, I think she is wrong and resurrects a conversation, a article and a lesson that the professor of Law of Economic Law, Costas Beys, has done at universities for years. He said that judges are a body that determines the rule of law, the quality of political dialogue and justice. Not the law, justice. The law is not justice. The law is just a tool to keep close to justice, which is constantly removed, such as the travellers in the Browning Parade poem. So Bey said that judges should not be bureaucrats under any circumstances and should not have unilateral knowledge and education of legal education alone. And I'll tell you exactly what he was saying, so the judges can figure it out. The judge's work, he says, is a job of purely mental level, and the judge himself should not feel employed with only legal knowledge and legal supplies to deal with a case or case. That's not it. He is an intellectual, deeply intellectual, and as such must be shaped and he must behave as such in the exercise of his judicial work. So the choice of the bill, which speaks of general legal education, is wrong. It must remain of general education. Because the judge in his judicial work must judge not only as a judge in his narrow sense by applying the legal provisions, but also as a minister who will streamline the difference between individuals or the state and a citizen, but at the same time he will humanise himself with his decision. So his work is deeply humanistic and therefore has to have a very deep, rich, wide general education. That's the point. And, indeed, it is not just a matter of today that we, Mr Ministers, have said so. It was also in the explanatory memorandum to the founding law of Law 2236/1994. Here is what he said in the introduction to the explanatory statement: "The school's mission is to inspire students and trained judges and high-level prosecutors and judges of opinion, build up morality, strengthen faith in the principles of democracy and freedom, bring representations from the country's social and economic life, highlight the European and international dimension of law, develop critical capacity in the approach not only of law, but also of the phenomena of social life in general." Before I heard Thanasis Paphie ask: Is it possible in a rule of law at 99% of the strikes - the strike is a constitutional right, not an obligation - to reject the decisions of the courts to exercise this constitutional right? It is a big issue, which hurts the legal community and - I think - it hurts the legal body, whether it is on the employer's side or on the employee's side. The importance of judges for a rule of law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am giving you some information from the ancient Greek secretariat. Imagine that the ancient democracy, which, of course, flourished in court and at the level of democracy and justice, considered that the judges solved not only problems of earthly life, social life, everyday life, but also that the judges also judged the dead, the deceased, who Pluto carried to the underworld. And the judges judged: Did this dead man have to go to the island of Marcaras or to Tartaras? Imagine, then, the importance of the ancient Greeks. From there, of course, we draw all the conclusions of our legal education on the importance of the judiciary. Now I'm going to the bill and I'm closing, Madam President. All right, so many amendments have been accepted. But when? Following the adoption of the decision of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. Until then, we were accused by the ministers of having no proposals and what the Administrative Plenary has finally decided was supposedly a sterile refusal of the opposition parties and above all of SYRIZA. They told you: “Take that back. Don't say it again. We stand in Parliament in all the bills, in particular the Ministry of Justice.’ However, you insisted that opposition parties have a sterile opposition. The Administrative Plenary has therefore come and confirmed our concerns and, above all, he has justified almost all the objections of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. However, an open subject remained. It has remained the subject of Article 17(1)(b), Mr Ministers, on the age limit. And here there is a huge contradiction and contradiction. Law 4689/20: Listen to what his explanatory statement said. I won't read it, because the time will pass. He said that the element of experience for both the peace judges and the judges in general is a very important provision for carrying out their judicial work. And he documented why we went to the forty-fifth year. Now just the opposite you come and claim with this bill, literally engaging in a legislative work of fifteen months. It was your law, 2020, n.4689. You are reversing the explanatory statement at the time, taking a wide opposite attitude and a decision. I think it's wrong. The forty-fifth year is a very good age limit to become a judge, because the element of the experience, namely the acquisition of alternative experience by the judge, is a top commission, a top property and a top criterion for the exercise of a beneficial to society, the citizen, and the idea of justice court work. That is why the comments made to you by the Scientific Office of the Parliament on this issue, Article 17 on age limit, are critical. And while you say that you are listening in general, who are you finally listening to? You have not heard the Association of Judges and Prosecutors here. You are not listening to the opposition parties, claiming that we are making a sterile opposition criticism. But you are not listening to the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which tells you that the forty-fifth year of the age, which existed by law of your own 2020, was found to be an adequate limit for the judge studying at the School of Judges. Now you're saying the opposite. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say something which I think is particularly well known to lawyers and to all those who perform functions in our country. In Europe there are two kinds of major schools: the schools of judges and the public administration schools. Imagine, Minister, that the nine of the ten French Presidents of the French Republic have graduated from Mitterrand's School of Government for the last forty years. Everyone except one. I say now: I wish the National School of Judges also graduated from future leaders of all courts, from administrative and criminal and political justice. Of course, this is where Greece is unrelentingly flogged by the Council of Europe about how we choose, as a political system, unfortunately rather than a judicial system, the leadership of the Supreme Courts. It was a huge opportunity that we lost as a political system in the recent Revision of the Constitution, in 2019, to change how the leaderships of all the judges of the Supreme Courts are chosen and thus come closer to a European perception and practice. We have lost it, and so we have criticism - and indeed very hard criticism - from the relevant European institutions. I think we will be given the opportunity over the next five years - because after five years we can change our Constitution - also change tactical and consciousness, because society's needs today require the choice of the leadership of justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u184	Please close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u185	...the choice of the leadership of the Supreme Courts today in a European context must also change in our country by approaching the European concept. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now we're going to the second grades. Mera25 said it wouldn't be a second. Mr. Mylonakis is absent from the Chamber. Mr. Delis, will you be seconded?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u187	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u189	I would not take the floor for a second, but I would like to clarify our position on the four ministerial amendments. First of all, I should like to say about the legal corrections to the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely Amendment 1158. Let's say, Minister, if we're not mistaken, the ink from the changes in the code to which you refer has not been dried yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u190	They're not changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u191	Okay, but this can't go on and every week we have changes to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u192	There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u193	In any case, we shall vote 'at present' in this amendment. We move on to the next amendment, 1159, which concerns damage to natural disasters. Once again, with another regulation, the government - and this government - refuses to make good the damages, to pay the compensation, that is 100% of the damages from natural disasters and all the beneficiaries. Actually, that's what you're doing. We will not, of course, vote for this amendment either. We will vote against it. For the third amendment, 1160, I have already referred to my prototype, the hypocritical - we say it openly - of interest to the government in relation to children who are not in school. There are thousands of them, Mr Minister, children who are not in school and the Minister of Education did not answer the substance of what the JRC put forward. If you really wanted all children to attend school and you wanted the nine-year-old education to be truly compulsory - we say that there is a need not to be nine-year-old, 12-year-old education - then you should take a series of social measures so that this can be ensured for everything, but all, children. But that is not your intention either, and it is not your policy either. At the same time, however, there is also Article 2, which extends cleaning contracts, etc. We would say that in the way you legislate - and you do not initially -, of course, smacking things unparalleled in one, that if this amendment were to come on its own, we would vote on it because it concerns people, workers, contractors. Of course, we will always put forward their right to permanent and stable work, but I repeat that if this article, Article 2 of Amendment No 1160, were to come alone, we would vote on it. Finally, for Amendment No 1161, the last, we shall vote against it too. It contains too many provisions. The provision that guarantees criminal immunity to members of the Committee on Extrajudicial Dispute Settlement is characteristic. That is what we wanted to make clear. Our opposition to the bill has been expressed, we have reasoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ms. Giannakopoulou, from the Change Movement, will you be seconded?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u195	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. I would just like to say on the amendment tabled jointly by the Ministry of Justice with the Ministry of Education, on the tightening up of penalties for parents, who, because of COVID, are not sending their children to education. Compulsory education, ladies and gentlemen, is first and foremost a constitutional requirement and is provided for in Article 16(2) of the Constitution. And of course it also has its payments in the 1985 legislation, which was first adopted by the PASOK, opening the school to all children without discrimination, without restrictions. The amendment restores the penalty in cases where parents are prevented from attending compulsory school. And that - and we say it with clear words - is, first of all, a right measure, because ratification, well or badly, ladies and gentlemen, is the one which makes the obligation known, otherwise it is not an obligation. In our view, however, Mr Minister, there should be a more careful wording that excludes those who face a poor, economic weakness or a real need.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u196	It will be judged by the court, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u197	It is something that is very important. Of course the court will also check it, but you understand that the wording should have been more careful. We fully understand the need to deal with this phenomenon. They're few parents, but there's this phenomenon because of the pandemic. There are parents who prevent their children from accessing compulsory education. But that does not mean, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we must reach the other end. We believe that the appropriate penalty in this case would be socially beneficial work, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u198	There's a financial penalty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u199	Fair, proportionate, right. It is a mild, but appropriate punishment, which is certainly not burdening the penitentiaries and has an improved social character, not just punishing them. But, as we have often told you, we have checked you, unfortunately public work continues to remain an empty letter in our country and we are still waiting and we are asking you to activate it. Obviously, despite today's measure, the need to safeguard public health within schools is still undeniable. We are in favour of vaccination, of regular checks on teachers and students. But does the government really have what it really had to do to prevent the dispersion of the virus in schools from happening? I'm afraid not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u200	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u201	In all the amendments we have expressed our opinion. Only Amendment No 1116 is left and a specific figure of 104. Article 3 provides, in essence, an extension of the submission ‘from a point of view’, which means that the 2020 ‘from a point of view’ will be made in the first months of 2022, which is unprecedented. Is the pandemic invoked, but do we invoke this pandemic at any time? And since it's a well-established process, how could pandemic affect the relocation of the crisis in 2022? Article 4 therefore excludes the main shareholders and shareholders of public contracts and either the main shareholders or the main shareholders are exempted from the denomination requirement. The Government invokes multi-participation, the fact that they may be listed in a foreign state, in order to claim that it is impossible to check, but the ‘possibly’ declaration is submitted after the reference year has been closed and that it relates to a price imprint on 31 December. Therefore, what is stated in the explanatory statement does not apply, that there is a speed in the transactions that prevents control of ‘positively’. In any case, the government brings a provision on the'subjects' of public money-managed companies, when the Prime Minister is inspected for a story of 'whereabouts', Mrs Nicholas is controlled by the indictment of the three Heads of State to administer these things and we think that she is part of a comprehensive government policy, in which we are of course totally against. Finally, for Article 5, this irresponsible conceals amnesty and this leads us to the vote. A total of 1116 is therefore voted against for the reasons I have just mentioned. We have spoken in the process about the other amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Lambropoulos has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, as rapporteur for the New Democracy Party, I would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs and all those who took part in the debate and of course to thank the Minister, the Deputy Minister, for having had a very constructive, useful debate and I firmly believe that a very good bill has come. So we will have a School of Judges through a bill that we have formulated after dialogue and discussion, which is even better and above all acceptable to judiciaries and all interested parties. I feel very pleased about today's debate and also the debate that took place in the committee. Because I am also a lawyer, I would not feel well if I left here without saying two words about justice, about what was heard by just one party, which said that there is no justice in our country. I am sorry, because such words have been heard here, in the Greek Parliament, in the area of our democracy. Such words and formalities are dangerous to our democracy and they are unfair to the entire judiciary. Judges under difficult and unfavourable circumstances are trying to do their jobs and, in their entirety, to the vast majority, doing their job well. Everyone should know that the judge decides with the law and with his conscience. With regard to the amendment that has been tabled to punish parents or children who do not go to school, I would like to say to my dear colleague and fellow student that no one, but no one, is innocent when he does not send his children to school, whoever he is for whatever reason, is doing so. No one is innocent, especially after the phenomena we read and heard about the masks, the other laughing and anything else about the pandemic. So no one is entitled to deprive of their children, children from society and Greece, education, to be people right, educated, characters good, useful in society. No one, for any ideas, for whatever authorities they believe, is entitled to do so. I'm going further than that. We have many groups in our country, as there are in other states, of course, who either consciously do not send their children or fail to send them or send them to other jobs. And for these groups, I believe that punishment is a message to force them to send their children to school, to implement the law, which was rightly said to exist since '85, was abolished in 1919, but is coming back. Even with the threat of punishment, everyone, whether they're called Roma or I don't know what they're called, should send their children to school. This is an opportunity for us today to raise the level of Roma and introduce them socially, because they will never join society if they have not gone to school if they have not gone to kindergarten if they have not been to school if they have not learned letters. That is why we must also agree on this amendment and see that it is not just those who oppose the pandemic, the vaccine or any other tragedy it sounds, but it also has a horizon for other things that we need to think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u205	The governments first condemn these children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u206	We've seen yours too...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u207	We solved it a long time ago, a century ago. JOANNIS LAMPROPOULOS: We saw it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u208	Of course, we saw it. And now we're washing yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u209	Yours...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u210	Minister, will you take the eighteen minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u211	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u212	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, when the Prime Minister of the country gave me the honour of entrusting me with the role of the Minister of Justice, I tried to identify from my point of view what the great problems of the area of justice are. Of course, the first thing to do in some way, if you want, is to find out how to see and solve problems, to deal with pathogens, to show a way that, in any case, will create the data or the conditions, so that the functioning of justice will inspire citizens, give them a sense of trust in their operation and, of course, make them feel safe. Under this view we have tried to look at one or one of the issues that would help us move in this direction. That is why, as I have said many times to you, we have opened up issues which for many people are too imaginative in number, but for us they seem absolutely necessary, if we want to reform justice in this year, to modernise the procedures and answer basic questions raised by both citizens and society. We have voted for changes in code and these changes will be completed with the next piece of legislation, which will cover the Code of the Statute of the Court of Justice and the Judiciary. Today we are talking about a bill concerning the National Court School, in other words, judicial education. I personally believe that it is the greatest reform in the field of judicial education since the establishment of the National School of Judges. Why? Because it comes to update the whole procedure of the National School of Judges, from the way or the procedure for the introduction of students, from the process of education in relation to the objects to be trained, but also from the way in which this exercise is to be carried out, but of course also from procedures relating to the lifelong education of judges, which I think has been a lot earlier than many colleagues and have expressed different views. I understand the need for the representatives of the parties to come and say their views or, in any case, move in a direction that shows as if they had not followed what had happened before and how the process had evolved since the first day of the debate in the relevant parliamentary committee. For given, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that I always address this House and I always have an open, if you like, willingness to co-form together the laws of the Ministry of Justice - I still believe that it is a parliamentary exercise of the Ministry of Justice's bills - I think that we have achieved the maximum of this exercise. The fact that we have come with a bill which has been treated differently, not only by the parties, or possibly by the trade unions, judicial associations and scientific bodies, should normally be regarded as a success, but in total, if you like, a more general reflection of us, and we have expressed it from the very beginning. From the first meeting of the committee, I think I made it clear to you that, in order to make any next step, I will listen to the views of both the rapporteurs and the speakers of the parties, we will hear the views of the judiciary associations - which had already been called on the second day of the discussions in committee - and of course we will also hear what the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Council of State will say. And in support of all this, in confirmation of all this, we are coming to make the necessary changes and to form a bill which obviously no longer creates the more general reflection that he had created since the beginning of his statement or from the beginning of the debate. And of course I think he has answered almost all the major issues that had been raised. So instead of today's debate is to confirm a parliamentary practice - which the lies are not so frequent and I think those in the Greek Parliament are very well aware of - you often come with a logic of opposition or criticism that I think should have been overtaken. I say this because, unfortunately, there have been many colleagues who have not followed the progress of the bill. They did not even understand the changes we had announced during the debate in the committee responsible. There were colleagues who from the Stepping of plenary said things that were already overdue. This shows that they may not be following the bills in the way they should be monitored or perhaps not participating in a positive direction. And I say this without wanting to be misunderstood or give any kind of reproach to anyone, we just have to clear up some things, which I think they will make us all look at differently and at legislative work, but above all contribute positively to directions that, in any case, I think we can sometimes converge. Was it or wasn't it fragmented and unconnected with the legislative framework concerning the functioning of the National Court School? I think the answer is obvious: Yes. Since 1994, with two more laws, we have been in a different social reality, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to confuse the terms and falsify what is being heard. What did that mean? It meant that if we want to have judges who respond to a different social reality, we need to reform the framework of their education, we need to look at the issues relating to the way they enter the National School of Judges and we must, of course, in a concrete way, ensure their lifelong education. That's why you see that, in the individual stages too, there are certain changes being made, so that we can effectively ensure the modernisation of the whole framework of the National Court School. We must also respond to a major issue which has been raised, but I do not know how important some have been. I will reply to you, Mrs Adamopoulou, that there is obviously an internal training for judges, but it is a matter of state. And that is where the European Justice Scoreboard report for 2021 refers. And it says that the lifelong training of judges, based on what the Greek state does, is zero. And it's our duty to do it. That's what we're trying to do right now. It's not a matter of denial. It was heard by the representatives of the Communist Party of Greece to accept, in any case, that there is training for judges. Apparently there is. There are internal seminars. No one refused what was happening. But there is also a state responsibility to support lifelong learning, the lifelong education of judges. We also respond to this obligation so that there are no misunderstandings, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask that I table in the Minutes the item proving what the ranking of our country is on the basis of the report by European Justice Scoreboard. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And here, of course, while some questions had been asked, and despite the fact that - I do not hide it from you - I thought the whole process is about self-assessment of judges, I fully respect the fact that the Council of State with its Administrative Plenary has a different viewpoint. But things have been heard, ladies and gentlemen, which, to a very large extent, I think are not based, really. So, today's judges, if we need to see the individual objects that are to be taught in the educational seminars, do they not need special knowledge? Should they not be aware of the organisation and administration of the courts? They are the heads of certain courts when at a time when they are appointed they must exercise command. Should they not know how to exercise command? Should they not, for example, know about matters relating to the law of the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights? Should they not be aware of any other sensible issues relating to the legal depth of themes depending on the justice sector that they serve? Or should they not, on the other hand, be aware of economic law and, above all, of issues which we know are normally undeclared and which must be dealt with in a sense completely different from the one that justice used in the past? I'll make my place clear. I respect everyone's views. But I believe that the functioning of justice obviously has direct reliance on the economic development of a country. And the economic development of a country is obviously related to investment. Obviously it also relates to issues that create new jobs. If anyone wants to stay in a logic of the past decades, it is his right. But I imagine that the views expressed by the Step of the House are obviously in the crisis of the Greek citizens and there the Greek citizens decide what is right, what is close to their own I believe and what may be the biggest or smaller side of it. That means democracy too. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must at some point look at things in a logical way. It was heard that the Minister of Justice and the Ministry place the director of studies at the National School of Judges. It's like we don't know what practice is. Don't you know that all of these are issues that concern decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council? There is no involvement of any Minister of Justice and no Ministry of Justice in what is happening at the National Court School. After all, this is constitutionally guaranteed by the very functioning of justice. But - I repeat - we must also look at many other issues. The age limit for which there has been a great deal of talk, which is one of the issues we have not dealt with, I do not hide it from you that there has been a more general reflection and there has also been a great debate that, beyond the draft law that the Committee on Legal Affairs gave us and we have studied, was a more general reflection and with my colleagues and judiciaries seconded to the Ministry of Justice. But if you see what happens in all European countries, you will understand that it is not easy to decide on what age limit the National School of Judges is. I will tell you that the French system, in which we are supposed to be close, has a thirty-one-year-old limit to get into their respective National Judicial School. But I will tell you that in other countries it is a precondition for the completion of a large academic, scientific, professional circle in order to become a judge, as may be the case in Anglo-Saxon law. However, it always depends on what you finally choose to do, what is the general philosophy that governs any National School of Judges in which they are in the country, to determine the data which are necessary every time to ensure that there is a service presence and a service development. It is quite a different philosophy if one should, for example, after his fifty or his sixty years of entering the judiciary as a judge and it is quite different to enter from an early age and should essentially keep a certain logic during his service life. And to a very large extent, I think that the logic of the reflection that has been put forward is that there is a transitional provision, so that there is no surprise, at least for all those who decide close to that age to give admission tests to the National School of Judges. So this is something we are dealing with without any side effect or any other given issue. I have told you at the first moment that the issues which have been raised in a more general debate were to be dealt with and I actually said it on the first and second day of the meetings. We did so immediately after the bodies were heard and for some we expected the general position, the general view of the Board of Directors of State. And that also proves the consistency of a piece of legislation which has been repeated in a very specific way in the Ministry of Justice over the last few years. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that answering this self-evident does not need to complicate it or, much more, to create just one reason for discussion. The fact that there is an undeniable need to reform the framework of the National School of Judges and to modernise it and adapt it to the data of a modern reality I think that it is more or less a view expressed by almost all colleagues here. And that is at least - I would say - a basis on which any debate begins, as well as the fact that clear opinions have been heard, whether near or across, and that is a very great success during this debate. I would like to say a little bit about the amendments and to present the two, first of all, amendments concerning the Ministry of Justice. With the first amendment, with the proposed regulations of Articles 1 to 7 of this amendment, I would like to make it clear that there is no change. I understand that it is 'fair' - in introductory words - the objection, which you have lodged, that it concerns only the invasion of articles by Law 4855 which amended the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's no change, I'm clear. These are issues which have not been transferred for some reason to the final text of the law, obviously they are arrogant and which is why they are treated in this way. In the other amendment, however, on which objections were raised - and I hear Mr Xanthopoulou earlier - I will tell you that Article 1 creates a special electronic delivery platform by means of an electronic encrypted message of the provision of the public prosecutor referred to in Article 5(3) of Law 3649/2008 to remove the confidentiality of communications for national security purposes, which operates in the National Information Service. In other words, the National Intelligence Service uses, as it should, a platform of its own. Article 2 extends the validity of the lists of nominees in a order of priority and the filling of posts in university, technological and secondary education in the Ministry of Justice, i.e. for the courts and judicial services of the country, declared on 1K/2017, 2K/2017 and 8K/2017 notices of the AACC. The validity of this table is extended until 31/12-2022, precisely so that we can absorb other successors, since we know that the biggest problem we have to deal with is subscribing to the judiciary. And you realize that this is a very serious matter. I do not hide it from you that we have been trying to find a solution with the Minister responsible for the Interior in recent years and with the administration of the AACC. There is a great deal of work in subscribing the judicial officers and we are trying to deal with it. In Article 3, we have said so and heard it before, the deadline for submitting statements of assets and economic interests is extended. The extended practically duration of the pandemic has created issues, and at least, if I had to make a comment, I would say to Mr. Xanthopopoulou, let's see how long we didn't make statements "possibly" during the previous SYRIZA government, in order to say anything else. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Article 4 provides for the exemption from the obligation to submit statements of assets and economic interests in the cases of shareholders exempted from the obligation to denomination, because this obligation is in fact impracticable due to the multi-share composition of these companies and the speed of exchange transactions. The aim is to ensure transparency and combat corruption and it can be achieved for these particular shareholders, both by existing tax legislation and by the general legislation in force. Finally, Article 5 proposes changes and additions with a view to ensuring the independence of members of the Committees for the Resolution of Tax Dispute Settlement, in order to make it clear that for the birth of their civil and criminal liability there is a cumulative need beyond the intent and the existence of a purpose of providing unlawful benefits or harm to the public or others. In addition, a request by the Commander of the National Transparency Authority is made for the exercise of criminal prosecution. And all this applies mutatis mutandis, for reasons of equal treatment, to the chairman and members of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Committee, Article 70 of Law 2238/1994, as well as to officials and Heads of the Dispute Settlement Directorate of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, Article 63 of Law 4174/2013. Two parliamentary amendments have been tabled, and I must say in advance that they are moving in the right direction. So much the amendment by Mr SYRIZA, which concerns the exploitation of FIFG assets, is an issue which concerns us, I have answered it in committee too. We have already taken note of the FAO, and I believe that we will soon be coming back on an integrated legislative initiative. I repeat, it is a proposal that moves in the right direction - I am making this clear - and I think it will soon be resolved. For the amendment tabled by the two colleagues in the New Democracy, I would again make exactly the same comment, that it is in the right direction and this amendment. But we need to see the whole thing. In other words, the right to participate in the competition of the National School of Judiciary Officers, Police Officers, Graduates of Officers and Officers, or Special Prosecutors and Penitentiary Officers is an issue that, first of all, sounds as an issue and a proposal that moves in the right direction and we will try to approach it and solve it as a whole. Finally, I would like to make a comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the great - introductory terms -'reaction' or debate caused by the amendment tabled by the Minister for Education, which, in any case, was discussed earlier. I do not know what the general political position of either the parties or the Members of Parliament might be. I think, however, that there is a right of children to education, which one cannot put into any criticism. It cannot in any way be protected against the right of children to receive basic education. And that's where I think we should stand. All that has been expressed as fears, concerns, responds to a very large extent to the fact that the judicial crisis, the judiciary crisis, is the one to answer individual issues. I listen with interest to what you said, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, and we will then see how it can work. However, if you look at the recent past, you will see that this was a provision that existed as a slap in the previous Criminal Code, before the changes made by the SYRIZA government in June 2019, with the total abolition of the payments. And without any provision, at least for certain issues relating to the right of children to receive basic education, basic education, you can see that the questions about the study that has been shown at the time, but much more doubts as to whether such an accelerated legislature has not created a whole series of other problems, are obviously being magnified and apparently giving rise to even greater question about the then attempted legislative initiative. But, ladies and gentlemen, speaking today about whether the basic education of children should be compulsory, which is undeniably the basic right of children to me, I do not think it should go into any kind of logic. Obviously, the particular circumstances of certain families or people who may not be able to do so or are pressed by third parties will be checked. However, to do so - in introductory words - 'conscious', either because of ideology, whether because of indifference or because of a misconduct of parental responsibility, it is an issue which cannot be seen and dealt with. It is not a matter of common sense, it is a matter of morality for all of us. And that's how we need to see it. We don't have to say anything more. With these thoughts, I would like to thank you. Although it may not have been acknowledged that it was perhaps the best parliamentary exercise we had so far in the debate on this bill, I will tell you that each colleague's debate and positions have actually contributed to achieving a result which is a great step. And it is a big step because the biggest step must be taken with the deposit and debate of the next bill, which is the Code of Jurisdiction and Judiciary. That is where we need to look at all the issues relating to procedures that we know are giving rise to questions and which we know need to be dealt with differently. Inspection, evaluation, disciplinary are issues which I know are also of concern to judicial associations - not only the society or the functioning of justice, but also the judicial associations themselves - and I believe that, with a sincere dialogue between us, all the issues that will help us to make decisions so that we have a modernised judicial system, which will deal only with the great pathogens recorded, in particular the long delays relating to the time of administration of justice, we will have taken a really big step, the results of which will be visible from society, which will be visible to the citizens. If one were to claim that by itself legislating solves the problems, it would obviously be on a reasonable utopia. If one again claimed that in itself the modernisation of procedures, digitalisation or the construction of new judicial buildings is the answer to the problem in the field of justice, for precisely the same reason he probably could not see the very reality. It is a multifactorial reality, involving both the processes and the legislative framework and the infrastructure, but of course the people themselves. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if we are indeed determined on issues or issues that we know to be problems from the past and which, by themselves, are saying that we must deal with them both with bravery and with unanimity, because it is crucial that there should be unanimity if each of us sends different messages to society, you realise that this will never bring us to solve the problem. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And since each of us must assume the part of its responsibility, whether as a political system either as a Parliament or as a genuine factor in this process of independence, a constitutionally guaranteed authority that is justice, you realise that this will be an element for which future generations will judge us, but much more will give us these responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is adjourned: 'Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Justice and other urgent provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty-seven articles, of four amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Make sure that you have voted on all the areas included in the vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. Any question can be addressed to the relevant officials. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u215	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u216	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u217	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforms in the legislative framework of the National School of Judicial Officers and other urgent provisions" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole principle, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u219	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-08-S1-commons.u220	With the consent of the House at 17.12' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 9 December 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: " just development transition and regulation of more specific issues of liberation", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
