ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today, on Monday, 25 October, 2021, ten topical questions will be discussed. Without any timelag, we proceed to the debate on the first under number 86/18-10-2021 of the second-cycle question by SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Additional compensation to the Commander of the Civil Aviation Authority". The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the specific issue of the remuneration of the Commander of the Civil Aviation Authority is reintroduced, because it is more likely to confirm the view that the most well-paid and profitable procedure in the last two years is the relationship between an official and a New Democracy Government. To be more specific, we ask the Minister, what was the need, by means of a decision signed on 2 September 2021, for the Commander of the Civil Aviation Authority, Mr Tsituras, in addition to enjoying the privilege, the reward of being equal to that of a Secretary-General of the Government, to obtain an additional allowance which can exceed all 60,000 and 70,000 euros a year, as an allowance provided through EUROCONTROL, of an international treaty to strengthen air navigation, meteorology and control of airports, for which he expressly refers to in the '99 Regulatory Act', that those who enjoy or provide air navigation services? Actually, what is the Ministry of Infrastructure doing with this decision? It creates another gold-payed executive of the "excellents" of the state of excellence. Indeed, to a Civil Protection Authority which, despite the legislative change of 1920, of the recent law brought about by the Government, is still trying in a misguided way, I would say, to serve and operate with the problems already expressed, that an Athenian agency was, in fact, an Athenian agency that had nothing for the regionality of the Greek airports. That is what I want to say to you that this is a second issue, but we remain on the main question. Why is that so much money now to Mr. Cheetura? Why such privileged treatment? And worst of all, the money comes from the fund and from the group that Mr Tsituras has to control. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u3	Good. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u4	Mr Giannoulis, there is an absolute confusion in your question. In your oral question you have avoided mentioning, you have obviously acknowledged your mistake. I expect you to answer that. You are mistaken - I may be wrong - the productivity premium with the EUROCONTROL allowance. These are two different things. You refer to your question. The productivity premium is the compensation we pay to the auditors of EUROCONTROL. The EUROCONTROL allowance is something quite different, given to all air traffic controllers. This money is not Greek public money. It's users' money. Therefore, another productivity premium, which was a major change and reform, has given auditors the opportunity to increase their income further. And that was with Article 31 of Law 4647, which you voted against as SYRIZA. So you come here to act on the one hand as you want the good of the auditors, but on the other hand, you voted against an article and an effort that would increase their income. So decide what you both want. Secondly, you want to talk about EUROCONTROL. You have again said things that have nothing to do with reality. The compensation referred to in Articles 34 and 34A of Law 2682/1999, namely EUROCONTROL, is, as you quite rightly said, paid to air traffic controllers and not only to air traffic controllers. To say things by their name, it is paid to all the employees of the PSC, while in other countries of Europe it is only paid to those involved in the air transport. And this law is in line with European Implementing Regulation 2019/317 on air navigation charges. Now let's go see what the so-called 28 of the regulation is. ‘Member States should also be able to include in these cost bases the determined costs incurred for national supervisory authorities, as well as other public costs related to the provision of air navigation services.’ Who is the Greek National Commission? APA, Mr. Giannoulis. The regulation itself therefore provides that EUROCONTROL should also be granted to AU. We don't just stop there, and I answer you directly, so everyone can hear us. Is it possible for the Commander of the PSC and the Commander of the PSC to get less money than the air traffic controllers? Where is this happening in any public or private sector in the civilised world, that is, the supervising officer has less pay than he supervises? That is the clear answer I am giving you, that it is not possible for the commander either of the PSC - because we will also do the same thing for the PSC in the law that will follow - or for the PSC to take less money than those he supervises. I think this answer is clear and incredibly plausible. Obviously, in the world where the radical left lives, this is something you do not accept. This is the big difference between our party and yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I expected you to be characteristicly predictable not to answer the question and simply using the stereotype and the stereotype of anti-SYRIZA rhetoric. You are also confused and, obviously, you are not telling the truth. I repeat the record: at the moment, the Commander of the Civil Aviation Authority, Mr. Tsituras, in addition to the Secretary-General's salary, enjoys the allowance as if he were performing air traffic controller duties. And, indeed, within your ministerial decision, it is foreseen that a air traffic controller will enjoy the greatest amount of air traffic controller's time during the management period. The law you referred to, in 1999 - and I have it here - expressly stipulates all the authorizing provisions on who and how EUROCONTROL is entitled to money. And you're right, there's a lot of them. In your decision you are also attempting to overcome a legal excess, because you are giving Mr Tsitura a provocative allowance in proportion - a new legal expression - of Articles 34 and 36 of the 1999 Act. And since you were also intending to proceed with the Civil Aviation Service, why didn't you add a provision to the law that has just been revised in 2020? And we're actually entering. Do you know what the development of the operation of the Civil Aviation Authority is? Of some seventy - seventy - five workers you predict against all international standards, they have been transferred as soon as sixty - five and even fewer air navigation know-hows. The service is almost deadlocked. But to return to economic matters, because confusion and incomplete information, obviously, you have misguided public opinion. There is an endless debate about legal and moral. Here, in relation to the wording 'by analogy to the application of Articles 34 and 36', you even go to the possibility of a question of legality. But there is a moral issue, Mr Minister. You reversed the argument. Is it possible for the auditor to be paid on the basis of the performance of the audited person, i.e. the audited person to be the one and the certification of the correctness of his work the presumption of how much money he will actually get at the end of the year? In just Greek, Mr. Tsituras should certify that at the Civil Aviation Service, which must be hard to control, it will all be okay, because Mr. Tsitura's "okay" leads to a greater financial return for him. Does that make sense to you? Remuneration for members of the State Authority with dignity I believe that is guaranteed by the Secretary-General's wage. What are you talking about? That if there is an air traffic controller, who goes down and uploads thirty or forty aircraft a day and at the end of the year will be remunerated on the basis of EUROCONTROL of EUR 90,000, so much will Mr Tsituras also have to take in order to have a question of equality? Can you put a question of equality? Because rating and performance are not. Mr. Tsituras is a political person. The law had predicted all cases except for how we create well-paid and gold-paid members of the Mitsotakis government. So don't tell me about radical obsessions and ideologies. The only idea that exists in this case is that you want to protect the interests of very few, effectively destroying the structure of the Civil Aviation Authority in international standards. In fact, in a country with regionalities at airports you made a state control authority that can control the airports in the region only from Athens. But that's what we'll talk about at another meeting. The most essential thing, however, is that you are renouncing the debate of the "final" state, of senior officials with the least formal qualifications, with the greatest financial benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u7	Finish, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u8	And I will ask you one question, since you felt that I did not follow the text of the question and broaden it: Did Mr Tsitouras have recognized them to the Greek competent authorities? Because when he had appeared in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, a member of the TEU wasn't. That's in parentheses. However, for the very good bonus, an allowance, an additional income that you assured him, I have the impression that you are politically exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u9	Good, Mr. Giannoulis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u10	Sometimes, you know, the right reason raises your hands up. There's an incredible triumph in what Mr. Giannoulis says. First of all, it is extremely inconsistent - as usual, of course, it does not surprise us - because a moment ago, Mr President, I read the regulation, which clearly says when and how they can be paid. So there's no point at all. Now, there is a huge difference between what Mr Giannoulis says and what I say. So what do I say? I say - in my view - the obvious. That is, that it is not possible for the commander of any organisation, Mr Giannoulis, whether this is the APA, which is responsible for being the supervisory body, or for providing a service, to be paid less than the officials he supervises. That's what I'm saying. You, Mr. Giannoulis, have a salary as a MP. Your scientific partner gets more than you? Oh, no. It's getting less. So what's the matter - moral? None. We just want to create a subject and it's obvious that here there's an obsession. Mr. Giannoulis, who has his obsessed, has an obsession with Mr. Tsitura. You mentioned the name of Mr. Tsitura six times, Mr. Giannoulis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u11	That's him, isn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u12	Six times, Mr. Giannoulis! Take it easy. Why are you obsessed with people? And you say things that have nothing to do with reality. For the productivity premium Mr Giannoulis has not talked to us, and in his question - to show how inconsistent the SYRIZA colleagues who come here and ask questions - have involved the productivity premium, which is a bonus that we give to the auditors, for whom Mr Giannoulis is being cut, with the EUROCONTROL allowance. Mr. Giannoulis, you can't even tell. And I've explained to you again that for the first time in the Greek state, yes, someone will be paid better if they have a better performance. That's the productivity premium. What is it? When the air traffic controller makes more moves an hour and when we have fewer delays, we give him an extra allowance. This is not the EUROCONTROL allowance. That's the productivity premium. The Commander of the PSC and the PSC has nothing to do with the productivity premium, which is mentioned in writing in your question. And I say this, Mr Giannoulis, because the writings are the ones left and once again you have been exposed, because once again you have come unsettled! So, in order to answer clearly, yes, what the New Democracy is advocating against what SYRIZA advocates is that the commander of an organisation must receive the same wages as those he supervises and with the remuneration of officials. This is something you obviously disagree with. Once again, you go against common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with the number 70/12-10-2021 top-level question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Marinos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The catastrophic consequences of the flood in northern Evia and the great dangers faced by the people of the region". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Georgios Karagiannis. Mr. Marino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u14	Minister, for once an expected autumn storm led to a death, endangered the lives of the people and caused great damage to homes in people's properties and infrastructures in Attica, Evia, the Ionian Sea, the Peloponnese, the Ionian Sea, Macedonia, all over the country. It has been shown that there is no complete anti-flood protection plan and the necessary infrastructure. The responsibilities of the Government, the former governments and the civil state are criminal. They consider the cost of people's needs and benefits to capitalist profits in line with the European Union's strategy. The topical question of the Communist Party of Greece was tabled for the damage of the flood in Evia caused by Athena. We warned about the danger. The policy that burned northern Evia in August drowned it under conditions of a common rainfall area. After the catastrophic fire, the delay in the necessary anti-corrosion measures is challenging. It was not even the beginning of the flooding. The government plays with the individual responsibility and the life of the people. What happened to Evia? Some streams were roughly cleaned and the water had no way out. The estuaries were blocked. This was in St. Anna and Pear. Every time, the Goat and the Fishpool are flooded. The pomegranates and the lake face mortal danger. The rivers of Kreas and Delis are left to their fate after the bad weather of Zorba in 2018. Mandudi and its villages have mourned dead, while permanently destroyed crops. The Sausage is suffering. Lelantian Field was destroyed in 2009, we mourned dead in 2020. And nothing has been done, but no anti-military work has been done. The governments and the European Union consider them ineligible. No provision for the Floral Bridge, no substantial work in the Municipality of Dirfyon - Messapion, Stavra, Karystos, Aliveri and Kymi. Minister, give a concrete answer and say how and when the flooding works will proceed, how the people affected will be compensated for 100% without terms and conditions and not with the terrible conditions that the firemen are facing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I would like, if I may, before I refer to the timely question, to assure the House and on this occasion that the Government as a whole, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, are doing not only what is possible and necessary to address the consequences of natural disasters but, taking into account the increase in the appearance of the phenomenon, we are planning a more comprehensive approach to protecting the population and the property of the citizens. This design moves in two axes: The first axis concerns the study and implementation of projects at two levels: in the short term, to deal with the consequences, and in the long term, to shield the country and strengthen the state mechanism, in order to achieve immediate intervention. The second axis focuses on the citizen affected by the natural phenomena and the state is obliged to remove the consequences by means of immediate relief measures such as state aid, as well as housekeepers and any other measures taken, but also measures to remove the consequences in a more comprehensive way, such as housing assistance, interest-free or low-interest borrowing. We do not believe that we can prevent natural disasters, which, for reasons which are not currently the case, have been growing in recent years, but we have to oppose a design that will reduce their consequences, as has been the case with earthquake regulations, thus reducing the vulnerability of buildings. Although most of your question, Mr Papoutsis, does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, but within the competence of other co-legislative ministries, or on Otta I and B, in order not to take this as an attempt to avoid this, I will try to answer your relevant questions, because as a government, we are not separating acts and prevention measures. First of all, I should like to make it clear that in many cases the co-responsibility of state and self-government bodies is confusing not only with regard to obligations and responsibilities, but especially with regard to the conduct imposed, depending on the nature of the natural phenomenon. What do I mean by that? Another way to deal with the earthquake, other than fire and other flooding. That is why the government is studying and gradually simplifying the corresponding forecasts and the unambiguous, as far as possible, definition of responsibilities, as was the case with the recent state aid law. Specifically for anti-military projects, I have to clarify that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has been involved - and I repeat this here - only if a project is deemed to be of national importance and only for the part of the study and construction of this project, which, after completion of the project, is the responsibility of the local government, which must be carried out in order to maintain the anti-military works, clean up and policing the rafts. The temporary flooding measures carried out mainly in mountainous volumes, which you mentioned, which have been affected by fire or the mountainous waterbed, the so-called mountainous hydroponic works with small woodblocks, are specifically forestry projects and are the responsibility of the relevant forest service of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Therefore, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is solely responsible for studies and construction of counter-flood protection projects identified by a decision of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport as specific and important projects at national level. All other anti-milling projects are the responsibility of OTAs I and II grades. This is in terms of responsibilities, so that there is no doubt as to the actions involved. In cases, now, of the Ministry's competence, such as the earthquake, the Directorate-General for the Restoration of Natural Disasters, from the occurrence of the phenomenon, moves to the affected areas with all available human resources and starts, before any request is made, the recording of the damage. I assure the National Representation, as we have heard many times recently, that this is done without calculating the prevailing conditions and above, I would say, on behalf of the officials. And that's why we all need to thank them. The leadership of our Ministry is only one command in such cases, to complete the registration in the shortest possible time, so that the citizens receive the aid due immediately. This is done by me and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Kostas Karamanlis. After all, you see what has happened in Crete, where within a minimum period we have accomplished more than ten and a half thousand primary autopsies, and we have already carried out something less than two thousand secondary ones. However, you are asking for information on the course of damage recordings from the recent floods in Evia. I have to make it clear that in the case of flooding, as provided for in the current legislation, if you read the DARDANOS project, the services of the region concerned and of the municipalities affected are carried out and the affected area is demarcated. In cases of extensive flooding, the Ministry's leadership, as happened in the case of 'Janu', supported the Directorate-General for Natural Disaster Rehabilitation, but had first been requested by the region. We are in constant contact with the municipalities and the region. We are at their disposal to assist with anything else they need. I'll tell the rest in my second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Marino, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u18	This is not the first time, Minister, which is being attempted to cover the tragedy that our people have experienced and the very heavy consequences of this dreadful ping-Pong being played between the central government, the regional and regional authorities and the forests, in the case of floods. But this unacceptable practice has led to the continual recycle of these problems affecting our people. In other words, today the government has tried to justify false claims to cover its responsibilities to cover the responsibilities of this rotten system which serves and of the urban state, which burys or burns popular needs, but is hitting records when it comes to anti-grass measures, repression and prerogatives in big capital. This state that you manage has billions of euros to finance economic groups that have treasured, gives more than EUR 4 billion a year for NATO's war needs and turns the backs to the popular demand for anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism protection. The government, like the previous ones, was taught nothing about Mandra’s tragedy and the eight dead in Evia last year. The alibi of rain intensity and climate change exposes you. The problem is the policy that serves the Groups' profits. The commercialisation of the land, the smuggling of land, the lack of integrated anti-military planning and appropriate infrastructure, the forest policy that led to the fires in northern Evia and the other regions aggravate the situation and the State Secretary of Interior Mr. Petsas is raining, attempted to eliminate this problem. Areas of Athens turned into lakes, students tried to survive in flooded schools, bus became a submarine, dozens of people escaped at the last minute. It is challenging that there is no preventive measures, no matter what you say, Minister, the necessary control, cleansing and maintenance of infrastructure due to the State's sub-financing and sub-sistence of the services concerned. You too are satisfied with this unacceptable situation. The tragedies that our people live in have put the need to change the country's course. Comprehensive flood protection can be ensured by the JRC proposal, in the territory of social ownership of means of production and scientific centralised planning. That is necessary. The mass mobilisation of the people of Evia, the coordination of the action of firefighting, flooding, earthquake victims, who organise mobilisation on November 6th in the Constitution, gives a decisive response. The Communist Party of Greece insists: Now anti-military works in Evia and throughout the country. Direct compensation to 100%, without conditions - we repeat this - and conditions for all affected. Direct measures to restore road network, water network, ensure housing, feed all affected, fires, floods and earthquakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you now have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u20	Mr Colleagues, let me compare the designations of false statements and all that you have mentioned. I understand your role, that you must make an opposition, but let me tell you that at least Mr Mitsotakis' government on all these issues has demonstrated to a great extent, I would say to the extent that our country has had too many years to see, efficiency, direct action, whatever the state is at hand, and I understand what you are saying about the separation of competences and whether they are interested in citizens or not. Of course, our culture, our democracy, has all this. There is a distinction of competence, and that is, let me say, the institutional distinction needed, but that is the truth - a general weakness of cohesiveness. For my part, however, I would violate every sense of seriousness if I were tempted to refer to the actions of other bodies with general and non-essential references. To this end, I would ask - and at the same time I believe it would be useful and efficient to agree with me - that Members should address the questions to the relevant ministries, because often you should see what the responsibility of each ministry is, as well as the responsibility of each region. There is no intention of avoiding the answers. On the contrary, dialogue recognises that it is also useful and in the context of parliamentary scrutiny we should respect it. That is why we are also informing the House at first reading, you Members and the people of the regions affected, of what has been done and what is planned for the next period. But a large part of your question - and Mr Arsenis is here - I would say, Mr Amyras, in reply to the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, because that is where all the answers are. Let me not repeat at this time what the government has done. We could testify to you in the Minutes and what exactly is being done for forestry projects and how quickly they have been, unlike other flooding phenomena, that the state showed a lot of time to react. As far as the affected areas of the Region of Central Greece and the assistance of the affected municipalities are concerned, we are next to every request made by the municipalities of the region. The services of our Ministry and the relevant Directorate-General are in constant cooperation with the region concerned and we will proceed as soon as the autopsy ends and the delimitation of the areas affected, so that the planned housing assistance can be provided. As I have already said, however, and this is in no way an evasion process, as far as the fact that took place on 9 and 10 October in the flooding phenomena that occurred in the two municipalities is concerned, the notification by the Region of Central Greece was made on 12 October. We are in constant contact with the region, and whatever it takes we will help and be with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, there is one serious matter to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u22	You have the floor, Mr Marino.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u23	We submitted it to Mr Triantopoulos and Mr Triantopoulos' office did not accept it, and in that respect we tabled the question to the Ministry of Infrastructure, as we had to do. In any case, there is a political issue that Mr Triantopoulos's office did not accept the question, and while he is Mr Triantopoulos lalist and tries with all means to memorize the people of Northern Evia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u25	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u26	For colleagues who are now absent from the Chamber we should be a little more careful about what we have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u27	We wanted him to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u28	Now, as far as the work done by Mr Triantopoulos is concerned, this is seen by the people of Evia. I think they have the best answer, because Mr Triantopoulos is there every week dealing with all the issues. Allow me, then, to address the people who work and deal with all the issues... I understand your opposition role, but a little more respect would be better for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u29	We continue with the fifth under the number 80/15-10-2021 top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The exclusion of philosophicals from crimes against animals against crimes". The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, will answer. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you brought about a month and a half ago a law which the philosophical organisations asked you to withdraw, saying - I read the words and text of the Pan-Hellenic Philozootic Environmental Federation - that you have consulted it with circuits that have the primary objective of exploiting or posing them from animals rather than protecting them. You have brought a law that we continue to ask you to withdraw, a law which gives exploitation rights and protectionist restrictions. So what do we have right now? You have built a National Pet Register which should also be written by prozootic organisations. If they're not in there, they can't take part either as a civil action or take part in the trials against criminals. This registry, one and a half months later, you haven't started it yet and we wonder if, when you're gonna finish it and if you want to finish it. At the moment, precisely because there is no possibility for pro-zootic organisations, there are objections made by criminals and they are not allowed to participate in the trial. That is the situation you have already created. The question is very clear: will this register ever be made? Are you going to do this or is this a good thing for you? Do you want to exclude organisations from protecting animals from abusers? Is it true that in the absence of this register animals are left with their abusers, because trials cannot proceed? We call on you in any case to withdraw this law now, to re-entry from zero to consultation and to discuss with the real people involved in protection and not the marketing of animals for a law that will bring us at least a little closer to European reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u31	Good. Minister, you have the floor for the prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, thank you. Thank you, Mr Arsenis, for the question about the pets bill, which was passed in the Greek Parliament on 15 September, so relatively recently. Before I begin my answer, however, I cannot resist the temptation not to make a political comment. It goes beyond every limit of surrealism to denounce us for a delay in another register, so one aspect of this bill, when you voted against it and even now you said that it should be withdrawn. So I go to my answer, at least to inform the House of what it is about. This register is one of the seven sub-registers which are as a whole the National Register of Pets. For the first time Greece has acquired a modern, functional and complete information system for pets, as I said on 15 September, according to the terms of Law 4830/2021. This legislative initiative makes an act of our own election commitment by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis: no animal stray, no animal malicious. It has some basic elements in this register of Philozootic Unions and Organisations, which I shall analyse. Firstly, we recognise that one of the main parameters of the management of stray animals is the role and work of pro-zootic unions and pro-zootic organisations. Once obligations and rights for pro-zootic societies were introduced, they could not be fully recorded on a single basis, and this basis is the Register of Philozoozootic Associations and Organisations, in which all recognised and legally operating pro-zoozootic unions in Greece will be registered. Access will be granted to all those involved in pets, namely pet owners, municipalities, veterinary services of regions, veterinary surgeons and the relevant ministries. What do we do with that? First of all, we succeed for the first time in having a clear public picture of what pro-zootic unions and pro-zootic organisations are active in Greece. Their contact details are made accessible and the work they do in collaboration with the municipalities is known. Secondly, solid bases are established for the existence of a check that is required and to the extent necessary, and thirdly, there is a possibility of examining the need for improvement, not even for a change in the policies applied between municipalities and pro-zootic unions if their cooperation is to be recorded. With regard to the actions required for its operation, I would remind you that in accordance with Article 45 of Law 4830/2021 a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Digital Governance will be adopted which regulates the operating conditions of the National Register of Pets and all the sub-registers of which the sub-registration of pro-zootic societies and organisations is also involved. We are in close cooperation with the co-authorised Ministry of Digital Governance for the preparation of the parameters of the draft joint ministerial decision and will be adopted in the next few years. I also mention that it is mature and technically the National Register of Pets from the General Secretariat of Public Administration Information Systems of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which is responsible for the technical support and supervision of its online electronic base. The General Secretariat of Information Systems is also in cooperation with the competent persons of the Ministry of Rural Development in which the existing database, which was a subset of the national Register of Pets, is to date kept. So we are also in the final phase of the migration of this database into the National Pet Register. We all realise that a reasonable period is needed to record, design and implement all aspects of the National Pet Register. It is necessary for all these bodies to cooperate in order to be operational, effective and fast. Some of the parameters - and I thank you for your understanding, Mr President - are: The more specific design of the contents of each sub-section, the fields that this will include, the issues relating to the process of certification and the provision of access to certified users and those who gain access to the register, the issues of data transfer from the existing database - that is to say, the migration of data that I have said before - the procedure and the conditions for registering the data and the necessary supporting documents and any other relevant issue. Our aim is to make all these steps quickly and correctly and to make this National Pet Register operational and this law, of course, is to act. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u33	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, to understand, you're telling us that there's still no timetable for when the register will be completed? You abdicate us because we have voted against the law and not only have you gone through all the favorable arrangements for those who trade in animals, but you have actually excluded any possibility of protecting them from philosophers in animals through philosophers. And what are you telling us here? Instead of committing - at least - that in today's bill you will bring an amendment to a transitional provision which excludes organisations from the register at least until you complete it, so that they can protect animals, you will tell us quickly and correctly in the next few years. What's the timeline? Do you know what the timeline is? What's the immediate time? Is it a day, a week, a month, a year? What's the immediate time? And until then, not only can organisations not help with trials in favour of malpractices, but they cannot cooperate with municipalities within the framework of the operational programmes for the management of stray animals, cannot function as shelters, collect and host stray animals, participate in the five-member monitoring committee for business programmes, cannot be adopted, the importers of animals cannot be controlled without register, legally operated breeders cannot be guaranteed fines and so on. That is, at the moment, an empty in favour of criminals. I'm telling you, do you recognize the problem? You don't even have a timeline. You have today brought to the bill - so many amendments you will bring - an amendment that is transitional, which is what has been the case so far until you make your register. And for the register, yes, we're asking you to withdraw this law, but we see that the pieces that benefit traders, you've got them there. What is good for animals is put on ice, freezing anything or anything the prozoics have had, any tool that has had to defend abused animals. Bring a transitional provision today, if you say so. Otherwise, if you want to put a tombstone on the protection of animals in that country, I am sorry, but we will not let you do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. You are not a defender of animals and philosophical unions, Mr Arseni. The state must take into account all shareholders of a problem, and that is what it did with this bill. And as I said during the debate in committee and in plenary when the bill was being passed, we must take into account all of us, not just in the best way, and not just in the best way, and take some issues that may favour philosophical organisations one day, the next day, some of those people who are afraid of stray animals, and another day, anyone who is involved in their breeding. So the bill is what we have adopted and it is a law now in the state that sets out an integrated plan for the management of pets. And when I say to you 'in the next period', I do not mean the eleven years, for example, that have passed since the 'Kalikarati' law was passed, when you were a member of PASOK and yet no very important aspects have been adopted that were then provided for by exotic provisions. I am telling you, for example, that this week will be the call for the funding of EUR 40 million for the equipment, including the shelters you mentioned for the municipalities. I say to you that we will be adopting this ministerial decision at the next time together with the Ministry of Digital Governance. The record will be operational and correct, and it will be within the next few weeks, not in years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 82-18-10-2021 of the Second Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Anstinctism and armoring of the schools, restoration of damage and construction of new safe schools in Crete". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the earthquake in Crete has highlighted the total lack of earthquake shielding of school buildings, although it is well known that Crete is one of the most seismic regions in Europe. In particular, they have been damaged by many school units in almost all the municipalities of the Heraklion Regional Unit, even in other areas outside the prefecture, such as High School and High School in Jermaido Lassithi. A significant number of schools have suffered serious damage and need serious repairs. Especially in the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas, all schools have been considered inappropriate. Does anyone really think that they are giving a solution to the existing needs of the twenty-two prefix rooms that have joined the two-city Arkalochori and Thrassanos, and the additional forty are scheduled to come or three - four prefabricated rooms that came in the week that passed in the Arkalochori High School and since the students themselves have complained that they are no longer able to withstand the televised training carried out, as they say, in their rough accommodations, cars or homes with significant wearouts? Problems have already arisen with the installation or construction of the halls, for example in Thrafanos, where they entered water after a sink. There are students sharing in other schools or being temporarily transferred to other buildings inappropriate, with unacceptable operating conditions, as is the case with the 7th, 24th, the 31st Electoral School of Heraklion, the Municipal Episcopy, the School of Scotland, the High School of Jermiadou. Also, the schools of the sensitive area of special treatment, such as Tymbaki ERIC, the Special Elementary and the Arkalochori Special Preschool, remain closed, with what this entails for children and parents. The result is that, after years of indifference by all governments, there are patches to cover government deficiencies. The only thing for sure is that the bride pays it by the students, because many schools are out of the life of an educational process: Tefellion Preschool, Tefelios High School, Kamaros Municipal School, Arkalochori Special Municipal School, Gymnasium, Lyceum and PAAL Arkalochori. And the students, as I told you, are invited to participate in the lesson via Webex from the tsubics and from the cars! It is unacceptable to decide on the operation of telecommunications for secondary school pupils. There is already the experience of the two years of telemedia because of the pandemic that led to huge learning gaps. It is truly a craving, as they say by letter to you and the students of the 3rd High School Arkalochoriou and the letter of the Federation of Parents of Crete and the Parents' Associations of Schools of the 1st and 2nd Primary School, High School, Lymnasium, PES of Arkalochoriou - I will testify them in the Minutes - the fact that their children have no home, live in a family and social environment that is unable to ensure a decent standard of living, read in tents - is shameful! - and on the other hand, we're talking about tele-education. The 1st PESAL Arkalochori had a hundred and fifty children. What's gonna happen? They're waiting for housekeepers. Housekeepers don't see. The students, therefore, in the earthquake-stricken areas and especially in the Municipality of Minoa, are double homeless, with all complex psychosocial and learning problems. We ask you: How in these circumstances will the Third Class children at the end of this year be involved in the pan-Hellenic exams? So parents and students are asking for immediate solutions to the safe housing and living education of students. They demand the immediate creation of new, modern, safe buildings. For all these reasons, Minister, you must respond to what urgent action the Government will take to ensure that all appropriate infrastructures that safely meet the continuity of the lifelong training process are followed so that a lesson is not lost for an hour, according to the demands and demands of the parent movement. What is the timetable for the completion of the checks of all the schools in Heraklion and all of Crete? Ensure by state funding the full restoration of damage, the restoration to address the static problems of buildings and their earthquake protection in accordance with modern regulations and not brigades. And, at the same time, proceed immediately, in the emergency procedure, to the construction of new, modern, secure buildings with 100% state funding and not PPPs. To stop tele-education. And in particular, for High School III, you have to see it too. It also concerns the Ministry of Education, but I think it is a matter for the two ministries to cooperate. High school III should be supported by aiding teaching and a quota for these children in the pan-Hellenic exams. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will only make one comment before I reply to your last report, Mr Papoutsis. Indeed, it is an issue that we have shown in the recent past that the students of the Third High School who face such issues are there to support them. As an example of the earthquakes in Thessaly. We're in agreement. We will see what is going to happen to this case in the future, because the earthquake is not temporary, it is something which has been afflicting people for too long who lose their residences. I now come to the question. I have also referred to a previous timely question about the state's obligation to provide education to our children in safe and interactive teaching rooms. Public education is one of the state's most central obligations, so. We are not discussing the question of the compulsory existence of an efficient environment in which students are taught, but how we will all contribute to ensuring as best operating conditions as possible of the schools affected by the earthquake. Indeed, the earthquake of 27 September and the subsequent seismic activity in Crete created problems in infrastructure, resulting in a large number of schools being judged unsuitable at first instance following the rapid visual control carried out in the affected areas of the engineering of the company "Building Infrastructure". According to the data provided to us by the CBC, which I will submit in the Minutes of the Parliament, a hundred fifty - seven schools were considered appropriate and thirty - four schools inappropriate with a different rating, depending on whether they had slight, extensive or heavy damage. As far as the responsibilities of the Ministry of Interior are concerned, I would like to mention that on the next day, on 28 September, we financed the programme that we have in the Ministry of Interior for the rehabilitation of natural disasters, the Municipality of Minoa Pediadas with the sum of 800,000 euros and the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia with the sum of 200,000 euros and then new funding. We are in constant contact with the mayors, we are next to them to consider with every priority the requests that will be made to meet all their needs. With regard to the current operation of the earthquake-affected schools, I will submit in the Minutes the relevant documents of the municipalities of Crete, as well as of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. These figures show that some schools were relocated to other school or municipal buildings, twenty-two prefabricated rooms have been placed and another forty rooms are expected by the end of October. Furthermore, the repairs of the smaller losses have already begun and damage recovery work has also begun in four school units of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas after the tender of the projects concerned by the CCTP and then of course follow-up. The aim is to restore all damage as soon as possible and certainly prefabricated rooms are a temporary and only solution. However, I would also like to mention the issue of prevention. This is the beginning of a substantial solution to the problems. The issue of earthquake control is an issue that the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, we have already anticipated within the framework of the "TRITS ANTONIS" programme, where there is the AT11 call "Actions for infrastructures in need of earthquake protection" which have already included five proposals from the Minoa Pedadas, Arhanas - Asterousia, Gortyna, Anogion and Saint Vassiliou, totalling EUR 759.500. I would mention that the other proposals of the Region of Crete are also being assessed. Therefore, projects are made, financial tools exist, all state mechanisms are active and each Ministry within its competence has supported and will continue to support the affected. We must, however, understand that, in one day alone, we cannot deal with all the problems and create new buildings. In some school buildings it takes more and more attention to get proper restoration and not reeds, as you rightly said, which would jeopardise the lives of pupils and teachers. On the other hand, obviously, we understand the problem created by families and the students themselves by the change that has taken place. It is a temporary situation, but it will take some time to solve it definitively. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And one final political comment on your tolerance, Mr President. I don't think that, in your protology, you mean that the Kappa Tau can offer more homes directly and didn't do it. He works for it, and by the end of October he will offer the rest he can. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u42	Minister, I don't know if you're aware of the extent of the disaster. I gave you a size class, first of all, just for school buildings. I am not talking about others because they concern other ministries, etc. The size of the school disaster is much larger than what you have presented as a direct solution to the twenty-two precaution rooms you have sent or whatever measures you say you will take in the future. They must stop big words, because, you know, over time, all governments have forcibly forcibly committed this issue as a result, if you like, of a time-lapsed sub-funding, both of the municipalities and of the school buildings, the school committees and never, ever, ever, have there been substantial anti-Semitism studies and aids, always in accordance with the existing anti-Semitism regulation and the intervention regulation. I don't know if there are livestock registers, i.e. the elementary, the simple one. There are no land registers. What are we talking about from there? In other words, instead of the State having full responsibility and obligation for the provision of public, free of charge of modern and secure schools, the responsibility for maintenance and repairing schools has passed on to the municipalities and you are now saying that you have given the Municipality of Minoa Pedias. If anyone doesn't know and listens, he says, they gave you 800,000 euros and 200,000 euros to the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia. Nothing, shame! Shame, Mr. Minister, crumbs! It is possible with 800,000 euros and 200,000 euros respectively - look out! - to solve the problem of school buildings, to demolition prepared schools, street landslides? Here it does not want 800,000 euros, this is where it wants a lot of money, millions to meet the immediate needs. Take care of the immediate needs, not the long-term needs. It is another matter of long-term change. Even though you are pursuing such a policy, you and the previous governments are coming and dismantling the School Building Agency, did you build the "CITIAN SUBCOME S.A.", which has been completely weakened, why? Why commercialised schools should be promoted with public-private partnerships. All of this together creates a dangerous, chaotic situation for the school roof, especially now after the earthquake. The government, let me say, does not care to solve the chronic problems and strengthen the educational process, is concerned with the punishment of teachers and their dispersion in the courts, about the mergers of hundreds of thousands of departments in schools throughout the country, and even in heavy areas, such as the earthquake in Crete, which at least you should say are being suspended. You did not even do that, where, of course, we are not talking about a suspension, but about an unacceptable provision which must be abolished here and now. So this is the government's reform work. That is why the world sees with distrust what you say, because it does not see light from the promises you make, from the words said either by the ministerial seat or by television or by the goings - come to Crete and the Prime Minister, who showed the finger to the inhabitants and said "it is your fault that was built in Arkalochori." Is it the parents' fault? Is it the students' fault that the school buildings fell? What school buildings? The things that have never been delivered! These, Minister, that no contractor has ever delivered to the Greek State, and it is enough for the Prime Minister to show on the finger that it is the parents, the students, the residents of this disgrace that exists, not only in Arkalochori, but throughout the country, all over Greece. So we are reintroducing the issues, that the government must immediately ensure that all the appropriate infrastructure is in place to ensure that there is a continued lifelong training process. Do you even have to ensure free transfer of students, because they have "moved" some schools, went from one school to another, how will these people move? Shouldn't there be a metaphor? Mostly in special schools, this thing has to be done. Also, ensure free meals in schools in these areas, in the earthquake areas. None of this has been guaranteed. Of course, I am returning to the question that there must be a strengthening of teaching, in addition to homes for readings. We also keep the issue of the quota for children in the pan-Hellenic examinations. What you said, we keep it. In any case, there is a need for an integrated approach, in the short and long term, regarding the issue of school buildings in the country, especially in Crete, and especially in the earthquake area in order to solve the problems. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I think it is clear in the Chamber that when we talk about postponing control and summing up about EUR 800,000, which I said about the five municipalities in Crete, we are talking about the necessary control to indicate whether a building needs intervention if it is inappropriate and it needs to be done from the outset, of course, and we are not talking about the cost of building a school. You know, I also know from the other proposals we have and we're working on our Ministry that an eight-seat school, for example, wants 3 to 4 million euros to be built. This is not what we are talking about, we are talking about, the need to monitor, to prevent, that is, to tell us what phase our schools are in, and fortunately, after many years, we have had this possibility in the Ministry of the Interior. I told you that we have given the opportunity to all municipalities through the "ITIS ANTONIS" programme and have submitted too many proposals to control all their public buildings, including, of course, schools. This is our compass to show us what interventions need to be made. Now, for the sums in the two municipalities I said that these municipalities continue to be strengthened on the basis of all the requests they will make to us. The first sums we gave, the EUR 80 000 and the EUR 200,000, were for immediate need, without even submitting technical notes, so that these municipalities can take the measures necessary in the first few days after the earthquake. And for the rest of the issues you have raised, all the issues that come to touch on the issue of the transfer of pupils are regional issues and we are there to help it if more money is needed or whatever it takes for the transfer over the next period. Right now with Mr. Arnautakis, we don't have that. If it emerges, the Ministry of Interior is happy to be able to assist in this matter. On the subject of your quota, I said before. And for home affairs, I told you that it is a matter of the CFP's ability to offer them. I do not think anyone in this Chamber thinks that the KICYP has settlements and has them sitting in a warehouse and does not send them to an area that has been affected, such as the Arkalochori region or somewhere else in the country from any natural phenomenon. I would like to stress again that natural disasters have been done, done and done in the future. It is important how the organized state moves forward and tackles these issues. At least, with this government of Mr Mitsotakis, what we have done is to have an unprecedented speed in dealing with natural disasters in terms of infrastructure, but also an unprecedented speed through state aid and the platform we have built to compensate the affected. I think any comparison with the past proves it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The first under number 78-14-10-2021 top-level question by MP B3' South Athens Sector SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject "Directly the need for the construction of anti-military works for the recovery of the waters of Kifissos and Ilissos river will not be discussed due to lack of competence. We shall now proceed to a short stop to the sitting and return to the debate of the other topical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Series is the fourth with number 71/12-10-2021, a top-level question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Residences and businesses of “reflectors” are auctioned, despite the so-called “public guarantee” and despite the existence of a Support Fund (n.128/1975) from which they should be supported.” The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Theodoros Skakakis. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is a major issue of national and social dimensions, the issue of the Greeks who have come from Pontus since the 1990s. There was - you know, Minister - the National Institute of Reception and Rehabilitation of the Pallinosites, which promised the Pontius a housing restoration, but these promises were blown up in the air. And I say this because in the early 1990s these people settled with the Greek state's promises and guarantee as regards their housing restoration. They left their homes and came to Greece. They came to mother country, to mother - Greece. They have received the promises to enter a housing programme that will restore them either by building the Greek state itself - where this programme was only implemented by 15% to 20% - or that some EUR 39 000 plus EUR 21 000 by state aid will be granted and that this programme was not implemented in part, leaving them after 2004 and mainly after 2006 on wood hanged on these people. Nowadays most of these are in the Rhodope Prefecture, in the Evros Prefecture and in my area above all - and you know it very well - that this geographical apartment is also sensitive for national reasons as regards the composition of the population. These people today accept a payment order from the banks. For the payment order the legal framework - you know the lawyers - has changed. There can be no extension after the payment order they receive in hand and must initiate procedures to avoid an auction. So the issue is being raised, while this state aid was not being implemented, because the state is not in line with this obligation to the Pontius Greek citizens to pay this guarantee in order not to auction homes, which are not villas, is not homes that bear a luxurious living and living? They're houses in villages. There was evacuation to forty families in the Rodopi Prefecture Sapes. Four hundred families today are on the verge of getting them out of their homes because no rent is paid to the owners of the state. The situation is perpetuating and continuing. The problem is social and national because of the region. The question is whether the necessary steps will be taken to prevent auctions first. That's the basic thing. Secondly, we must implement this programme which was launched by the National Institute for Reception and Rehabilitation of Firms and Rehabilitates and has stopped. The fund does not exist. However, there are also the fund assets that could go to a draw on certain pending plots. The other question is that property titles have been pending since 2006. These people don't even have titles to property and they're in an uncertainty. They feel and experience an insecurity, but also a frustration and a great complaint from the Greek state which, in the 1990s, brought them into this program. Please, Minister, by showing a social and national sensitivity, in a sensitive area such as Thrace - for many reasons that are not here to analyse them, but you understand what I am saying, you know - that these people should be restored quickly because they are families that came to Greece, have entered a housing rehabilitation programme and have not been implemented. All the necessary steps must be taken by the state in order to safeguard these people. To preserve their first residence so that they can live. It's not that they didn't want to pay any loans. Today they are asked to pay EUR 25 000. Because of the COVID health crisis they have no job to be able to pay for these obligations. On the other hand, since there was state aid, state protection to restore housing, this programme must be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the honourable Member for his reply. I note that the issue of loans to various categories, which were granted with guarantees from the Greek State, is a difficult and serious issue because during the crisis in the memoranda we had and then during the pandemic there were attacks on the whole of society. Obviously, some of these groups too. The Greek Government is obliged if there have been legal guarantees from its point of view to the banks to pay these guarantees to the banks. This is happening more and more in the coming years as there has been a commitment to the completion of these guarantees within the next two to three years. When the completion of these guarantees is completed or as long as it is completed, the debts in question are passed on to the Greek State. If they were renegotiators who had received a loan guarantee from the Greek State, this guarantee was usually accompanied by an interest subsidy, at least from the 2004 CSR I have. There was a interest subsidy of 60% -100%. They just had to pay the capital. Therefore, they only owe the part of the capital that they have not paid. The current government, in view of the seriousness of this issue, has taken care of and included in the legislation the possibility of these citizens being part of the programme of a hundred and twenty-dollars. This enables them to actually take another decade to repay their debts, which gives a lot of time to not have auctions or too much difficulty in paying back any money that may be due. Do not forget that they have gone through since these loans were granted 15 or even twenty years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u51	Minister, this is a time-consuming facility, what you say with the hundred and twenty instalments. But now the question that arises is that they are already experiencing a major problem as they have received payment orders. The entire legal framework for handling the payment order has changed. So it's not like it was in its former state that they could wait even a few days. That is, promptly, an insult to the order of payment by the lawyers. The point is, people run to lawyers. They don't even have money to pay lawyers as mentors. The result is to experience this issue. Is the government prepared to intervene immediately in order to avoid auctioning in villages in Thrace and Macedonia? They have been experiencing it in the past few days and people have not even given them little money to make this prevention of auctioning. In the long term, of course, they are primarily responsible for having a job to bioliquidise and to be able to meet their obligations. The other issue is when the property titles that have been blocked since 2004 will be given, on the basis of the CSR you mentioned. Also, what is done with the housing program that has not been completed while there are assets from the former National Reception and Rehabilitation Foundation of Falls and Rehabilitants in the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace. Will this housing programme finally be implemented to solve their problem that has been perpetuating and ponding for many years? Secondly, it is a question of whether at this time over a hundred and twenty instalments will be able to prevent auctions. People say 'Cook if you take it than you have'. Will the state go in front of the power of the banks? Let us be realistic in the surrounding situation. Because the banks have created an economic status. And against the state situation, will the state actually be able to intervene in order to prevent auctioning? Will he even give the owners money? Why are the rentals still pending in the rental program? So it is good that you say that as a sensitivity of the state, people can be restored in housing and have their tiles. Of course, the state should be all right in its own state aid obligation for state protection. For this was co-signed in the early 1990s. But now people are already taking these orders. And now we're going to auctions. It's a phenomenon that exists and it's not just visible. So, what do we do right now? Can we prevent auctions in the first place? I imagine in a second phase we will see the financial situation of everyone, to see what will happen over a period of time for the percent of the loan they are obliged to pay. Apart from the 60% you said. Finally, is there an integrated design, is there a plan to make use of the assets existing from the former National Reception and Rehabilitation Foundation of Famous and Rehabilitated Homosexes so that those who stayed without tiles, without house, could also be restored? I repeat, I refer to the titles of property pending against these people. They are social issues to citizens who must enjoy equality and equality, to have a fair treatment. But in order to replace the relationship between the confidence of a Member State and a citizen, the State should keep its promises, keep what it had said since the 1990s when these expatriates were repatriated to the motherland. They must also preserve the composition of the population in this region. Of course, the children who were born here do not have this bitterness, this complaint, this discontent to Greece, to the state itself for what they promised them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u52	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u53	In relation to the auctions and legal expenses, our fellow citizens must also be aware of this, and obviously the House is now aware that there is the famous out-of-court compromise, which enables, without any threat of auctioning and without legal costs, by recourse to the platform, but with transparency in relation to the real assets, to be able to make a regulation to the banks - there is also regulation to the IAEA - with up to four hundred and twenty instalments and to delete both the part of the basic debt and the interest. The process is carried out through a digital platform automatically for the public and the banks, and if the debtor so wishes, he can use the services of a certified intermediary in terms of his private debt. In this way and given that there is, in addition, five years and state subsidy for the loan of vulnerable households up to EUR 210, they can solve the immediate problem you are referring to, which is where their debt is to the banks. As far as the public debt is concerned - which, as the guarantees perpetuate more and more, the debts will be directed towards the public - there is a corresponding possibility through the extrajudicial platform. They are without legal costs and citizens, who have a problem, must take advantage of it because the aid given is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now we will discuss the second question, number 90/18-10-2021, first question from the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'To include all the settlements and earthquakes affected by the earthquakes on the platform of arogi.gov.gr - advance payments'. The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know the results of the catastrophic earthquake of 27 September, but not just. They had preceded earthquakes that had caused smaller, of course, damages and metastases that have caused additional problems in buildings, infrastructure and everything related to economic and social activity. Rehabilitation, economic and social reconstruction in the region needs a comprehensive plan. The government needs to see them as a whole, and not every ministry alone, only its responsibilities. This is a very important issue, which I have raised from the outset. It's not enough housing restoration. It is, of course, a prerequisite, but it is progressing with problems too. It is not enough to support the individual aid. We need to see how the region is to be rebuilt and to support the situation as a whole, because a month after things are much worse, even though some procedures have been initiated. I must tell you that the issues I raised with my question about the integration of settlements have gone ahead, but the problems with the platform continue to be many. Additional documents have been received - the first or second control paper - and the question is whether applications already submitted need to be made immediately. And how, in any case, will the people to whom control has not yet gone to serve? Individual homes - apart from the settlements that have been designated - have been asked to join and go to control, and that has not been done. The aftermath, of course, goes on and what I wanted to ask you, beyond the question and the substance, is that, on the one hand, there must be information on the schedule of payments on the basis of the requests from the week - that is, on the other hand, when the payments are made - and on the other hand, the second issue that has arisen - and is not included in the question - is that, once it has been requested to be made centrally at the Ministry with additional documents, there is a direct bearing on the issue of the creation of a seismic service on the spot. The on-site service will solve too many issues. It has been set up in other areas, and it is a request that you should satisfy to facilitate the work of the Government and of the other co-responsible services. Finally, I would like to point out something on which I have tabled a timely question today to be discussed next week. Businesses, workers and professionals have zero activity, do not have a living and therefore need a special programme for these categories in order to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, I will fully agree with you on the need for coordination and a comprehensive plan, so as to address the unfavourable economic and social consequences of frequent occurrence of natural phenomena. And I think that society is aware of it too, and you indirectly implied it, that there is a significant improvement in the past. So we need coordination, speed and security. In the case of the catastrophic earthquakes in Crete, again, we have introduced very quickly specific provisions on state aid to natural and legal persons affected and have promoted the implementation of targeted economic measures to support affected and restore the region. I do accept that your printing is correct, but that also shows the speed of the government. When you asked me the question, you said that on Friday, 8 October, four hundred 14 beneficiaries had already been compensated. Today, in less than a month, a thousand fifty-nine beneficiaries have been compensated for EUR 8.4 million. This has never been done before. This speed, in other words, compensation for first state aid. And where is this first state aid based? Basically, on some pillars. The first pillar, as you know, is the government's choice to grant first aid for housing assistance to the buildings affected by the earthquake. What's that help height? EUR 14 000, EUR 8 000 or EUR 3 000, depending on the size of the estimated losses. So who are the beneficiaries here? Here are the owners of residential and other non-professional buildings damaged by the earthquake on the basis of the assets, i.e. the statement of E9. The second major category of direct state aid is building compensation to natural persons with the sum of EUR 6,000, EUR 4,000 or EUR 2,000, depending on the size of the damage. Who are the beneficiaries? Natural persons using real estate as principal or secondary residence. And the third pillar is the granting of first aid against a grant for damage to equipment and production facilities of EUR 8,000, EUR 4,000 or EUR 2,000, depending on the size of the losses in various facilities. You asked me, then, two days after the platform was opened. The platform opened on 6 October, and at first, on 8 October, the first four hundred fourteen had been compensated, as is correct in your question, for some geographical areas of Heraklion in the area of Crete, and you are right to say that we should move very quickly so as to cover other areas or later phenomena. And in a second phase, as has already been announced, under relevant ministerial decisions on which I will speak in my dentistry, the Ministry of Finance proceeded to extend the platform to those affected in other areas, which have been hit by the earthquake and have so far not joined the perimeter of the beneficiaries of first aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as I have said, individual aid and compensation are provided for restoration. You have agreed, and so we agree and the local society agree that it is not enough if there is no complete plan and coordination of services, even though the advances themselves have problems and cannot deal with the issue. We must say that reconstruction cannot proceed for many and various reasons. It is more than just paperwork. The town plans are in the middle, there are land that is ploughed and must be given. There are settlements without urban planning which need to be built on new areas to integrate. It needs a broader plan that starts from spatial planning. As far as your responsibilities are concerned, however, I should like, in particular, to point out that you can also contribute to the creation of the Seismopliers' on-site Rehabilitation Service on the part of the Ministry of Finance, although it seems to be the institution that belongs to the Ministry of Infrastructure. The second thing you need to see right away is why the EUR 8 000 came in, and the compensation of EUR 14 000 is foreseen. The second payment was made with a horizontal cap of 8,000 euros. They weren't paid any more. There was a horizontal cut. The third thing you need to see and review is why they're not separate stores and homes. So when someone has a home and a store and his store is with the warehouse a hundred and fifty meters, he doesn't get a home allowance. He'll have to separate the house from the store. We have a property that is for the housing of our family and a store that is for our survival. Do we have to choose? We're either staying on stage and having a store or staying at home, and we're not going to have work to do! You can't do that. It's a problem. He's put a hundred-five-square-square cap on all the buildings that have been damaged by an owner. If this separation takes place at the top of a hundred and fifty squares, I think it's covered. And I mean, of course, that 50 percent is about state aid of 80%, because lending is also given to over 50 square blocks of buildings that need to be restored. We're talking about state aid, state assistance. We have a matter with the heirs who want at least six months to make the procedure for acceptance of inheritance and go to their name to the property. I think there should be a provision, since all heirs based on the family status extract consent and empower one to be the manager, that this arrangement should be made so that we do not wait six months for the other bureaucratic procedure of acceptance of inheritance and the rest. It is something that can be done safely without creating problems. There are too many issues, but I do not want to tire you. But I would like you to look closely at all of what we have sent you - and I will present you with more - and also to see the question of restoring the lost or part of the lost income of professional businesses and, of course, of supporting workers with special purpose compensation. He's on the air. Others are fired, others are not fired. But they have no income to survive. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u60	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think that with the first aid we have introduced since the fires in the summer, we have essentially reduced the bureaucratic procedures. That's enough of an application. But be careful, as I have said in my protology, it needs to be done safely, because we need to check where the Greek taxpayer's resources are going. And I will come back to another parliamentary question today on this matter. Proof of the speed and limitation of bureaucratic procedures, without meaning that there is a complete elimination or without meaning that there are no cases that you have shown in your dentistry, is that in less than one month we have made two systematic payments and systemic payments in Crete, which amount to as I have told you to the thousands of fifty nine citizens. In less than a month they have been compensated. They have, that is, 8.4m euros. But I also said in my protology that this is where he wants a little attention. You said it to your question, but she wants a cross-check. The amount of the first housing aid is offset by the final amount of housing aid to be determined by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, while the amount of the first grant to compensate for losses incurred by enterprises is offset by the amount of the grant, as determined by the Ministry of Finance - following the recording of losses by the State Aid Committees. And yes, as I told you in my prology - and you asked it through your question - three joint ministerial decisions were published in the Official Journal of the Government on 22 October by the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, which proceeded with the second phase of the procedure - you were right to ask the Government to move quickly - and the perimeter of the beneficiaries affected by the earthquake in the Region of Crete, who wish to receive support through the 'arogi.gov.gr' platform. I repeat it publicly because he received a press release from the Treasury just on Saturday. So it's the first public position on this. The financial staff with the contribution of the Independent Public Revenue Authority announced the extension on Saturday of the operation of the online platform to submit applications for the support measures. In particular, from 22 October, an application on the platform may be submitted, first for an advance on a grant for damages to equipment and production facilities throughout the municipality of Minoa Pediada and additional areas of the Municipality of Ancient Asterousia, which have so far not been included in the perimeter, second for construction compensation to natural persons in other areas of Crete that have been delimited and set in an emergency situation and, thirdly, for an advance on housing assistance to landlords with damage due to earthquake in other areas of Crete that have been demarcated and put in emergency. In order to better and fairer distribution of support to the beneficiaries affected, as the automation process of the relevant services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has been considerably advanced by the relevant departments of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - and here comes your concern, Mr President - in the second phase for the payment of aid, all the beneficiaries will have to submit the following two elements: the Re-control of the property by the relevant Services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, with which the building has been deemed to be'red', 'yellow' or 'green' depending on the size of the damage and, secondly, the Rapid Property Automation Bulletin by the relevant Services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with which the building has been found to be non-residentable if no re-control has been carried out. These documents, as will be updated by a personalised message from the ADP, should also be submitted in the next few days by the beneficiaries who have applied to date, whether or not they have already received the aid of first aid. The possibility of amending the application is also allowed. When does the deadline end? It shall be extended until 15 November 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u62	We continue with the third with number 91/18-10-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Thessaloniki, indirect privatisation of water and sewerage". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, the founding law of the HSY provides specifically that the company, the Thessaloniki Landscaping Corporation, has the exclusive right to provide water and sewerage services in the geographical areas in which its activity extends. Furthermore, in the second paragraph, it is specified that this right is unrestricted and intransigent, that the duration of the right is 30 years, etc. This is why, with great surprise, we read the communication from the EHSTH on green light in the gradual transfer of the operation of water supply and sewerage infrastructures from the Thessaloniki industrial area to ETVA which now belongs to Piraeus Bank. As the signature of the Confidentiality Agreement is the first step of cooperation between the two actors - listen to the objective - in order to bring the whole operation of the infrastructure of BIPE Thessaloniki to the ownership of ETVA. And here, first of all, we want you to tell us how it is possible to violate the founding law of the U.S.H.E.L.D.? Secondly, we want you to tell us whether the agreement includes water. Thirdly, what is ETVA's management capacity to carry out the management of such a project, the privatisation of water and water supply, the drainage of the water from the Thessaloniki BIP? And answer us how it is possible after S.H.I.E.L.D.'s answering decisions. Proceed to privatize the water? And I'll remind you here that S.H.E.'s decision. Both the previous and the last in Section IV had considered the conversion into a private enterprise and the transfer of the EEAS and the EEAS. What for? Because it considers that the work of these enterprises cannot be broken up against the public good that is water. You're clearly tearing it apart. Please, we need convincing answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u65	Mr Colleague, first of all, I would like to point out that the possibility of cooperation between the EEAS and ETVA BIP is being investigated and under no circumstances according to the information I have received from the administration has yet to be agreed. In fact, however, there is a mutual intention that the EEAS and ETVA BIP to manage the water supply and sewerage of BIP - I in Thessaloniki - ending the ineffective, as it has so far been shown, of a regime in which the management of purely industrial waste was entrusted to EEAS. Specifically in line with the design designed to address the major issue and problem of the aggravating environmental function of tanneries at the western entrance of Thessaloniki, the relocation of these enterprises to BIPI - I and the withdrawal of the management of liquid industrial waste from the recommendation at the time of the establishment of the EEAS was envisaged. Indeed, following the creation of the ETVA, and its successor ETVA BIPI ceased to provide sewerage services to the BIPI - I industries, but maintained all its other responsibilities as management and management body. ETVA BIP also retained ownership of the waste purification plant, which has so far been owned by ETVA. Consequently, the waste purification plant does not belong to the IAEA, so there is no question of granting and violating its founding law. The above-mentioned design proved in practice to be dysfunctional and cost-effective for the HNDH mainly because the dimensionation of the waste water treatment plant in Thessaloniki did not allow for the receipt and treatment of industrial waste in volume and quality produced by the industries of BIP - I. At the same time, significant improvements are needed in water supply infrastructure, networks, pumps, hydrometers in which neither the EEAS nor ETVA BIP are capable of investing. The NSA because it does not own the infrastructure, and ETVA BIP because it does not have the operational exploitation of these infrastructures. The EBRD shall also not have the operational organisation and access to business data for proportionate allocation and recovery of industrial waste management costs. Finally, it is noted that the removal from the operation of the waste purification plant has been a consistent objective of all NGAA administrations since 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u66	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, what you're telling us is that there's just a mutual intent investigation that doesn't come from the announcement and the press release of the U.S.S.H.S.A. I'm reading it again. I read precisely what has been written: "The signing of the Agreement is the first step of cooperation between the two institutions in order to bring about the ownership of ETVA BIP the whole operation of the infrastructure of BIP Thessaloniki". We are talking here clearly not about research, but about a decision in two stages of implementation. And I will repeat to you because the founding law of the NSATH is clear that no part of the water management and drainage on its territory is allowed to be lost. Is it or not a piece that was on its territory and is it in its management by the founding law of 2001 and so far at least? How do you allow this law to be violated? Of course, the question is rhetorical, because we do not forget that your Government is making progress by privatising EYDAP Pagion, all the external water supply network of the city of Athens, four hundred kilometers of springs, lakes, pipelines, wells that carry water with the right to bottling sources. Governments proceeded through PPP with the Habria dam in Thessaloniki. Of course you want to proceed in every way with the privatisation of the water of Thessaloniki and Athens, even though Lyon is the seat of the multinational water "SUEZ", which is the main water suitor in our country, re-states the water of the city. Even at the seat of "SWEZ" they re-state the water and we want to sell it in every way. Now we see this scenario to be completed with what you are planning in BIP. If there are problems in the functioning of BIP, on the part of the EEAS, the EEAS should be strengthened to fulfil its obligations under the law. To go ahead with the concession of the rights of the NGAA with regard to exclusive management of water, sewerage, I think it serves political purposes, in no case respects the law or the decisions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u68	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. You started by saying and reading a quote for a deal. You said the 'agreement', you just forgot a word 'confidentiality agreement', not an agreement, a confidentiality agreement. In your oral speech, you did not say so in the written speech. Other ‘agreement’ and other ‘confidentiality agreement’. Therefore, Mr President, with the cooperation being discussed, it is estimated that rationalisation will take place in the operation of water supply, because you have asked me and what is the objective and the purpose of sewering BIP - I, because firstly, the IAEA will no longer be responsible for an activity that evads its social and business mission. Secondly, all the services provided to BIP - I will come to one of the most competent bodies, namely ETVA BIP, which has the relevant know-how since it built the networks in the BIP - I, was operating until 2003 in the area of sewerage and manages a number of different BIPs throughout the country, such as Patras and Heraklion. Finally, thirdly, companies will be served by modernised infrastructures which are designed exclusively for their own industrial activity with self-evident cost rationalisation and improvement of the services provided. Finally, it should be noted that the current operating scheme is financially injurious to the NSAH, in fact leading to the grant by the household and commercial consumers of Thessaloniki of the sewerage of industrial undertakings. In the context of its strategic development plan, the EHSH is asked to focus on the implementation of its main object by making available its financial and human resources for the expansion of water supply and sewerage in the Thessaloniki urban complex and the neighbouring municipalities, which have been seeking to join the NHS network for years. To conclude and because it is your concern, I would like to stress and repeat that, as I have shown you, the conditions under which the confidentiality agreement is being investigated will only be fulfilled if due consideration has been given to the fulfilment of the objectives I mentioned before. And the relevant letter I received on 6-10-2021 from the administration of the NSA confirms it: ‘In any case, the terms of which the confidentiality agreement is being investigated will be implemented only if the fulfilment of the above objectives is duly substantiated.’ With the signed agreement, therefore, both parties agreed, as usual, that any economic and technical data exchange for documentation needs should be covered by a confidentiality clause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 89/18-10-2021 topical question by MP 2 West Attica of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Catholic depreciation of the Public Defence Industry through the vertical fall in the production of all the UAA factories and the mass redundancies of the modern factories of the Aegean." Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the issue of the Hellenic Defence Systems is perhaps the top example of a course of depreciation of the country's defence industry as a whole since the new administration set out by the present government. Let me remind you here that the CEO is a wife to the director of the Minister, Mr. Adonis Georgiadis. I don't know if that's the criterion, but he's a graduate of German literature. The Greek Defence Systems in 2019 had forty million tolerable contracts, contracts that had been chased the previous period by the previous administration. In 2019 they had a turnover of 31 million and, in fact, at falsified costs. This could have been proven, if it had been answered - and we are still waiting to answer - the timely question of seven SYRIZA Members since February 2021. There was, in fact, a rise in turnover for 2020 to 45 million. Instead of this turnover, this administration, although the financial statements have not yet been approved, nor in 2020, according to the statement by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Skylakakis in October 2021, has only a monthly turnover of 4 million, i.e. 13% of the 2019 turnover. Her problems are a lot. It does not undertake any new contracts either from the inside or from the outside. In fact, the Ministry of Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, only last October, spoke of many millions of contracts, that is, two and a half years after the new government had taken over. It is not sourced of raw materials. I will tell you attributes, although I cannot go into detail on a programme of 41 million that has been announced in the Committee on Equipment for a specific weapon. It is something the Greek Defence Systems have produced in the recent past and they are unable to produce at the moment. Perhaps it has something to do with taking the raw materials. The question of the absence of raw materials has been raised by the Minister of National Defence himself, Mr Panagiotopoulos. At the same time, there is a launch of the cost of secondary services which, to a very little extent, require the Hellenic Defence Systems. I would like to say to you that, as far as guarding is concerned, there have been 900,000 per year competitions in the past. There's been a competition for 4.5 million a year. I mean, instead of 2,700,000, for 4.5 million. The competition is not complete and until then they pay the NSAs 2.5 million instead of 900,000 per year. The same applies to a number of other services. With regard to contracts which have so far appeared, it is a very small agreement with Egypt of 3 million, which is even under a commitment to execution within a six-month period at risk of being declared inferior. Another contract for helmets, in which the subcontractor instead of 70%, will take over 90% of the work, leaving only a million to ten. 10% of the UAA contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm going to tell you a typical example of the Hypothet. I do not go into the question of whether or not they should leave, etc. It is known to everyone that there is no relocation plan, at the same time as ordering studies that will pay the Greek Defence Systems themselves for printing the facilities to be delivered to the private investor. There's no relocation plan for the NSAs themselves that have to leave the area. I'm ending up saying this. Although enough money has been provided to the NSAs, which touches 60m euros by Sub-PIC, this money is not channelled into the direction of buying raw materials and rebuilding the company for new contracts, but is channelled to secondary services that no one has anything to do with the company's development perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Colleague, you will allow me to capture the reality. You said that NSAs were deceived in the current administration. You will allow me to submit a statement to remain in the Minutes. The NSAs from 12-2-2004 have cost the Greek budget and taxpayers 1,3 billion euros, 1.3 billion euros! Actually, 1,197,314,280. So, if it were so idyllic, why 16-10-15, 22-10-16, 20-11-2017, 17-9-18 again 17-9-18 did you do the cash and debt capitalisation of the company? He's going to say something was wrong with the company's operation. So here we have a company with many time problems that have not been adequately dealt with by any government. We must be honest, 1,3 billion euros! The current government - I want to make it clear - is aimed at the effective functioning of the NSAs, rather than their reappointment, as you have written in your question or actually repeated in your speech. Unless you're judging the weirdo yourself. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Today we have specific initiatives. It's not 60 million, Mr. Comrade. Since September 2019, the company has been strengthened with EUR 150 million, of which EUR 100 million relate to capitalisation of debts from the sale of guaranteed loans and 50 constitute a direct cash payment. The last EUR 13,4 million capital aid was made in April 2021 and a new increase in the company’s share capital of EUR 29 million was announced to meet its needs, of which EUR 15 million will be directed towards the repayment of obligations to third parties, EUR 4 million for operational needs and EUR 10 million for the supply of raw materials. At the same time - you mentioned this - the Ministry of National Defence has launched the planned procedures for the award and implementation of orders to the company of EUR 115 million. Subsequently, negotiations between the GFCM and the NSA concerning the needs and requirements of the Armed Forces and the company's production capacities have been agreed on a specific production plan, which has a strict delivery horizon in the five years and which will start to be implemented immediately and progressively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the overall problem of the defence industry is well known. You're right to refer to 2004 and go back. Indeed, since the 2000s, there has been a leap in the defence industry as a whole, in the state, whether it concerns shipyards, EAWs, NSAs or other companies. It is clear that there has been an attempt to reconstruct in 2015-2019 with some results, but unfortunately, today we are seeing a reversal course. What I am telling you - and I do not doubt that the NSAs were in trouble when we received in 2015 and continued to some extent, things do not change from one day to the next - is that there is no policy on the part of the government and because of structural problems, but also because of the choices made by the current government, to reconstruct these businesses. In other words, the issue that you did not answer, for example, is at all why they do not take on and try to take on new contracts and participate in a competition with NCAs. That's not what you're answering. If we wait for the Ministry of Defence - if that was the government's policy - steps should have been taken already in 2019. This was announced just last month by the Minister, Mr. Panayotopoulos, and nothing has happened yet. In practical terms, that is, no awards or contract have been awarded to the Hellenic Defence Systems at all. At the same time, NSAs do not buy raw materials, despite the millions that the Sub-PIC has given, and have launched the costs that they do not need to launch: security companies, audio conversion into images and various other secondary services that, apologise, have a scandal smell. That's what you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. This government has hidden no problem under the carpet. You suggested depreciation of assets. I would like to say to you - because we all have a route in this Chamber - that many time-consuming problems that the country had and, less or less, have not been dealt with in the past, we are trying to best deal with them for the benefit of the Greek citizen. ELVO, Scaramaga shipyard, EAS, EAB, LARCO: All these assets are trying to deal with them and we have already recorded concrete successes, with significant private interest, in some of those that cost many billions of euros to taxpayers. I would like to point out, however, because you are coming back to this on the basis of a reduction in turnover for 2021, a number of issues. You are well aware - it seems - of the effect of the coronary pandemic - and the Minister, Mr Panayotopoulos, has answered, for that reason - the last year and a half in the supply chain and production process worldwide because of the restrictive measures that have existed. This effect has inevitably led to the delay in the receipt of raw materials at international level with chain effects. This development could not leave NSAs unaffected when it has influenced globally powerful industrial colosses. According to the company this year, the turnover is expected to reach 11.5m euros, despite the effect of the pandemic, about the same amount as in 2018 - then it was 13.3m euros - for your day, without having a pandemic at that time. I must remind you - because you are also coming back to this - the situation in which you have handed over the company for which you are allegedly showing an exceptional interest today, 'the pillar of the Greek Defence Industry' as you mentioned. SYRIZA delivered him - I did not want to dive in the past, but you are coming back - into paralysis. In December 2019, at the end of the year - obviously earlier, but at the end of the year - the new administration received the company with non-destructive cash; they did not allow it to pay even the wages of workers in the midst of other issues of mismanagement over your days, the very workers you allegedly support and for whom you are calling for an increase in turnover, an increase which you did not manage to carry out as you have never achieved or completed the contracts that the company had concluded. For example - because you are causing me - the following: First, the 2016 United Arab Emirates Convention has never been implemented and the company has been obliged to repay the advance of EUR 2.2 million. Secondly, the Convention on Ammunition 7662 with the Government of Bangladesh has been completed lately - 2020 - which has led to the company being damaged. Third, the contract with the Tunisian Ministry of Defence in 2018 was disabled immediately after its conclusion by the then administration and was reactivated by the new administration, the current administration. Therefore, when the new administration took over, it found three major inactive contracts, on its own initiative. Mr Colleague, for the first time the company for the important supplies is currently launching international electronic tenders, for the first time there are posts and entries in the 'DENMARK', putting an end to the roughness and reduced transparency of the past and for the first time since 2008 - as we have been informed - the employees of the NCAs have concluded a collective labour contract. To conclude, Mr President, I note that the company's costs are not increased - as you say, Mr President - clearly and unmistakably. The company's operating costs were reduced - I have the relevant table here - from EUR 46 000 000 in 2018 to EUR 38 000 000 in 2019 and to EUR 34 000 000 in 2020. Of course, there are serious structural problems in the company, but for which you have done nothing to solve them. Today the company gradually develops a different path in relation to the past with the assistance of the two ministries. However - and I want to be quite clear - more action is needed on the part of the company to stop relying only on liquidity injections of the Greek State and orders from the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u80	We are now moving on to the fifth under number 83/18-10-2021, a topical question from the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Finance, on "Direct measures to support the affected and compensation to 100% of the damage caused by the earthquake in Crete". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the destruction of the recent major earthquake in Crete is, in fact, huge, with hundreds of homeless people, with people who have lost their jobs, their income. They are people of labor and work, workers, self-employed professionals, farmers, unemployed. And, of course, the meta Seizures make it even more difficult for the already difficult situation in which they have come. Let me break my position in two - protagonists and dents - in relation to the questions about the economy of time, because there are many issues that arise. First of all, in relation to financial support to meet immediate living needs: You know, a month has passed since the earthquake and none of them have taken any cents - notice it, not even cents! - by the Government as exceptional financial aid to cover the first needs. Not a cent! And I think I'm clear about what I'm saying. Well, did you wonder how they live? Meanwhile, they continue to pay normally the pending doses of HISBIA, water, telephone, other obligations, as if nothing had happened. And I ask you now: EUR 400 retired people, EUR 300, how will they meet the needs of the earthquake, how will they pay their debts, how will they take medicines with these pseudo pensions you have left? The same applies to workers, many of whom are faced with unemployment due to the closure or possible closure of the company as a result of the earthquake. It was a bad call, the earthquake came, and it knocked them out. No care has yet been taken as to whether there will be financial support for lost income. Self-employed, small freelance professionals, farmers. The catastrophe, as a result of many of them, is doubtful to return to their professional activity. Even those stores that work, they are in huge uncertainty, since the cigarette has fallen vertically and do not know what they will do with the orders, with the suppliers who are pressing. What they request as first breath, in addition to the application procedure in the region, for damages to their businesses, is that they be given exceptional financial support to the amount of their lost turnover. Clear? Clearly, the request is very clear. Also, there are workers who have been unemployed from one moment to the next or have not found jobs while they had found before the earthquake and claim an increased allowance. Almost a month later, you haven't said anything about all the above. Aren't you concerned about this matter? So we ask you, Minister: Firstly, what urgent actions and what timetables will the government make to make for exceptional financial support for the loss of income, taking account of the number of family members, in order to ensure for as long as necessary an income for all the affected, an increased unemployment benefit for all the unemployed, so that no dismissal can be made on the grounds of natural disaster, because we have this issue as well. Secondly, they should not simply suspend debts in respect of taxes, banks, obligations in PPC, on the phone, in water, in the auction, in order to abolish HPAI and the trade fee, exemption from the payment of individual insurance contributions for six months and their grant by the state and not to refund the amount of the repayable advance for those with an annual income of less than EUR 12 000. And one last thing, which people have put to me, is state aid: creating a service, an annex I would say, of natural disaster services in the area so that people can be served. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, you will allow me to disagree that there has not been a single cent to any citizen in Crete affected by the catastrophic earthquakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u84	That's not the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u85	I have specific details to say to you: in the account of a thousand fifty-nine of our compatriots, a unit of VAT, 8.4 million euros have been credited. That's not questionable. And if you want, I can give you an analysis of this. For example, on 18 October when the second credit was made, three hundred and twenty-four were the beneficiaries who, as a housing advance, received EUR 2 million and thirty-one were the beneficiaries of a grant to enterprises of EUR 992 000. So, in order to be able to come to an agreement, important resources, quickly, in time as first aid, as extraordinary financial aid have gone to Crete in less than a month. In your question whether there should be a systematic payment, the answer is affirmative and already, since the platform opened on 6 October, there have been two payments of money and I know from communication with our compatriots in Crete, in the capacity of the Minister of Finance, that the funds have actually gone to these thousands of fifty nine. I will return to a question that you did not raise, but it is in your written text on not taking any conditions or conditions to grant a variety of money. I will reiterate the key pillars on which what you say 'extreme financial support' of these compatriots is based. It is the provision of housing assistance to natural and legal persons to restore buildings which consist of 80% free state aid and 20% interest-free loan with the guarantee of the Greek State. It is only a simple request from the citizen to arogi.gov.gr of EUR 14,000, or to provide housing compensation and cover the first needs of households affected through the same platform of EUR 6,000. It is the suspension of all outstanding accredited and due tax liabilities for enterprises and natural persons for six months. They are the credit obligations with the initiatives taken by the Greek Banking Union. It is to facilitate the payment of insurance contributions to insurance institutions. So, as I understand that you will have a second part, which will be complementary, in the first part of the question concerning 'extreme financial support' to natural persons to meet the first needs arising from the adverse consequences of a strong earthquake in Crete, the government's answer is clear, is forward, is strong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u87	Minister, with all due respect to you, you probably haven't been properly informed. I am telling you this because the questions we raised in the prototype were very clear. We're talking about emergency financial assistance. What you mentioned is part of the state aid compensation for the buildings. One more, the other one. They haven't taken a penny of sacks as extraordinary financial support. I'm very clear. From there on as far as the compensation you have announced is concerned, first of all, an incredible bureaucracy under the terms and conditions required, an incredible confusion caused by the incomplete supplementary and clarificational FEKs, what is in place and what is not the case, how many are entitled to compensation and how much, whether or not the money that has entered the accounts can be raised or not, and whether they are being raised and then asked to return them, what is being done. So this money you put in isn't exceptional financial support. Not to be fooled now. Secondly, they are inadequate in the face of the scale of disasters. The VEKs that joined the earthquake-stricken areas in the emergency status have not been placed on the online platform arogi.gov.gr, so many villages have remained outside the compensation scheme. You're saying it's going to solve the problem. Even so, why is that delay? Even in these settlements that have been incorporated into the system, such as Arkalochori, the same family may appear the property to one brother and the other brother not to be seen. Some, that is, they cannot identify their real estate within the system. In addition, you say that 80% is a state subsidy and the rest is an interest-free mortgage loan that burdens the owner. Really? Who can put a mortgage and which bank will grant it a loan under these special and general economic conditions. The new FEK also sets limits on housing allowances, specifying that it finances houses up to a hundred square meters instead of all of their property and delimits a specific compensation cap per square metre. So if, for example, a building or two hundred and fifty square meters has been destroyed, it will be compensated for the hundred and fifty. For the rest, who's going to compensate him? Or will you send him to the bank for a loan? With regard to the infamous advances credited to accounts, those who have received them cannot disburse them after they have to wait for final audit, secondary, hand in the pocket for tariffs and for paradoxes, produce a file with a work budget, building or repair permit, E9 etc. What can I tell you now? In the meantime, it has become a rule that IASC workshops - I stress it - are command and despite the reactions of service engineers that are not suitable for the first control of buildings, that is, yellow buildings, are converted into green, i.e. residential. Inadmissible! We denounce it in here. Get in position. Many have suffered non-structural but, significant, non-hazardous damages posed a risk to their lives. What about them? Will they be compensated? Who's charging them? What if the advance payment of these injured persons has been credited to the accounts will they be invited to return them? And if they've spent them on other needs - and we're right to say, why are we making the proposal for a special purpose allowance - are they going to be called out to the beggar to return them or get fines or take them chained in? They are questions that arise, Minister. And if the cost of the compensation is lower than the set scales, what is foreseen for the remaining amount of the financial aid? Finally, for the demolitions, the earthquake has levelled everything and so far has not even been demolished, and the safety of the inhabitants is at risk. And not only that, but they gave up 800 grand to the Municipality of Arkalochori to demolition and in the meantime there have been some atrocious professionals who say to demolition, that is, 70,000 to 120,000 of the building. This is a party, a fair, a business in the area of Arkalochori. So we invite you, Minister, to answer whether there will be a direct record of the damage to secondary control. Enlarge and control irregularities made during secondary control for the conversion of buildings from non-residential buildings.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u88	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u89	Secondly, and I conclude, Mr President, with regard to compensation for all those affected in a short time, for 100% of the damage, without conditions and conditions, without being financially burdened for loans, paradoxically, engineers, building permits, etc. And finally, the process of demolition for fixed buildings and the transport of booby to be carried out at the expense of the state without any charge of seismopliers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Synciergi, that's a question, that's not a question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u91	Mr Colleague, thank you very much for your dentistry, you are helping me to complete my initial thoughts a little bit. You talked about bureaucracy. I do not remember, and the President is a very experienced parliamentarian, never in the past in a natural disaster to be compensated in twenty days in over a thousand of our compatriots. Never in the past! Second point: the framework for state aid also applies to the destructive fires in the summer. No party then made a statement that the measures are not sufficient. Now you're saying bring in, but give me some more. You say that the 14,000 who gives your compatriots in Crete the state, the Greek taxpayer, that is - the Greek taxpayer gives another Greek taxpayer 14,000 - that this is no help, that is something else needs. I don't understand the definitions. 14,000 have been credited to your compatriots in Crete and to many of our other compatriots throughout Greece who have actually suffered huge disasters. You said that I mentioned that the question of extending the scope of the potential beneficiaries of this state aid will be resolved. I didn't say we'd do it. I said we did it, and I'll testify to it in the Minutes on the 22nd month. On the 22nd of the month, there is a joint ministerial decision with all the specific features, which is why you gave me the opportunity to highlight them today. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'll also close my position with a lead I gave you. The amount of the first housing aid is actually offset by the final amount of housing aid to be determined by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. So you referred to your question on some issues where the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has been speeding up. The amount of the first grant aid for loss recovery in enterprises shall be offset by the amount of the grant as determined by the Ministry of Finance following the recording of losses by the State aid committees. Where the recipient of the aid is not finally deemed to be a beneficiary, or where the amount to be entitled is less, the excess amount shall be refunded. In the event of a false declaration, the aid shall be repaid to the Greek State. And, colleague, in your question, and repeat it in your dentistry, you say that money should be given without conditions. No, Mr. Colleague, there will be conditions and conditions. Because we have to respect taxpayers' money. On the fires of August there is a municipality in the Achaea area where the controls showed destruction in twenty-eight houses and there have been two hundred fifty-five applications. There are municipalities, two municipalities, in eastern Attica, where the controls showed damage to four hundred thirty-nine and thirty-five houses, and the applications are a thousand hundred and thirty-six and a thousand fifty. There are municipalities in Elias where in one of the disasters are in six houses and there have been five hundred and thirty-two applications. Evidently, therefore, Greek taxpayers' money will also be granted on terms and conditions, contrary to what you say, because we have to respect Greek taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u92	We are closing today's debate with the sixth question under number 84/18-10-2021, on the second question of the Achaias MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, on the subject: "The redundancies of thirty-six workers in the Greek Weapons Industry (EVO) in Agios". Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, Minister, let me have a bridge with the previous question. The Communist Party of Greece did not agree with the framework of aid for the firefighters and the firefighters themselves do not agree, which is why they are making pan-Hellenic mobilisation on November 6, in Athens, firefighting, flooding and earthquakes. Because exactly these packages are very few. And secondly, when the JRC says without conditions and conditions it speaks of those who have been damaged. Because there are a number of exceptions that exclude people who have suffered destruction from being compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u94	Don't ask the previous question again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u95	No, I say that to make it clear, Mr President, that there are no impressions. Because the Minister knows very well when we say 'without terms and conditions' what we mean. Not for false statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u96	Okay, but now that's not stylish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u97	Let's go to the question, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u98	I'm giving you the time and I'm giving you the one minute you've eaten for the previous question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. You spoke, Minister, in answer to a previous question from a colleague from SYRIZA about NSAs, and you said that you wanted the operation to be effective. But what happens at the Egyptian factory in EBO, Egypt, shows another thing. On 3-8, and put it in chronological order, it was decided to extend a contract signed since 2017 with ONEX for another four months from 1-9 to 31-12 to complete a project undertaken by that company in the context of the operation of EBO. On 16-9, that is, a month and a half, then the Director General of the Defence Sector comes in and asks in writing, because they have not been able to order the raw materials, to terminate the contract. On 23-9, one week later, the Management Board of the NSAs decides and votes for a framework agreement with ONEX to provide qualified staff, a contractor, to provide rented workers, to EBO for a period of two years, with an option of EUR 20,787 000. And the interim decision it made, in order not to be fired immediately, is when the contract is signed to leave the thirty-six employees contracted by their jobs, whose contract has been renewed since 2017. At the Aegean factory there are ninety permanent workers, of whom twenty-five to thirty people will be retired next year. And with the dismissal of the thirty-six contractors who have renewed their contract since 2017, a huge know-how will be lost. So the question is simple, Minister. If you want effective operation, is it possible to expel people with a very important know-how? Why don't NSAs and EBO proceed to a direct recruitment of personnel and permanent or conversion of contract staff into permanent staff, in a permanent employment relationship, and recruit by subcontractor, hire rented workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u100	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you will allow me to repeat at the beginning some basic features, in order to understand the liquidity injections that the Greek state gives to support NSAs, significant liquidity injections through capital increases. I will say to you, because there is a special interest and geographical speciality to you for this company, that since September 2019 the company has been strengthened with a total of EUR 150 million, of which EUR 100 million, as I said to your colleague, is capitalisation of debts and 50 is a direct cash payment. Last capital support was made recently, in April 2021, and it was EUR 13.4 million and another EUR 29 million share capital increase is expected: a third-party repayment of 15 million, raw materials supply of 10 million and a payroll of 4 million. Thus, there is an increase in the share capital in order to pay the existing employees too. And as I said, the Ministry of National Defence has launched procedures for the implementation of orders from the company of EUR 115 million. The Greek State, therefore, actively supports the operation of the country's only pillar of procurement of defence material despite the country's huge time-consuming problems. With regard to the so-called dismissal of EBO workers, I would mention - and I think I will repeat it, because the Minister of National Defence has also recently been placed in a parliamentary committee on this issue, and I think in plenary on a relevant question - the company's specific operating issues are the management of PSUs, as it takes decisions on criteria of financial efficiency, efficiency and efficiency. Please note that for the implementation and timely implementation of contracts awarded to NSAs by the Ministry of National Defence, the award and implementation of specific sub-strategic work by contractors with personnel of their choice is required periodically. The contract between NSAs and the contracting company at the factories' complex concerns the provision of a specific project and the employees employed in it do not have any employment relationship with NSAs. They are personnel of the contractor linked to contracts with the contractor as long as the contractor lasts. To that end, and for this reason the possibility of renewal of those workers' contracts with the contractor is related to the relationship between them and under no circumstances to the NCAs, as has been established in the case-law of the Supreme Courts. Therefore, on the basis of the above, no redundancies of the company's employees will exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u102	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u103	Minister, we will not hide behind our finger. We will not say 'No, Yannis, Yannakis'. It's redundancies. If the contractor fires them, it doesn't matter. But we are talking about redundancies, not renewing a 30-six-working contract. And here the responsibility lies exclusively with the administration of NSAs and, by extension, with the Ministry of Economics and Ministry of National Defence, as one finances and another oversees. They appointed the administration of the NSAs. The NSA administration can't do it and wash our hands as Pontius Pilates. Because you also referred to a million-dollar dance and the fact that the public supports, as you say, the Hellenic Defence Systems. However, the situation with the workers goes from bad to worse: permanent staff does not exist in order to be able to support the factory's know-how, and in essence labour relations with contractors and rented workers are overthrown. With such features, will the factory move forward? With an anti-girl attack? With cheap workers? With consumable workers? With hostage workers? Who can function on the substance, right? And you said that the contract so far was for the provision of a specific project. The new contract the ESDP administration is preparing to sign with EMU, with the subcontractor is only for the provision of specialised staff and not for a specific project contract, when the new order for the thousand Minimi and the five hundred TAKs are due to be set up, which is a three-year timescale. And - oh, luck! - for three years is this contract for the provision of workers qualified by the subcontractor. That is the problem, that know-how is lost. The world that has been working since 2017 has gained this know-how. He could continue if he made direct recruitments to the Hellenic Defence Systems. Why do you put a pimp in the middle to hire this world? That is the question, Minister. And from this point of view, this world must be guaranteed. Why don't you check it out. You cannot speak of some millions, when at the same time directly, without bureaucratic procedures, you are disbursing billions of euros for new armaments, when you give every year 2% to 2.5% of GDP for naval imperialist expenditure that does not concern our country's defence. That's the reality. And the depreciation of the NSAs on the substance that it leads to? It leads to the privatisation in one way or through partnerships or through the delivery of the factory to a contractor to operate it. Because that's what you're going to do with the saint. Fifty permanent staff cannot operate the factory. The contractor will work. So you're giving him a state-of-the-art factory to operate it yourself through informal procedures. And that must be denounced, Minister, because it does not guarantee workers first and foremost, and what we are interested in is the guarantee of workers. Instead of going into this contract, then, proceed directly to recruitment. Convert this staff’s employment relationships into an indefinite period, regardless of whether they were contract workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u104	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u105	Mr Colleague, you said that we gave a few million euros and we have given somewhere else for equipment much more. Perhaps you did not retain a number I told your colleague. The Greek state has given NSAs 1.3 billion euros, through debt and cash capitalisations since February 12, 2004.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u106	And every year you give 5 billion to naval spending!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u107	You've said this a hundred times, let you hear the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u108	But I could never imagine a government having an anti-government policy when it strengthens it with EUR 1.3 billion to support workers. Neither one government, which over the last two years has financed the company with EUR 150 million to pay employees. Neither a government to increase its capital directly, of which EUR 4 million will go to employee payroll. So this policy, which has been engaged in an extremely problematic asset for decades in the country, is a policy to support workers. Following on from my reply, as far as the only part I have not yet been put, is the permanentisation by the conversion of workers' contracts into permanent and stable contracts, I would remind you that there is no such possibility under the law, since, as I said before, these are not workers to companies. Recruitment of temporary or regular staff shall be subject to the public sector recruitment scheme under the provisions of Law 4765/2021. Consequently, the conclusion of any contract of employment with workers, in excess of the law, constitutes nullity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before we interrupt the meeting, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Driving safely: Modernising a framework for training and examination of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, provisions on the driving of disabled persons, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport'. Also, MP Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourikos asks for permission from a few days' absence abroad from today 25 October to 28 October for personal reasons, and MP Anna Mani - Papadimitriou seeks permission from abroad from 28 October 2021 to 1 November 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u110	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the sitting and come back on the agenda for legislative work. This will take place at 13.00 p.m. and I ask all interested parties to be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-25-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session of the House begins and ends under the depressing shadow of the election of Fofi Gennimata, President of the Change Movement and a distinguished parliamentary delegation. The sadness and crush that we all feel, representing the sadness and the collapse of faithfully - I am sure - together with the Greek people at the moment, requires us to decide to stop Parliament's work for this week - as a minimum sign of respect for its memory - and in the legislative work and in the area of parliamentary control. A few minutes ago I spoke to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who had just landed in Riyadh. We agreed to freeze the legislative work this week and with the other parties we also unanimously agreed to freeze the work of parliamentary control. The Greek Parliament is now a socialist of the tragic new. At a plenary sitting, which we will codecision on, we will all be dedicated to honouring the memory of an important politician, a worthy woman, a devoted mother, a dear colleague and a politician who, despite the enormous health test he has been facing, dare I say that until the last minute in the eyes of all of us - and that is not a oxymobile - was a coffin. Photini Gennimatas, Head of PASOK since 2015 and the Change Movement from 2017, served with devotion and effectiveness with important ministries, under the premises of George Papandreou, Luke Papademos and Antonis Samaras, Education, Defence, Health and Interior. He served local government as the Overseer of Athens and was elected MP many times, always having popular support to accompany it. Understanding the blow that her family suffered from the last and fatal, unfortunately, adventure of her health, which had an incredibly rapid deterioration, we must confess that their wife and mother was a colleague who we all deeply appreciated and admired. Now that we have the image of her evil confrontation with cancer, we better understand her passion for public health, for the improvement of health structures and for this obsession with the need for the state over time to support what her infamous father had started, she herself supported and that we all feel in her memory that we should promise noter in here: public health like our eyes! In the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the whole House, I express my deepest sympathy. I am sure that in the plenary we will soon be organizing to honour its memory - not only for reasons, the House will honour its memory and I will do so - the whole course of public life will emerge, all its effort to improve the life of the Greek people and all that commitment to public affairs and the public service that, even now that it is not with us, allows me to call it a ferry. Her memory and her stocking keep her as hope of mine - and I'm sure of your eyes too. Because the baton that we will take from her struggles and her ambitions for public propensity will turn it into what she dreamed of so that her own hopes and expectations can make them reality. The flowers that I left on behalf of the Greek Parliament at its seat are hugged with the flowers left by its MPs. "Good flowers and whites, as they were very suited" to her personality, her struggles and her deposit, which is our obligation to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep a minute's silence, one minute's devastated silence, in memory of a great politician, a good friend, a good mother, a politician who justified this status. And it will make it even more justified - and let us promise not to - our care for its own deposits. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] It's eternity. Memory. The sitting is closed.
