ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are now entering the debate on the FURTHER QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs the House that in the context of parliamentary scrutiny the timely questions to be debated today are as follows: Questions Nos 243/2-12-2021, 245/3-12-2021, 249/6-12-2021 and 862/3-11-2021 and 879/32/4-11-2021 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris. Question No 256-12-2021 will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Skreka. Question No 251/6-12-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mrs Styliani Mendoni. Question No 236/30-11-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Questions Nos 258/6-12-2021 and 259/12-2-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Spyridonas - Panagiotis Lebanon. Question No 262/12-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos. Question No 261/6-12-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Question No 263/6-12-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Maria Syregella. Question No 253/6-12-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Eleftherios Economou. Question No 241/2-12-2021 is answered by the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Sophia Zacharakis. Now, the eighth, with number 256-12-2021, is to be discussed in the context of the second cycle of the Parliamentary Kavala of SYRIZA Mr. Sultana Eleftheriadou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘New data after Commissioner Schmitt's reply to the reinforcement of “Energean Oil & Gas”. I would ask you very much, because there are a lot of questions today and, at the same time, that the plenary, both the Members and the ministers, should be close to the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning from me and a good week! Minister, my question concerns the company 'Energean Oil & Gas'. As you know, Prinos' look belongs to the Greek State and the facilities belong to the Greek State and the Greek public and the establishments operate and produce are in the interests of everyone and it is the desire of all. The desire of all is also the profitability of the company, as it depends on the payment of the Royalties, which under the concession agreement is obliged to give the Greek State every year. Unfortunately, all these years that ENERGYKI operates in Kavala royalties to the Greek public were paid only in 2018, either because the company did not produce the required percentage - oil - or because it has a very large loan. However, the company must respect both its function and its working relationships and the environment. New data, therefore, emerged after the vote here on the company's aid with a commercial loan guarantee of EUR 90.5 million and at the same time, with a subordinated guarantee loan of EUR 9.5 million. The new data are indeed - I will describe them in my dentistry - but above all they relate to Commissioner Schmitt's answer to a question from the SYRIZA MEP Mr Kostas Arvanitis, where he clearly refers to his reply that support for activities through the European Union relating to fossil fuels is excluded. I would like to ask you and to get a clear answer if the loan, the loan with the guarantee of the Greek State, is considered to be supported by you in the sense stated by Mr Schmitt and whether or not, since you have voted for this support and even given it through foreign banking institutions - you have taken an amendment that allows ENERGYIAKI not to take the loans from Greek banks but from foreign banks - you intend to commit the company at the same time to respect labour relations. What does "respect" mean? To maintain the existing working relationships on the same terms as currently in force, of course, according to the establishment plan currently in force in the Prinos look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please refer to your timely question on the substance of the matter if we intend to consider the possible consequences of granting the loan to Energean Oil & Gas. I would therefore inform the House that the assessment of the consequences that have already been made by the European Commission following our suggestion. In particular, at the request of our country on 18 March 2021, the State aid in favour of the company ‘Energean Oil & Gas’ was approved under number C2021/2079final/24/2021. This aid consists, firstly, of a guarantee of 90% of a loan of EUR 90.5 million and, secondly, a subordinated loan of EUR 9.5 million. In addition, the relevant department of the Ministry of Finance has given views on the draft contract for issues of a common bond loan of 9,500,000 euros by the Company's name. Therefore, the European Commission has approved this decision by the Greek Government. The Commission also substantiates its decision by stating that the aid concerned fulfils the conditions set out in its communication No C20/1863-193-2020, entitled ‘A temporary framework for State aid measures to support the economy during the current outbreak of COVID-19’. The spirit of this European Commission communication was subsequently reflected in our national legislation and, in particular, in Article 40 of Law 4801/2021, entitled “Aid from the Greek State to the company “Energean Oil & Gas”, “Energy Aegean, Anonymous Company for Research and Production of Hydrocarbons”. This European Commission communication was adopted in the context of the overall effort of the Member States to address the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19 disease on their economies. In this respect, the possibilities available to the Member States in accordance with the rules of the European Commission to ensure the liquidity and access of enterprises to finance are presented, particularly those facing a sudden shortage during this period, so that they can recover from the current situation. Therefore, this aid was found compatible under Article 107(3)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Committee will not object to it, as expressly stated in its relevant text. After all, the temporary framework for State aid measures during the pandemic announced by the European Commission is a necessary measure for the economy of the Member States that was so badly affected by the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u5	We are also grateful to the Minister and to him for the consistency in time. Mrs Eleftheriadou now has the floor for her second language for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, you have read to me the bill, in essence, that you voted to strengthen 'ENERGEAN'. I imagined you would be aware of Mr Schmidt's answer, which is on behalf of the European Commission. On 12-10-2021 it says clearly, therefore, ‘investment must always comply with the principle of non-injurious injury, which excludes support for activities related to fossil fuels’. It's clear. I was expecting you to tell me whether or not Mr. Schmidt is wrong. I didn't get an answer to that. I hope, if necessary, that you explain to me why the representative of the European Commission says that it is not possible to support 'ENERGEAN'. Apart from that, Mr Minister, you may have to rethink what is going on in "ENERGIAKI AEGEAN". Right now - I'm going to produce the Minutes - the factory's out of operation. You will finance, in other words, you will guarantee a loan of EUR 100,000 000 to a company that is currently running out of business. Complaints have been made to the HR, from the workers' association, which I imagine you are aware of, that the factory is not functioning - according to the company - on the premises are also oil and hydrogen sulphide and yet the company is making the staff available. Employees report that “ENERGY AEGEAN” does not ensure the safety of installations and of the wider area. The "GENERGIAKI AEGAIOU" has stopped the supply of natural gas, has ceased the production process and has kept the plant without the necessary personnel, according to the emergency response plan. To this company you will give a guarantee to get a loan of 100,000,000 euros. Do you know that, Minister? Do you know what's going on in Kavala right now? Do you know that the company is required, in accordance with the concession agreement, to keep the factory in operation? Do you know that after taking all the oil through the facilities in September, after taking the shutdown, that is, stopping the production processes and the operation of the plant, then stopped supplying gas and asking the Greek State to give a guarantee of a loan of 100,000,000 euros? In fact, a guarantee which, as you know, cannot be obtained from all the companies. And he continues to ask the Greek State to strengthen it, while the production process has stopped, while there are complaints to the EDPS, while the EDPS refuses to come to Kavala to check that the facilities are safe. You are now telling me that without checking anything, and there is Mr Schmidt's answer saying that energy aid cannot be given through the European Commission, as if nothing were happening and you will give the aid and you will not check what is going on at the factory. At least today I get something from you, because the Kavala society really boils, and I don't say who's to blame and who's not to blame. There's a big turbulence right now. The factory does not produce, so it also loses the Greek state, because it is not yet a year to take the agreed Royalties and the NSA refuses to come to check.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u7	They've been made understandable, you've repeated them. Shut up, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u8	I'm closing, Mr. President. At least we want an assurance from you that you will immediately send ERN to Kavala to check the facilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u10	Very soon, Mr President. First of all, Madam President, I would like you to be absolutely honest and to explain to the House and to my colleagues why this company is not able to produce. Because it is currently forbidden by union representatives to enter the premises of the company of those executives who are necessary to ensure that production is continued. So, what's the matter, so that the ladies and gentlemen of the House can understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u11	That's a lie, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u12	Don't interrupt, Mrs. Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u13	Listen a little, as I have heard you, so everyone can hear the truth. There are some people who are blocking the continuation of this activity for reasons I cannot understand. What I must tell you, however, is that I have given clear guidelines to the EDPS, and this is reflected in a letter sent by the responsible Secretary-General on 23 November, where I call for any action to be taken is necessary to ensure the safety, of course, of the installations and the continuation of production. With regard to the question you have asked, I would like to inform you that the Member of the European Parliament - and I think this has also gone through to you - is Mr Schmidt's answer. Mr Schmidt said that activities which do not cause significant damage, as in English otherwise called 'do not signalificantly', concern those activities where under the new regulation they are not eligible to be financed in the new programming period by the European Union's financial funds. To make it simpler, I tell you this example: Today a waste treatment plant, probably in the next ESRB programme period, will not be eligible to be financed as a percentage of the investment by the NRP, because it will probably not meet the term 'do not signalificantly', i.e. that it does not cause significant damage to the environment. However, this does not mean, under any circumstances, that the Member States cannot grant or support investment that is important to the local and national economy and the local society. So do not confuse the eligibility of the activities and the interventions and investment programmes of the next programming period with the support provided by the Member States to existing activities due to the disease of COVID-19, the coronary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u14	And we thank the Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, I should like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Protection of volunteering, strengthening the action of the Civil Society, tax incentives to strengthen the utilization of the community. and other provisions.’; We continue with the fourth under No 251/6-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Archaic Holy Street, eight hundred fifty meters in Haidari and Lake Koumoundourou are on a dangerous abandonment and demand protection". Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, this is the fourth time I have asked you in this Chamber to discuss the issue of archaeological sites and unfortunately twenty-five months after the first question has not changed. What is it that hasn't changed? The ancient Holy Street, which is preserved in part on the uphill north side of the seven hundred meters, downhill two hundred and three hundred in the southern side has not been declared archaeological site, a full part of the southern part recorded by Traylos, the archaeologist of the 1930s and the uphill and downhill north with a plate of archaeological space, the part downhill from the hill Echos to Lake Koumoundouros and no archaeological sites have been declared. And we are here, and I am obliged to call you again and again twenty-five months from my election and this elementary declaration has not gone ahead. You told us that the service of work for the promotion and promotion of the ancient Holy Street and the monuments began in September 2020. Won't archaeological site be declared? Will the archaeological service work on what? Aren't we going to make the proclamation first? These papers since September 2020, we are going almost a year and a half now, what has happened? What are the points on which interventions have been made? Where has it been marked? What's the timeline? When will they be completed? What about Lake Kumunduru? Next time you told me that the lake is protected for its natural beauty and its importance for nature. Very good, of course. It is the part of nature that is protected, necessary, very important wetland. Will archaeologically be protected? Do we currently have in lake mandarins, fences, mandarins from businesses that no longer operate, when will it be restored? When will this abandonment image stop? We are talking about the most complete part of the ancient route that we had of the Holy Road. He's here, I don't know how long. If this abandonment continues, it won't be. I have been calling on you for twenty-five months to act, to be proclaimed, to be protected, to appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. MEP, on 8 November from this point of view, I set out all the actions taken since July 2019, which have been carried out in practice, to highlight ancient Holy Street. I'll repeat for once. Ancient monuments which date back to 1453 and which are property are not required to be proclaimed are automatically protected by Law 4858/2021, the codification of Law 3028/2002. There is no need to declare such monuments. Now let's go see some specific things again. In relation to the promotion of the Holy Road, I told you and last month, the work of remodeling the entrance of the archaeological site of Elefsina is under way and the development of the ending of the Holy Road and its antiquities. Also, the project is in progress to promote and promote the ancient Holy Road and the monuments that mark its course. The project includes the creation of an information station for the Holy Road within the archaeological site of Aphrodite in Haidari, which is located right in the middle of the route Athens - Elefsina and provides information about the history of the Holy Road, about the excavations and about the visible sections of the ancient Holy Road for which guidance will be given for their tour. The project also includes the emergence of visible sections of the road from Keramikos to the end of the entrance of the archaeological site of Elefsina. These are the following points: the Holy Gate to the Keramikos, the "frey" of the Prophet Daniel, the remnants of the road at the metro stations at the Olives and the Aegean, the precinct of Heidari, the Aphagia Haidari, the Sacred of Aphrodite, the Heidaris Recreation Park, to which you refer, the Reetian Lake at Aspropyrgos, as well as the bridge of the national road to Aspropyrgos, the Roman Bridge to the Elefsian Kifissos and the plot of the former IKA on Heroon Polytechnics Street in Elefsina, the so-called EFKA plot. In particular, the remnants of the Sacred Road on the hill of the Sounds south of the Lake Koumoundouros provide the placement of the sign and everything you say, as in the lake of the Reet, when the work is completed. The project is under way, it will be completed at the end of 2022. We talked about this the other day. As far as your question regarding the cleaning of the section of the Holy Road on the hill of the Sound is concerned, since the area is preached as a landscape of natural beauty, the cleansing of the low vegetation that will be carried out by the Egos in the context of the higher work will be mild. Let's not imagine that the whole lake area will be cleaned up. On the subject of proclamation, we talked about it beforehand. You said that the area is protected as natural beauty since 1968. There is within the streams the provision that must be in place and I repeat that monuments, real estate before 1453, are automatically protected by the law and do not need a special declaration. Regarding your question about the section of the Holy Road in the Heidari Recreation Park, I would clarify that the section of the ancient road that extends to the area, a length of sixty-five meters, was excluded from the recreation park. In 2011, the proposal to highlight and protect this segment was approved and was one of the obligations of the private investor, who did not do the project. He did not do it as a debtor, invoking financial poverty. For this very reason, this section of the Holy Road is included in the ongoing project of the promotion and promotion of the ancient Holy Road. Regarding the issue of the removal of buildings in the areas where the Holy Street was revealed in Aspropyrgos, the services of the Ministry and the Municipality of Aspropyrgos are in agreement to see whether there are permits or are illegal, to follow the legally provided procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u18	And we thank the Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, why do you declare new archaeological sites, since you tell us that, based on the law, anything that is before the Istanbul Lost is automatically declared a monument? So why are you declaring new archaeological sites? Tell us something. Since they're automatically preached, are they registered in the Archaeological Register? If they are not registered in the Archaeological Register, if any work is done, are the limits protected? For example, if someone decides tomorrow to put wind into Pokilon, how will they be measured? He can put them on them, too. In other words, the protection of the thousands of five hundred metres from archaeological sites is not the case. Mrs. Mendoni, obviously, and you must preach them. Here we are talking at the KAS for Niborio, this most important monument in Evia, which, because you do not declare it, also go to adopt wind turbines on the memorial. Obviously, you must preach it. Archaeological monuments must be declared. For what the law of 1453 did not foresee, not for before. Is it incomprehensible at the moment from the Holy Street that seven hundred meters were saved upwards and another three hundred downwards in nature, in a natural landscape, with the connection of the archaeological sites of Lake Koumoundouros and that these have not been declared? Can he not be protected? Tell us why there is a sign of archaeological space, since he's not preached? I'm talking about the downhill part of the Sacred Road. It is your obligation to make this declaration, because that is what protects the monument against any other design. The fact that they are not preached, I am sorry, but it conceals that you do not want to be preached, because there are obviously other thoughts. If you want to protect them, preach them as you do in such archaeological sites. Why do you declare other archaeological sites, tell us. Why do you go on declaring new archaeological sites, since, as you say, the law says so and there's no need? Why did you make a commitment a while ago that you will proceed to the declaration? You're stalling her, of course, until the wind is put in place. But why did you make your commitment to making the declaration? And that's protected. Before 1453 it is. Why is the Holy Street different? Why don't you preach the Holy Way?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u20	Mrs. Mendonis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u21	Mr Papoutsis, there are different things to declare archaeological site and declare a monument. The proclamation of a monument, when it is immovable before 1453, is not required as it is automatically protected by law. You ask us to preach a monument to the Holy Street. The Holy Street is a monument, no proclamation is required for it. The proclamation of the archaeological site is another process and is therefore clearly and explicitly provided for by specific provisions of Law 3028, now Law 4858. If you enter the archaeological register, you'll see that all of this is registered. They are included in the Archaeological Register. So let's make it clear what you want. Do you want to declare an archaeological site or a monument? Declaration of monument as you say in your question is not required. All that we said was said on 8 November. You ask exactly the same questions and you come back. Also, on Friday, December 10th you tabled another question about the wall in the ancient wall of Demas. And that's what I've answered. It's all right, though. I'll answer that again. First of all, I note that in Law 4277/2014 - the new Regulatory Plan of Athens and Attica - the Ministry of Culture has delivered an opinion on the protection of the areas from which the Holy Street passes. Therefore, all visible sections of the road, which I stress are automatically protected by Law 3028, have an additional protection from 2014. I told you on 8 November that the new Athens Regulatory Plan had provided for the upcoming of the Sacred Road, as you have noted. However, the previous leadership of the Ministry of Culture for five years has not carried out any work. By fulfilling my public commitments since 2019, I can assure you once again that today, in the year 2021, the work of highlighting the Holy Street is being carried out. In his course the Western Attica Antiquities Branch records and ripenes any other actions needed for this purpose. As this is a technical project, a specific time is needed for its implementation and specific procedures. It is therefore difficult to have done what you say is not done and which is included in a project which is completed in twelve months from today, namely January 2023. December 2022 - January 2023 is the timetable that has been tabled from the outset in order to obtain the necessary funding. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u22	Thank you too, Minister. We continue with the first under No 236/30-11-2021 topical question by the Member of the Lakonia Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, on the subject: "Evolution of major road projects for the Regional Unit of Lakonia". Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for two extremely long-term public projects - when I say 'public' because there are now many kinds of levels of administration, I mean public interest and need, I would say, projects - I am resorting to parliamentary control in order to enlighten us on this. And I say this because the working efforts of the Ministry of Infrastructure in the last two and a half years are particularly important and I would say that they create a favourable perspective for the future of the country, but also for the quality of life of its inhabitants and visitors. So these two-year-old projects concern both the improvement study - to study first of all - of the Sparta - Gythion national road, where it ends, to say schematically, the bypassing of Sparta begins and the old road begins to go to Gythio and two other emblematic projects, but I would say Balaic status, which are the two studies of the Skala bypass and Vlachotis bypass. These are two studies which already have a pre-process from the Peloponnese Region, but for many years this situation has continued to be on paper. I believe that, with the momentum it sees you, the quiet but essential effort you have made in these years when you are Minister of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I would say that you could intervene on the speed of these projects so that at some point we can also see them. It is not possible - and you have gone through the region - to have a bridge of the last century or the previous century in Skala. There cannot be this road network! The bridge is part of the problem. The problem is the road. That road of the 1950s justified this bridge. You realise, however, that they need to move a little bit. I think it is a hope, I would say, at the moment, that this government's moment inclination to public works - we see the press releases, which you have - to intervene catalytically and effectively in these two problems facing the Laconia Prefecture. [[This is the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member.]] I believe that the first project, the improvement study, must finally be completed and progressed, because it is a project that has been launched since 2007, has been part of the Third Community Support Framework, with continuous extensions, in terms of its studies. With great interest, I will listen to you and come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr Colleagues, I am very pleased with the question you are asking me, because I think that there is an opportunity at last to talk about important studies, as you said in your protology, which, after so many years of completion, I would say to you, I think we are putting an end to the problems of the wider region of Laconia. I would also like to thank you for the cooperation we have been having all this time, to put an end to this little piece of study, and it is good to say in a few words where we are, what we have received and where we are going, because I think that is what the inhabitants of the wider region want to hear. We're starting with the Sparta - Gythion study. Here, to remind those who hear us, as you quite rightly said, that we are talking about a contract to prepare studies to improve the existing Sparta-Gythium national road, in the department from the end of Sparta bypass to the beginning of Gythium bypass. We are therefore talking about a project, about a study, about a twenty - and - four - kilometre road, of which ten thousand four hundred kilometres is a new development. The projections of the study, in other words the arteries, the level of nodes, the vertical and the side road network, together with the existing road network, are adequately secured by the study we are doing. And I would like to remind you here that to a very large extent these studies have already been completed, my dear colleague, as you well know, in 2014. At that time the environmental impact study had been completed, the final geological study had been completed, a series of geotechnical studies completed, and a final study of road projects had been submitted. The question we need to ask ourselves - and it is a rhetorical question - is what happened from 2014 until 2019. The answer is very simple. As in most major public works, almost nothing. What did we do? For our part, without making a supplementary contract, which would create huge problems and delays, we adopted the first comparative table on 25 October. What does that mean? For those who do not understand the issues of technical studies, it means that we are finally coming to an end in this study, which has to do with the Sparta - Gythio section, because we are completing a study of livestock, a study on labelling and insurance, and other pre-studies that are needed, as are the final study of technical projects. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I would like to say that our central aim is to complete a study that has been pending for over ten years, which is unprecedented, so that this study can finally be handed over to the region. This must be done by the central administration, this is its obligation to deliver the study to the region, which is also the contracting authority to auction this much-needed work. So, in order to run, Mr Davaki, the procedures, in September 2020 in order to order the concessionaire, Morrea SA, to carry out a number of additional flooding projects. These studies include projects for which the studies will be prepared intact by the concessionaire. In short, what did we do? We have said that since we have been instructing you to do some anti-military work in the wider area, upstream and downstream of the motorway, please, you are also obliged to give us some additional studies on compensatory measures, in short. Therefore, in these studies we incorporate and prepare the remaining studies we need for Sparta - Gythio. In my dentistry, I can tell you details of why we have, if you like, these additional studies. This is done very soon because local societies are coming up at intervals and asking for some improvements. Therefore, when this happens, we are late and we have to do the studies even more detailed. So once the study from us, which I will tell you - because we are finally judged by the timetables we are giving - then, as I said, we will hand over the study to the region so that it can be integrated into the MAGP and proceed with the project. We therefore consider that we will need more than a year to complete all the studies so that we have an integrated study that we can deliver to the Peloponnese Region. In my second speech, Mr President, I should like to refer to the two bypasses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Now Mr Davakis has the floor for his own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The Laconian citizens, but also the visitors of our country, most of all, don't want to hear me. They know the efforts made by each of their representatives on a number of key issues. They wanted to hear you, in your position as an executive agent, and I think you're putting things in a row. Finally, we realise now that the project has been stuck for five years, while it was in good shape and that is because of the failure of the previous government. And I see that you are neither trying to be excellent nor to say good words, but you are putting a one-year schedule in order to get all of this into a series. What you said that ten years of study is an unprecedented fact is what goes on with everyone and they all ask - regional self-government, local government, political representatives - why all this is happening. I believe that your intervention on this is a hope to break off the problems that exist. Also, what you said we have come to an end, I take it as a commitment from the Mitsotakis Government and your own, so that these are completed in order to be granted to the contracting authority which is the Peloponnese Region, so that we can have a visible result in these specific interventions. That is what I believe is happening with regard to the concessionaire and the anti-military works you have said. Regarding the bypasses of the two regions, Skalas and Vladiotis - because this had also been said at our last meeting, Mr Minister - it is a gloomy impression when a visitor or resident comes mainly and faces these huge problems in his movement. Indeed, the project was financed by the Third Community Support Framework in 2007. Indeed, the study was awarded in 2008. They're some marginal and politically charged, I'd say dating dates. The contract was signed on 25 February 2009 and we are slowly moving on to them. We've stopped. I believe your intervention will play a catalytic role. Before I close, I would like to say something else, which you will obviously know. In 2007, Minister, the categorisation of this road and the 'central network' has been renamed to 'extensive network', which means that the central state does not prejudge this road as a connector. I understand why this happened for the port of Gythios. I say that the study to link the E65 to Gythio as a centre for transit trade and, I say, an important intervention, given that there is a great need. I leave Mani's recent fires, which will give a good prospect and a tonic of optimism to the world that we are building a new path. Ten miles, as you said, is a new engraving. And I think you should see this. I do not know why the categorisation has changed and what impact this may have on prioritisation and the effective execution of such projects. I look forward to the timetable you have told me and what action you will take through the anti-military works, as you quite rightly said, beyond the Sparta - Gythio road, on the road to the bypassing of Skala and Vlachiotis, which leads to the region of Monemvasia and Naples, of central importance and great touristic interest. I believe that this is our chance - I am putting 'we', because we as ordinary parliamentarians support the work of this government and support it reluctantly - have done so for many, I would say, events of the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u28	And we thank Mr Davaki. The word to you, Minister, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before answering the very correct question you have asked, you will give me an opportunity to clarify what projects of so-called 'national importance' are now being carried out by the region. I think that this has also been made clear by the Callicratic law that we have passed in this Parliament in 2011. Now let's go see the second project, the one bypass Skala - Vlachoti in the Municipality of Eurota. As you rightly pointed out in your question, at the beginning of 2019 the attempt to draw up studies by the Greek public consortium for the Greek State was flawed. Parenthesis here, because we're doing this. We did this before, my dear fellow Member, because it was simply when the Greek State came, whether as a central administration, as a ministry, or as a district, and commissioned a study, that competition was, to say, a very simple, long time ago. It was a time-consuming process and a process that was very costly. We have changed this by reviewing Law 4412 because we are giving the contracting authority the opportunity to make the study process to save this time. In 2019, therefore, the then government - and rightly, in our view - tried to transfer the costs to the 'MOREA' to do the study for the two bypasses. Unfortunately, that was not a success. But what they have not succeeded in doing at that time is now we, my dear fellow Member. In the context of the anti-military works carried out in the wider region - these projects we as a central administration have commanded the concessionaire to do so - we come and kindly, if you want, we require the concessionaire to do all the necessary studies so that we can get time. Because in these two bypasses - you know that better than I do - we are at a very early stage. We're not in Sparta-Gythio's phase, so we'd be wasting too much time. In other words, our Government at this stage goes for the two bypasses, gives the concessionaire the opportunity to carry out all the necessary studies, without the bureaucratic procedures of the Greek government, so that these studies can also be made quickly and not to eat again ten to twelve years, as we did at Sparta - Gythio, so that these studies can be delivered to the local government, to the region. I now come to answer your question again very soon. Since 2015, European directives have changed, which means that projects are now designated as national projects and as projects that fall within the framework and within the competence of the regions. So what the Greek Government is doing today is as follows: We are completing the study process. This is our obligation. So after a thousand waves, we do the self-evident thing. What was incomprehensible in the past is now doing so. We are, in fact, moving forward quickly to complete these studies, to deliver them to the region, so that the Peloponnese Region can auction these projects. Once again, however, I would like to tell you that we will be next to the region where we need to help, so that these projects can be completed and that we do not, as in many cases in the past, have mature studies, but in fact we cannot proceed with the projects. So we are doing this and we will be at the Ministry next to the region to find a solution immediately, especially in the first project that has been delayed, as you quite rightly said, for many years now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u30	And we thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u31	If you will allow me to ask a question, Mr President, why is this technical matter? The region has 30 million in the next ESDP, the economic part. Will the region be financially strengthened if the contracting authority is now in place to carry out these projects?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u32	We will see this when the studies are completed. I understand that the budget for local projects in the region is limited. It is limited, however, both in the NSRP and in the central administration. Here we are to find solutions to this issue. Of course, we pay if you want the price of the huge delay. Because these projects would have been much more easily ‘financed’ and eligible if the studies had been completed when they had to have been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u33	In the next five time questions will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Thanos Ploris. The first question with number 862/11-2021 will be discussed under the number 862/11-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Three-year-olds of operation of the "Thesaurus Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki" due to the planned transfer of daily hospitals outside the hospital." Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, the donation contract was signed between the Greek State, the Health Region and the “Theatrical Anticancer Hospital” of the Hellenic Anticancer Society and the donor Mrs.Latsi. The goal of the donation is supposed to be the decongestion of the "Theatrical Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki" and the creation of a new daily care unit to be transferred to Pylia Thessaloniki. The transfer, however, to a place away from the hospital’s main facilities has caused justified and serious concerns for staff and patients. In particular, the concerns are based on: First, based on the current incomplete organism, the tumorologists were reduced from twelve to ten, and there was a previous decrease from fourteen to twelve, while the haematological was reduced from six to four. At the same time only in the last one and a half years there has been an increase in patients by 17% in the haematological clinic. The inseparable and inseparable for those who have to pay for it also prevails at the external hospitals in the afternoons. Second, the doctors of the tumors are divided daily into external hospitals, daily hospitals and a clinic department. They also participate daily in a thematic oncology board. Thirdly, the transfer of the unit will create a gap in the dissolution of medicinal products for the other clinics which have so far been made exclusively in this department by experienced personnel under the responsibility of the pharmacy department. Fourthly, there are ninety-five gaps in the nursing service, while the gaps in the other services amount to sixty-three. In view of the above, can the Minister ask: Firstly, what measures will it take to carry out the full staffing of the ‘Family’ Hospital and the new unit, in order to recruit the necessary permanent health support staff in full and inclusive employment once the hospital is already trying to operate with dramatic gaps? The transfer of the plant automatically creates new bigger gaps and there is no information on any recruitment of permanent staff. Secondly, what measures will it take to provide all health services absolutely free? Thirdly, bearing in mind that there are no patients' electronic files, how will they be achieved safe and on the basis of their transport regulations between the new unit and the hospital? It is known that during any transfer of a patient it is compulsory to be carried in and its file with all the necessary information that is needed by the person receiving it. Fourthly, what means is the emergency treatment of patients who happen to take place either for transfusion, for punctuation, or for admission to hospitals? And fifthly, why is the announcement and preparation of the new unit not accompanied by a prediction of imaging tests, which are an integral part of the monitoring of tumour patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u35	And we thank Mr. Stoltides. Mr Ploris, Minister for Health, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u36	On the occasion of this question - and I expected it to be said in a clear way - we must thank the Latsis Foundation and Mrs Latsis for this daily care facility which was launched the day before yesterday. It is a jewel, indeed, that will help the oncological patients to have the best possible treatment in a space that has been fully shaped with beds and a robotic machine that works and protects the staff working over there in order to make the appropriate shapes. It really is a huge social offer, which enables this hospital to have a model daily hospitality unit. So let's start with that. Let us begin and say that we thank you as a state for what is happening and for the new unit that has been formed. In order for this unit to function, three pathology and oncology posts have been requested, which has already been adopted by 7-10-2021. At the same time, by decision of the Management Board, a number of anesthetics and other specialities were also requested, whether medical or other personnel, all of which were all approved, while as regards the haematological clinic, to which you refer, there was initially no application for a specific post. This has been ex post and it has been decided to convert the vacant organic position to a position of curator second haematology. Approximately five hundred people are served in the hospital every day. Because, in fact, it is the only hospital that exists, it has been announced by the Prime Minister, as you know, the new oncology, which will take place in Thessaloniki. In the area of NN - and this is very important, I said before - there is a standard, now, robotic drug dismantling machine. The hospital is in the process of having a second machine in order to serve all the patients of the daily care unit in the most secure way, because these robotic machines - as I have said before - give the best possible protection for the personnel who prepares the medicines, but at the same time it is achieved, with the absolute degree of accuracy, the dosage to be taken, which is for the benefit of the patient himself. The electronic medical file is available at the "Fambient". It includes everything, as you said, other than visual exams and in a short time there is provision and it will be enriched with illustrations. Once again, I would like to express the thanks and overall thanks to the "God" for the struggle it has made throughout this time and also at the "Latsis" Foundation, which, with the new daily care unit, is really being given a breath on these people, our fellow citizens, who are oncology patients and now have the opportunity to have the best possible treatments in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The floor now, Mr. Stoltides, for his second-guess for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we're going to make this a little more specific. First of all, we have a donation, regardless of the opinion of everyone about the state's responsibilities in meeting health needs. The question is how this will be a positive development for patients and health workers. And we're saying, to safely operate each oncology clinic must have five permanent doctors. Scientists call it, and we have absolute confidence in them. On the contrary, not the government that handled health issues at a significant burden on the oncological patients. First oncology clinic has two permanents. There's three missing. The second, B', has four permanent, one in availability, two missing. Oncology has four, one missing. The blood clinic has three permanents, two missing. So, by force, with superhuman efforts doctors and nurses continue to save people in relation to and at a great cost to the burden of their biology. But the daily hospitalization, we say, is nothing special from the clinic. It's part of it. Physicians are divided daily into outpatients, daily hospitalization, department - clinic. They shall participate in a thematic oncological board. With the new remote unit, new tasks are added or we better call it new fronts that require more staff. We are therefore asking what is going to happen to cover the existing deficits, but also to the new needs. At the moment the daily care unit is in the same hospital on the ninth floor and doctors can directly have support in imaging tests, ultrasound, X-ray, anesthesiologist, cardiologist. What about the unit when he goes to Pylea? What about a radiologist for these imaging tests, ultrasound, X-ray, defects? Also, for patients who have bone and other metastases. Biopathologist, microbiologist for blood tests, ambulance ready for emergency hospital transfer from arrest, anaphylactic shock. Experienced nursing staff. All clinics have only one nurse on the night shift. Finally, the dissolutions of drugs throughout the hospital, i.e. clinics and the native unit, take place in the ninth of the ninth by pharmacists and nurses under the responsibility of the pharmacy. Now that you're being transferred to the Pylea - you said about machine - how will they serve this time? There is also the corresponding example of "Saint Savva", that is, a daily hospitalization unit, which is more than a kilometre. Here we are talking about four and a half kilometers of the "Theamenio" from Pylea, from the new unit, to the urban fabric. There is a van that serves the staff for administrative and permanent ambulance during chemos and operates up to four. Minister, we believe that if this unit starts without any responses to all of this, instead of a solution and a positive development based on donation, you will add new burdens to staff and new risks to patients. We call it clear. Healthy with nails and teeth is the link that bears on one hand the achievements of science that have solutions for cancer patients and on the other hand cancer patients and their survival and quality of life. This link in this process does not strengthen it, instead weaken it, and we will not allow it, nor weaken it, nor break it. Minister, we will follow it closely from the beginning to return immediately if the interests of health and patient are affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. The word to you, Minister, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u40	Wait a minute. How can patient rights be affected? Patients are given the possibility for the first time to have a standard unit ornament that will work. And right now, is this because this unit is being given the donation of an institution? So you're so dogmatic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u41	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u42	You think they're not harming patients' rights. How will patient rights be affected when patients gain access to better conditions, when staff themselves, who need to know the risk involved in preparing medicines, have a robotic machine, which has also been donated in order to protect all personnel? Report the staffing. I told you of three vulnerabilities - oncology - and it is now on the crisis board, and at the same time three permanent positions of radiology, anesthesiology and gastroenterology were adopted. A position of thirty-six months, anesthesiology has already been announced for thirty-six months, haematological medicine a position for thirty-six months, heart disease two positions for thirty-six months, pharmacist a position, assistant pharmacist two positions, nursery thirteen places and additionally a number of subsidiary positions for the daily hospital unit to function fully. So when we have this staff, which starts - there is a problem with nurses everywhere, but this will be solved - the unit will normally work. At the moment in a unit function that we started the day before, which you refer to the possibilities that exist and how all this function will be done, we put all the staff in order to get the patients the best treatment possible, and you tell us that you will be watching no health or patient rights. At the time we come and add a daily care unit, which we put in a robotic machine that is in the best possible way for the provision of medicines, we order a second machine and we come and manage the unit either with permanent positions, which are to the extent that it is to be judged, or with subsidiary staff positions. Watch what? That after so many years is the possibility of finding out of urban tissue, which is right outside urban tissue, that patients will be able to park, wait next to very nice places, as have been designed, patients' escorts, get into exceptional conditions and have the best possible treatment? And you say not to harm the rights of patients because your obsession is one and only that this daily care unit is done with the money of an institution, with Mrs Latsis's money, which has a great deal of sensitivity from her family environment, and that turns it to help people who are in these circumstances. And instead of applauding it and supporting it, you come here to make your ideological obsession.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the second with No 243/2-12-2021 topical question by Mr Georgios Born to the Minister of Health, on 'Renew immediately fixed-term contracts for workers in the cleanliness, feeding and preservation of the health structures of the HSH'. Mr. Bored for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u44	Minister, this is a very well-known matter for you. By law of the Government of SYRIZA under number 3430/2016, hospital cleaning and storage staff were recruited under fixed-term contracts. It is reckoned that these people cover fixed and lasting needs. They were hired under conditions set by the AACC. I think you can understand that their offer in the middle of a pandemic takes other dimensions, greater dimensions. Most of these fixed-term contracts expire on 31 December, after a few days. You, with some amendment, have granted a three-month extension to these contracts, in order to obviously complete the procedures, in order to implement your obsession with the recruitment of tenants - tell them what you want - to meet these needs. The question is why you are doing so when the public with fixed-term contracts beyond the guarantee of the employment rights of those who are employed in the cleaning and storage of hospitals, beyond that, the public is spectacularly benefiting from this solution. So you, why are you doing this? Do you think these people are a group that has no pressure, which does not have access to the media to pressure you, to impose a different position? Why are you doing this? Why are you harming these people, and the operation of the hospitals, and the public? I say, Minister, you have no right to do this. You have no right and we invite you to proceed with the solution you have before you, namely the renewal of fixed-term contracts for these workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bored. Before giving the floor, you will allow me to make a statement to this House. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Tourism, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Civil Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice and Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Climate Crisis, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development, Health and Home Affairs, and the Deputy Secretarys to Prime Minister and Sport have tabled 10-12-2021 draft law: "Prototypes of Tourism Destinations Integrated Management, Management and Promotion Organisations, Viral Sources of Greece and other arrangements to strengthen tourist development". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u46	Mr Baroness, if you believed what you are saying as a party, the question arises: why have you made fixed-term contracts and not made contracts for permanent posts indefinitely? Why didn't you do it? If all you say is true, to see that some come to mock people, and I say it directly as you hear it, they come to mock people, if you thought that these people had to be permanent in the system, you wouldn't make them any fixed-term contracts. The fixed-term contracts, let me inform you, expire. When we have a fixed-term contract, what SYRIZA did, he did it on a specific date.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u47	They're refreshed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u48	They're refreshed. So is this the practice, that we are doing fixed-term contracts and renewing them for ten years? Is that the policy of good governance or is it the policy of deceiving people? Because if you believe that these people should have contracts of indefinite duration, you would not do what you have done, that is to take a certain amount of time and close them to the eye that you will resolve the matter while actually transferring the matter to the next government, that is to say to us. You knew you wouldn't be a government. You did not make post notices for indefinite duration, you did a certain amount of time. Why didn't you make an indefinite call for posts, you know? You did not do so because, if you put this staff in permanent employment relationships, then you would automatically deprive the National Health System of other positions, such as doctors, nurses and other medical staff. Because the positions that come out at the Ministry of Health are specific. So when the posts are specific, one Minister has to choose whether to hire doctors, nurses or other staff. He informs you that Mr. Kurublis. That's what he's gonna tell you. You need Mr. Kurubli's help. So you have made fixed-term contracts and you come from this seat to say about fixed and constant needs. If it was like this, why didn't you do indefinitely? You didn't do indefinitely because you knew you couldn't because you would be deprived of positions of other medical and nursing staff, and so you chose this process. We have extended the contracts as a whole. None of these people have lost their place for as long as the New Democracy is in government. And not only have they lost their positions, we are in agreement with them, and what I am telling you from here, I have explained them about the excitement they have received. And now you come and talk about permanent positions, while when you were government, you did not make permanent posts and you did fixed-term positions. In order to solve the problem, therefore, there are the following possibilities, which are to extend these contracts without changing their character and making them permanent - and we are legislating - and to allow hospitals, which they will judge, whether they want, to be able to take staff abroad in order to do these services or to have new fixed-term jobs. Because the fixed-term positions, Mr Vartenne - and you need to know that - are not that the same staff remain constantly. In the AACC that you're saying they've been passed, they've spent a certain period of time, so there'll have to be a new notice, if necessary, for a certain period of time, with features that will exist. So we come and say that the hospitals will decide. And yes, we're not dogmatic. Where hospitals judge, they will also have staff abroad and are given the opportunity to make contracts and complete them, but we are not going to leave the hospitals uncovered. As long as it takes, this prolongation will take place, but this extension will not have a characteristic effect on people. They know they've been in a certain period of time, so you've put them in and they can't be time indefinite. That's what defines our Constitution. That's what you knew. And what you are saying now is that you have done as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister. He has the floor for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u50	One is wondering what the Minister says today to whom he is addressing. Are you addressing natives? The question is this, Mr Pluri: Will you hire, give the job to contractors, or will you extend the fixed-term contracts? If you think you need a new notice or any other technique, you can do it. And why don't you do it? You come now, after two and a half years of governance of the New Democracy and you tell us that SYRIZA has given you a problem. Are you serious? From 2016 to 2019 SYRIZA made this solution, which, as you suggest, also gives the possibility or does not express any opportunity to inherit any other health. Well, tell me with truth and with boldness and don't be fooled. Will you give the job to contractors or will you choose this solution? And I'll tell you this. Listen to me, because you think the Greek people are buying it all. With regard to expenditure, the comparison between 2015 and 2016 and 2019: 25% to 30% cost savings from the State. For example, in the 'Evangelism'. Until then, the expenditure in hospitals for the workers I referred to cost 4,300,000 to a hundred eighty cleaners, while after 2016 they cost 2,300,000 for two hundred eighty cleaners. More cleaners, with better wages and public savings of two million. Other hospitals. The Trikala saves 240,000. In my home country, Ioannina, save from the two hospitals about 300,000 annually. Where are you going to give this money? Who are you going to give them to? To those who produce air or to those who produce work? This is the question, Minister Ploris, and I would ask you not to address me, because you may think that, in the context of political feasibility or political controversy, as you can see, you can say anything. Look into the eyes of the Greek people. You underestimate these workers. You underestimate them! You underestimate the work they offer and now underestimate their intelligence and come two and a half years later to say that you received a problem. No problem you've received. You yourself said that there is a solution - and I do not know what other technical solution you consider best - but I would tell you that if you consider contracts to be better for indefinite duration, this is Rhodes, do it. But you don't mean that. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u51	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u52	No, of course not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, in order to solve the problem for the public - I repeat - you have no right to harm the public, even if you consider these third-class workers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u53	Finish it, Mr. Barrett.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u54	...and treat them, throw them whenever you want and take the contractors to provide what are the contractors? A mediation? Is it productive? Is this a productive offer? Repeat: Select the solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u55	It's understandable, Mr. Baroness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u56	And don't dismiss this opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u57	The Minister has the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u58	Here, therefore, there are clearly differences, Mr Barremene. For you who are supposed to want this solution for indefinite time did not make it five years when you were government. Let Mr. Kourublis who has become Minister, who was Minister of Health, or Mr. Xanthos after entering the Chamber to answer. Why didn't they make this solution? Why didn't you make undetermined positions of indefinite duration? Because you didn't want to put in indefinite positions and all you wanted was to mock these people, doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u59	There were limited memos, what do you say now? Ares-mares squirrels?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u60	Don't interrupt, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u61	We're talking about everything we want here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u62	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u63	Because I like to answer Mr. Kurublis's words, but you knew that the memos were there. So, when you took out the notices, you knew that it can't be indefinite and you've given them a certain amount of time, and you've renewed the terms where we've been for two and a half years now. Is that a good legality? Say it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u64	But you, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u65	Are you going to interrupt me all the time? Can't you hear another reason, Mr. Barremene? Can't you hear me? Stop me again, I'll let you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u66	What are you doing now, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Curublis, please. Excuse me very much, have you been Minister, have you wanted a vacation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u68	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u69	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Barry, you don't have the floor. Please, you have also made President, you have respected the procedure. Nothing else, that's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u71	I respect it, Mr President, but the Minister gave me the opportunity. I'm saying that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u72	That's all the Minister has to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u73	It's a great thing, and it's all right, Mr. Bored, this is where Mr. Kurublis has no place in this debate. He's got another question, then. Can't you hear there anymore on SYRIZA? The memorials knew they existed. So how did you fool the world? And I say this directly and I address them, so that people can hear that you have had a fixed-term competition, and with this competition you have made extensions, while you know that this process cannot be permanent. So, you never knew they'd be permanent. You just wanted to make fun of them, and now you go and keep making fun of them. You are not telling the truth that "we made a certain amount of time..." and "determined time" means that it ends and that is why it is called "determined time". So we come and say that because we are, Mr Barrett, never said that these positions should be a certain amount of time, because we believe that permanent staff should be the staff associated with medical medics and other staff. And these services can be covered in two ways. What, then, are these two ways, why cannot we deprive other medical staff of positions? One way is to make it with external partners, the "outsourcing" that exists and believe that where applied, it will be applied in terms that will be for the benefit of the public interest and will be saved. And if any problems have been observed in the past, it does not mean that any contracts will now not be made under the conditions to be met. So that's the one option. The second option is that if you want a certain period of time, you can reappear a competitive process for a certain period of time, because logic cannot be the endless extension. That's what defines the right legalization. So what do we say? Because we were in a critical period - and we are because of the pandemic - this is being extended and it will continue to be done to keep the hospitals out, but at the same time, the hospital administrations can find another way to meet their needs through competitive procedures and with savings for the public, they will do so and if it is decided, we will look into it in this quarter - because I do not like to keep the world surprised about what will happen - to see whether and if there is a new notice for a certain period of time, although if necessary and if there is no needs to be met. So we are talking with absolute honesty in the world, and we are not telling this world that we have put you in public with a culture of old-fashionedness, whereas in reality you have only been contesting certain fixed-term positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u74	We continue with the fifth, with number 245/3-12-2021, a topical question by MP B2 'West Sector Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'In despair the citizens of western Athens due to serious shortages in primary care structures (PVO)'. Mr. Curublis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I think you agree with my question, because the same is happening in your own region at primary level. Minister, the best defense is the attack and you know all about these toys. Now, that you've answered Mr. Bored, array of pine cones. Its name is ‘workers’. That is what you want to do, and that is why you have not again declared the positions normally, with a fixed-term contract by means of a notice. This is the end of the day, so you don't, you don't want to do it. Now we're going to our own issues. What happens in primary health care throughout the country these two years is known. Physicians retire, contracts expire, doctors move to other centres of health which have no qualifications in this area, doctors move to vaccination centres. I now describe the situation in the area of western Athens, which shows the same situation throughout the country. I'm not saying anything special. Two health centers in the pigeon are down. In Haidari, radiological is not working in Petropolis itself, that is, a very difficult, extremely painful situation for the citizens of a region, Minister, which exceeds one million. It is one of the most densely populated areas, with a heavy environment due to the adjacent operation of XYTAs with suspended particles, with odors, etc. This whole situation is very difficult. So we're living the pandemic case. I don't want to lift the tons, honestly. All the effort has fallen on the subject of vaccines. But you also read, as I read, the article by the Director-General of the World Health Organisation, who says, that yes, that the effort must be made, that the vaccination process is completed and that every margin must be exhausted. The vaccine is useful, but beneficial, it is not panacea. Next to the functioning of the vaccine we also need primary health care. It is the cornerstone of a system in general and especially the issue of pandemics and epidemics. And I think you're a man that you know that, I'm not sluggish in Athens. It is, however, an area where I really hoped there would be a special interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u76	It is understandable, Mr Kurubli, that the rest in your dentistry, because time is pushing today especially.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because she really needs blood donation. And while doctors and nurses are retired and in the health system, but there too, you have never implemented the legislation in force to replace, because you know very well that in the case of the retirement of doctors and nurses you have the possibility to recruit directly without any other procedure. You don't have this year...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u78	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u79	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u80	What are you closing up? You've got plenty of time you're closing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u81	These are crucial issues, Mr President. You have reduced to the budget - and deny this! - from EUR 250 million the cost of primary care to EUR 138 million. You have announced positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u82	Tomorrow, Mr Kurubli, the budget begins tomorrow. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u83	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u84	Don't go on topic, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u85	In conclusion, give me half a second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u86	You have doubled the time, Mr Kurubli, you have no more reason. Please, the rest in your dentistry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u87	You have been proclaiming eight hundred positions - to prevent you - in the first place for two years, and you have eight months that the notice has been issued and they have never been hired, even by a fixed-term contract for two years, since you are not permanent. And those who have left have not been replaced, their contracts have expired and the TMGs do not work in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u88	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u89	Mr Kurublis, first of all, to respond first of all to the figures and, of course, with great pleasure to do the talk of primary school, where no one obviously disagrees, that primary school is a cornerstone. In Greece, unfortunately, we have never been able to have the level of primary school we would like to see with the family doctor. And there is one question here, because in fact, if this model had been implemented, there would have been one, to a large extent, control and protection in terms of the burden of secondary care, because, unfortunately, many times the role of primary school, as you know very well, is directly played by secondary hospitals, precisely because there are no structures. In the context of the pandemic, there was - yes, that was true - a further burden on primary care for two reasons, on the one hand, because the burden on primary care fell on the overall burden of vaccination coverage and support for vaccination centres, but, at the same time, on the part that it had to do with doctors because of the pressure on the ESS. There was also a transfer of doctors from primary to secondary school, in order to be able to support the National Health System. So, in this sense, in the pandemic conditions, it could not function under the conditions which we wanted to see in the primary school and the staff to the extent that we wanted. That is why - you know why you are following them - we are in agreement with the institutions too, because we also have primary obligations. We hope that, in January, we will also be able to table the draft law, which is linked to primary care, which may be with the bill which will come in the next time for the reorganisation of the National Health Services Agency. Now, with reference to the notices you mention, the notice for TOMY is on 19-32021 for a thousand nine hundred and thirty-five people. On the basis of the implementation time given to me, it is expected that, by 31-12, there will be the suspension of training tables and provisional lists of recruiters and rejected persons and the final suspension of the lists on 28-2-2022. At the same time, in addition to the positions that are purely for the TEMPUS, there are both announcements of the four thousand different divisions and specialties, other than doctors and nine hundred and ten positions for other specialities of the Ministry of Health, part of which also relates to primary care. Referring to the staff you refer to, for 2021 in the 1st Health Center for Peristeri, there have been seventy-two recruitments of other ancillary staff, two recruitments of permanent doctors and four recruitments of other ancillary staff, the Health Centre in Aegeoleus, and one recruitment of other ancillary staff, the Centre for the Health of Saints of Anargyroids and four recruitments of other subsidiary staff, the Health Centre for Heidarios, and the Health Centre for St.Jerothes has become an recruitment of other ancillary staff. In the context of the opportunities available, these recruitments have been carried out. It is expected that the large number of nine hundred and thirty-one posts will be inhabited. Unfortunately, participation in medical staff was not desirable. At the same time, we will see how we structure primary care - I am going to refer to my dentistry - which will include both TOMY and health centres, but also private doctors, basically, who are involved with the EEAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Kurublis, you have the floor for three minutes, but please keep it, because in your prototype you have more than doubled the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, with a little tolerance. These are crucial issues. We're having a dialogue useful to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u92	Dialogue is always useful, but I must tell you - and I said at the beginning - we must conclude because today there is also the pressure of legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, the nation will not sink for two minutes. Minister, you have not answered the question why you are not taking advantage of the existing legislation so that, in the case of doctors or nurses leaving on account of retirement, you can automatically cover these posts. At a time like this it would be extremely useful. I would like an answer to that. The second concrete answer, which I would like to ask is why you have reduced the 250, or about million in the 2022 budget for primary health care to 138 million. It's extremely worrying to me. I would also like an answer on that. The third thing I would like to ask is this: are you counting that in respect of these positions you have been posted for two years, in other words in March, this staff will be in his post? I would like a commitment because you have told us since 'in two months', 'in three months'. It has already been eight, nine months and this is not the case, although it is not for permanent staff, but for fixed-term contracts. One next question is: These people had six months to be paid. I have heard that you have signed a decision on this. I'd like you to tell me when they're getting paid, because it matters. You're telling me you've hired some people to health centers and TOMY. The TOMY, Minister, are not working. Staff contracts have expired. I don't want to raise tons. You must give me answers clearly. You know, Minister, how much has been lost to health centres and dates? Do you know how much labs have been reduced? This is a really difficult situation, and I think that, of course, as far as primary health care is concerned - I am one of the people I support - I think we should have a dialogue with the whole political system. Primary health care should not be restricted, Minister, to the management of the disease in health centres, in TOMY, but intervention should be made in the community, with a family doctor. That is what we must also discuss in universities with the production of specialties, Minister, if we want to be honest when we talk to the Greek people. We have to see community intervention, so that we can organise a family doctor at home, get the doctor to go home, and so that we have prevention, but also a post-Mediatric intervention in the community, so that we can really support the system, because what billions and if we throw into the health system, whatever government is, if we do not organise primary care in the community, in a scientific way, so that the doctor can complete the dossier, monitor the indicators, inform the EGE with all this material so that, in fact, we can take the measures that we need and maintain to the greatest possible extent the health of the citizen, be productive at the highest possible time, then whatever the system we set up, what billions and if we do, unfortunately, we will not have the result we expect. We should open an unrealistic dialogue, the whole political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u95	I will not disagree at all with the proposal that you are talking about primary care and the dialogue needs to be opened. In fact, you put the issue in its essence, because many times primary care in our country has been combined only with prescribing chronic illness, so that it does not play its real role, which is, as you described it, with the family doctor. Suffice it to say that since 2014 less than a million and a half people had reported having a family doctor. Surely the big bet of primary school is on such conditions that there is a family doctor, that there are health centers and TOMY. At the same time, in a broader and primary and prevention context, all the programmes that will be in place for the preventive examinations and all this system, if it is structured, will be able, to a large extent, to improve the conditions in primary school, including the TOPs, which have a specific, of course, working time framework, because they are financed up to a specific timeframe. What I said to you is that by February we hope that the final tables will be available and that the respective recruitments will be made available. With regard to the on-calls, on which we raised the issue, I would like to say that an amendment was adopted last week to cover a problem that actually existed. Indeed, if I remember correctly, you were also on a television show where it was also mentioned on this particular subject that we would be dealt with in order to solve it. We believe that within the year we will be able to pay the newspapers. I do not want to go back to the beginning of next year, but we may even be going. The aim is to get paid to people who have helped and deserve this money - on-calls - and I hope that we will be able to implement it. Now, with the budget you say, I would like to say that the health ministry's budget - and we are going to have the budget debate - is increased by about EUR 250 million. You are trying to create a picture with the extraordinary costs that exist for COVID and are referred to as reduced at this time, which, if necessary, will be reinstated at the same level and above. The estimate is that COVID will be less. On the contrary, in the whole of the health budget there is more money, especially for the primary, which you say, from the Recovery Fund there are 252 million euros. It is 190 million for an upgrading of fifty-six structures, is 50 million for a logistics infrastructure, so, basically, support for primary care again, and it is 12 million for other costs involved in education as well. So, our goal is in the conversation that will take place in the bill and for primary care, to hear all that you're saying. I believe that to a large extent there are some common references by most parties to the way in which primary care should be structured, in the direction that you have already said. There may be other differences in the context, whether there might be private sector involvement that we say, although you did so. Because, when we say private sector, we mean doctors, who, in any case, as an adviser to the EEAS, can play such a role and structure cooperation, in such a way that visits are not exhausted in prescribing medicines for chronic diseases, but can be visits, which will really help the citizen. All this talk will open up and know, Mr Kurubli, that I personally consider you to be a man who has dealt very strongly with the issues of public health and has sensitivity to this whole context. We will be very open to discussions, which must be done, because we believe that building primary care on solid bases has no ideological mark. There may be ideological disagreements, but on its basis I think we can also find common references.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second question, under number 879/32/4-11-2021, and request that Members B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Unjustified delays in the completion of a crisis and selection procedure for two branches of ESS specialists in Surgery Children's General Hospital in Athens (GNAP)'. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you keep saying publicly that you do what you can find permanent doctors and yet this case proves that this is probably not the case here. We come to discuss the issue of the coverage of two children's specialty doctors, in the country's largest paediatric hospital, a hospital which provides interchangeable information to the Children's "Agalas Sunday" and which as a fourth grade in practice, purely pediatric, covered by all the sub-divisions of children, often accepts complex and rare incidents not only of Athens but of all Greece. Let's remind you that Thessaloniki still doesn't have any children. So as the procedure for covering these positions is challenging, we have asked with a request for documents and a question to find out the reasons for the delay and what the situation is at the moment in the hospital's specificity, but we have no response. Mr President, I should like to address myself to you, as well as to the Minister, in the course of the procedure we are asking for the six documents provided for in the request for documents. This is two positions of surgery for children, which your government has announced - it is not some other government, but yours - in February 2020 and two years later there is no development. Two months after the notice, all the automated tables with the candidates' scores had been posted, and yet one and a half years later, no further steps had been taken to complete the procedure. Tell us if it's done. Is there no need for you to fill these positions? Even if one of those two clinical pediatric surgery the hospital has had in recent times since we had eight to ten surgeons, are there two left? You recognised the urgency of the case, because you have been recruiting executives with the provisions of the pandemic, but at the same time you have left the recruitment of permanently unresolved. What for? I shall conclude, Mr President. These positions should have been covered a year ago, as foreseen by your own ministerial decisions, which clearly define the timeframe within which the crisis and selection board are obliged to complete the crisis. It has not been done and it is a question of the legality of the procedures. Who's responsible? Is the President of the competent crisis and selection board responsible for not energising the procedures as foreseen? Is the administration of the First Health Region responsible for lack of supervision and monitoring of crisis positions? Are the Ministry's services responsible for the gaps that remain? What did the hospital commander do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u99	Mr Arsenis, on the subject you have raised in your question, was announced on 11 February by a decision of the children, including two posts of specialist doctors in the ERC. The information I have from the service is that until now no practical notification has been made by the 1st RU in order to adopt the relevant appointment decisions. In addition, it has been notified practically to the service of a post director of pediatrics for the TLP and the process of filling the post is under way. Referring to the themes you have put, in its decision of 7-2-2020, the Ministry of Health's positions were approved and the following positions were published for "Agia Sophia": one position of anesthesiologist, two anesthesiology or pediatric cardiology, one position of pediatrics, one ophthalmology, one ORL, two children's Surgery and one haematology. Of the following positions, the eight seats crisis has been filled and the four seats crisis is pending, including the two positions to which you refer in particular. The delays that have been observed - because there have indeed been delays - have to do with a number of service reasons, which absolutely need to be overcome to complete the process as soon as possible. From there, however, from 1-1-020 to 8-11-2021, the following posts - which are also the documents you have actually requested - relating to recruitment have been completed with permanent staff. Six people of medical staff have been appointed, a physician of intensifier at the ICU and at the level of subsidiary doctors, fifty - one medical staff and another two hundred thirty - eight people have been recruited. From this it is clear that at the moment they are serving in this hospital, total medical staff four hundred and forty-five people - are four hundred forty-four and a private doctor - and two hundred other staff. I hope very soon and very quickly - and also because of your question which has been raised, it has been contacted - that the procedure be completed for both specific positions, which you are referring to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u100	Thank you to the Minister and to keep time. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, beyond your last commitment that the matter will be resolved, the whole other answer was a first-time - I have seen you several times - an answer. It's like you wanted to fill in time, don't answer for any particular time. We know - and, as you said - that the appointments of those successful for the other specialities have been carried out and issued. We also know that it is completely subordinated to the hospital on permanent basis and the needs for the pediatric surgery it has to serve are huge. The Greek Children's Surgery Society itself, the Children's Surgery, that is, on 12 January 2021, a year after the announcement, sent a letter to the Governor of the First Minister, with notification to the then Minister, on the unjustified delays observed in recruitment, where they state: we know that the trained pediatric surgeons are now needed for the proper functioning of the Surgery Department of the "Agia Sophia". This, moreover, is demonstrated by the extraordinary intake on your part of an assistant physician in the corresponding specialty with the urgency procedure, due to a pandemic. It would be more sensible if you would proceed with the urgency procedure in calling for the two positions, without being forced to take up an assistant with provisions that are covered by the emergency health needs. Mr Minister, there has never been a response to this letter, which had been notified to the Ministry, beyond the Ministry. I wonder: What moves did the 1st Ministry of Foreign Affairs make to monitor, speed up and complete the crisis from this crisis and choice board? The Ministry's services were up-to-date? In accordance with a decision of the outgoing Minister for Health, it is laid down that after the post of automated lists on the SNE website and after 10 calendar days, the crisis and selection board meets to check the correctness of the candidates' electronically submitted supporting documents and obtain applicants knowledge if they are included in the respective list of eligible applications. Have these deadlines been respected? Did the board proceed to the first stage of evaluation? How were the candidates informed of the "fresh" of these positions? Who is responsible for delaying and failing to comply with the laws? Why, especially in this specialty, is there so much delay, while the others, as you said, other than two, have already proceeded to the point where the elected Members have been appointed? Is there two yards and two stations? To whose weight? Your government says it has accelerated recruitment procedures. We can see here that this account is being broken down completely and we wonder what purpose it is. Would you then come in and hire out of the list of auxiliary private child surgery specialists with a pandemic emergency, and isn't staffing with permanent staff urgently not urgent? Is the provisions of Law 4690 employment of private doctors in hospitals with this specialty? Correct me if I'm wrong, but based on what we read, it's not predictable. What's going on in this case, Minister? And I ask whether the way you actually understand, Minister, the strengthening of the public system is through subsidiary staff and controversial procedures, because that is what we are seeing in this case. She's criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u102	Please complete, Mr Arseni. We don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. What have you done to maintain the legitimacy of democracy in the candidates' evaluation procedures for these positions? What have you done to protect doctors who have decided to stay in the country or people who want to go back? They have applied for permanentisation and you do not respond by violating your own procedures for over a year now and you are putting them in a process that they cannot proceed with. You're finally sending them abroad. And the most tragic thing will, of course, be to be judged void or barren as a result of the non-compliance with the procedures envisaged, then you will really be a multi-stakeholder, Minister. I would ask you to present us with the six documents we have asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u104	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u105	Mr Arseni, you raise two issues which are not linked. One issue concerns permanent posts, the other with subsidiary positions. You come here to talk if it is or if something has not been secured by reference to permanent posts, but I have shown you that the hospital has been supported by subsidiary posts. Subsidiaries again serve the private doctor who is under contract, so they provide the services. From there on, these permanent positions must be covered and covered. I told you what the context is. Indeed, there has been a delay that is clearly linked to service reasons. I am telling you that it has not reached the Ministry of Practical Affairs of the 1st Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that I can tell you a number of themes that you are telling us, since this whole process is under way. There is nothing selective, if it were to be selective, that is to say, that the positions which you are saying might not have been published. Any posts requested by this hospital have been opened up to operate with ancillary staff, so its operation is normal. There are the problems that we are discussing with the institutions and we have met them all this time and we have committed ourselves to some issues, which will be done and we have told them that because of the pandemic some time was needed. What you're talking about is opening up the procedure. They will also be covered by permanent staff. And, of course, within a problem of delays, which have been in existence here, there has been no operational problem, because the coverage of ancillary staff again covers the needs. Does that mean that we are only relying on the subsidiary? Not for this reason, you can see that a total of notices have been issued for medical staff throughout the 1921s and they will come out in 22s and there have also been four thousand posts for nurses and nine hundred posts for other staff. So we normally operate to cover all the permanent positions that exist. Where there is a problem with the intensity of the pandemic, we have the auxiliary staff. It is a solution and subsidiary staff to cover precisely the needs for which it is an ancillary staff, but all permanent posts are being proclaimed, and if there are delays, we will also be intervening, so that in the context of transparency and dignity there will always be no delays. However, since many councils are working together at the same time, and there are, unfortunately, bureaucratic matters, these delays are also being observed. In no case, however, is the matter of neither non-operation nor of a secondment. Where there's a problem, we're trying to deal with it. That will also be the case with the specific procedure. From there on in accordance with the procedure again in the parliamentary work, which is the request for documents requested, you will also be given the documents provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fourth with No 249/6-12-2021 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems of staffing in nursing staff at the intensive care facility at Venizelos Hospital, Heraklion Crete". Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the serious problems in the operation of the ITH at the "Venezelio" Hospital of Heraklion result in the precarious conditions under which the unit operates, both for the staff and for the patients, when the fourth pandemic wave evolves. Workers are hitting the alarm for the repeated and systematic devaluation of their function, for the staff problems of nursing staff, which undermine the level of care provided and put at risk severely ill. In particular, in recent years, there has been a continuous weakening of the ICM by movements, which are not fully replaced or replaced by people without education and experience, responsible for the already heavy work of qualified nurses and the stress of the trainees. While education in the IMC is a major issue for the care provided, the IM in Venizelos operates with inadequate and highly untrained staff. In particular, from May of 1921 until today, nineteen people have been moved or left to other sections or structures, which have had experience of more than five years. On the contrary, thirteen people have moved to the IGC, most of them with little or no relevant experience. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Today, in the ICU, they are active forty-five nurses, six of whom are trained emergency and intensive nurses, with an end to their term of office in March 1922. At the same time, four are trained, one being a qualified nurse for emergency and intensified nursing and one with a six-month contract. In addition, the planning of the ICM is five, in turn, rooms, which creates additional problems, while in each room it must be one, at least, experienced nurse. This is impossible with the data to date. Despite the superhuman efforts made by workers in the ICM, in Venizelos, the situation in which the maximum necessary services are offered to patients, at risk - for those who are seriously ill, after any scientific directive on how intensive treatment units are operated has been circumvented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, we ask what measures the government intends to take to ensure urgent recruitment of qualified permanent staff at the "Venizelou" Hospital, especially by the nursing industry, is undertaken to ensure that contract workers are permanently employed and that all due days are taken, which -notably, Minister -, as a whole, to the "Venizelou" Hospital Site touches the four hundred days. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Finally, the health workers must be integrated into the heavy and unhealthy professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u108	The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Synthyaki, with reference to the subject you are referring to, "Venezelion" has become a total recruitment of auxiliary staff of nurses and qualified nurses a hundred and twenty-three people. At 31-12-2019 they served four hundred eighty - six nurses, and today five hundred sixty - two. However, there has been a serious problem, as you say, with forty-four departures, involving either retirement, resignation or suspension of duties. In order to cover this, there is a great difficulty, because there are no supplementary staff posts for nurses and therefore, in this sense, it is too difficult to cover with subsidiary staff. In order to cover these permanent posts, we have notice 2K/2019, which, from the thousands of sixteen places provided for by various branches and specialties, fifteen places are for this hospital, of which three are nursing posts. The notice 6K/2020 provides for twenty-four posts, of which 11 relate to nursing posts. There are both invitations, which are to share the positions of the four thousand nursing staff and the nine hundred ten posts of the other medical staff. Now, with regard to the function that you have mentioned, and indeed with regard to spatial issues, all hospitals were obviously forced to change. An additional six ICU beds have been added to this hospital, three CIVID clinics have become and four clinics have been transferred to the new building and the haematological has been separated from the oncological clinic. Obviously - we have already discussed this again and on your own question - the pandemic has forced itself to create specific CIVID clinical trials, but to have additional clinical ICUs, to make the necessary changes. As far as the staff are concerned, as I told you, the recruitments made were more. He is currently serving more staff, with more increased, of course, needs and because of the pandemic. From there, in fact, forty-four places are very difficult to cover by subsidiary staff and, as is the case in all branches of nursing, which is a problem - because there are basically no nurses on the list that are available to the subsidiary - we are trying to cover it in the best way possible and by means of the proclamation of permanent posts, but in any case, by a great deal, by moving around and in a way so as to provide the best service to patients, within the needs that exist and with the possibilities available, because there is no staff who want to be recruited and not to take out the posts. On the contrary, there is a great lack of staff in specific categories and specific ancillary staff to cover the posts until they are covered by permanent staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u111	Minister, I don't know how many you've done or how many you should have done in the whole "Venezelio" Hospital. In another debate we can talk about it, and I too have the necessary information for such a debate. But if you say that there are no supplementary staff seats, should you not have predicted pandemic conditions for two years now to go on with fast track procedures, as you do as government in other cases, so as to recruit permanent staff both and so as to meet the needs of intensive care units? Of course, this is not just about Venizelos, it is all about hospitals, it is all about intensive care units. So, a little bit still the same violin, trying to make patches, moves, merging clinics, and so on. So do you now consider it luxury that you should, by immediate procedures, go ahead to serve at least the intensive care units, serve hospitals, primary health care? And while you are aware of the dramatic situation of the parts that manage COVID patients, with the ICU keeping the sceptres, and indeed you are turning simple beds into ICU beds, with a monitor, that is to say, yet until today you have done absolutely nothing and are now trying to justify the unjustified, that I have no subsidiary staff to meet these needs. Therefore, instead of strengthening hospitals and clinics, you are going to close and merging hospitals and clinics, with anti-disciplinary criteria, setting the distance or the pretext of the low completeness of clinics, as was done in a similar case to the pediatric and pediatric surgery of the university hospital. A intensive treatment unit, Minister, consists of a set of logistics infrastructures operating in an area with specific safety standards and sufficient staff, aimed at continuous and uninterrupted patient monitoring and immediate treatment, when necessary. Unfortunately, these standards are not fulfilled in their entirety or in the existing units, let alone those which have been created on the ground in areas which are not suitable and without the necessary planning. And when we talk about ICUs, their souls, the soul of the ICUs are not basically machines, they are personnel, staff sufficient in number, trained, experienced in the management of the severely ill, to provide the best possible health services. And please tell us what criteria should be, the proportion of doctors per bed, the correspondence of nurses per bed, and if they exist today in Greece. No, they just don't exist. They are far short of the instructions of the World Health Organisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Greece and in this case, the whole opposite happens in the ICU of Venizelos. We're talking about adverse conditions in over-intensive rhythms. They have exceeded limits and tolerances in their constant efforts to meet these huge shortages in the unit. If you add the increasing demands, the cleaning hours, the non-authorization, the increased number of deaths, the sense of insecurity all of these lead to a stress, a depression, in an insomnia or even resignation. As I told you, four hundred offshore only owe me the ITH. They are the multiples at the "Venezelia" Hospital. And the solution that has been heard is to pay, he says, six days to six euros each. We're talking about humiliating now. I'm sorry about the phrase, but this thing is humiliating. And it is outrageous in the name of cost savings to leave the intensive care units and the health system as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Synthraki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. The causes of this dangerous situation are, of course, in your anti-grassroots policy, like the previous governments, with sub-financing and health trade. Workers obviously have nothing to expect from this policy. What they ask is by urgent procedures that you hire permanent staff and that intensive care units be provided, that contractors be permanent, that you pay all the days you owe them and put them in heavy and unhealthy. It's three things very simple, clean. Answer these, because only with these solutions is the problem of hospitals at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u115	Mr Synthraki, in less than a year, the five hundred IF beds have become a thousand tracheal beds of IF and in order to be able to support these beds, such as other gaps which have been in existence, there have been 12 000 ancillary staff in addition to what was in existence. Especially for doctors, more than two thousand ancillary staff and there were two thousand sixty - nine to cover permanent posts. The proclamation for permanent posts of doctors was for two thousand eight hundred fifty, more than was done in the five years of the previous government. So this government came and more than doubled the IF beds, staffed these beds with subsidiary staff. Because you said about fast track procedures, all this was done with fast track procedures. Staff have been found in these posts and if they are permanent or subsidiary they have nothing to do with the service provided. The service is provided by subsidiary staff, because it is the same staff who will later be serving permanent posts. And there were all the invitations to the permanent posts of doctors, while I told you that they are both large notices of five thousand places of nurses and other medical staff. At the same time in 1922 there will be new notices for medical staff. Therefore, all the efforts that have been made have been made. Where there is a problem is identified in three categories. They're charges that have to do with specific qualifications of doctors associated with the pandemic and there's no such medical staff. And over there we have moved with subsidiary and posted and staffed for the IFs - those who were found in the IFs became permanent - so that after the pandemic IF beds could also function. There were also private partnerships. Where there was a need for a service order. And there have also been partnerships with private clinics, whose IF beds we obviously pay them - there is, of course, the disagreement we have with the Communist Party of Greece, where, rather, the Communist Party of Greece says it clearly, the other parties have not understood what they say about it - and we use them with their staff. On second level, it's a very big problem for nursing staff. It's not that there's a nursing staff, and we don't call it in. When notices are made, notices are accepted. But, at the moment, think that we need a much larger number of nursing staff and that is a problem, that it is not on the subsidiary lists. And they've done all the proclamations for permanent staff in the nursing industry. Over there, however, there is a great loss that is total, as the demand for places for nurses is far greater than the supply of nurses that exist. And the third part is that in all of this, there have been suspensions, where they have burdened a certain situation and we have tried to deal with it again by calling for three months from the private sector, doing whatever it takes. Inside, therefore, all efforts have been made for this hospital as well. It works with more staff than it was at 31-12-2019. Obviously, when people retire or quit people, there are gaps that we are trying, as I have told you, with the numbers I have brought you, to cover them immediately. The function is performed in such a way that it is not at all difficult to serve all patients.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u116	We continue with the seventh under No. 253/6-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection on the subject: "Small Olga, crime without clearance". The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I don't know how much that needs to be said about what happened in Keracini. I'll mention some things that are less familiar. After the child's murderous imprisonment at 17.30, as we now know from the leaked deposit, officials were asked to shut down at the factory and do nothing. He accidentally passed a patrol car at 18:40, so he tracked it down. But listen. This factory is next to the fire brigade and across from the health center. I don't know if you're all people in here to realize it. That girl died because twice - twice! - The door hit it and stayed there. While the patrol car had located it at 18.40 ́, it was locked out by the fire department at 21.10 ́. The fire extinguisher is next to the factory and across the street is the health center! We want you, Minister, to explain exactly what happened. Who did the car call? What's the responsibility of a patrolman when he sees a man die, a child eight years old? Does he just record it in the incidents? According to the family lawyer, the file has such deficiencies, as the EKA's report lacks, evidence of who called an ambulance, what time did he say, and that is why the prosecutor returned to the litigation asking for further investigations from the Drapetson Security Department and the Piraeus Security Sub-department. We want you to explain why the case-file was incomplete and we also want you to tell us what steps have been taken to control the accident management plan by the relevant departments of your Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Economou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 17 November, at 18.20', the crew of a police officer from the Police Department of Keratsini - Drapetsonas, who was on patrol in the area of the tragic incident, was informed by the ambulance crew, who was on the avenue Republic that he had received a 10-year-old arrest mark at factory facilities on this highway, but not until that time has been possible to locate the unit. The patrol led the ambulance to the point where at 18.40 the victim was found locked in a galley without vitals. The immediate action centre was immediately informed and the police director - the supervisor of Piraeus Police, who went to the point. In turn, he informed the relevant departments, i.e. the Prosecutors' Office of Piraeus, the Medical Service of Piraeus, the Department of Criminal Research and the High Commissioner of Piraeus Police. At the point also went the service officer of the Keratsini - Drapetsona Security Department, who was selected for the pretext. I would like to clarify at this point, Mr Papoutsis, that, as I said before, the EPC had arrived, where it found that there were no vital functions. Consequently, the little one was dead. From that point on, all the procedures provided for in order to investigate death were initiated. And in order to move the body of the child, a series of inquiries should have taken place, such as informing the prosecutor, the transition of the coroner, the conduct of autopsy on the site, but also a number of other actions taken. This tragic event was formed by the Department of Security of Keratini - Drapetsonas, the legal file provided by the Prosecutors of Primary Piraeus on the 19th of that month. The case-file was returned on 23 November by the competent prosecutor to the security department by ordering a preliminary examination, as provided for in Article 31(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this context and with a view to in-depth investigation of all the causes that led to the loss of the life of a young child, documents were sent to the Labour Inspectorate, the Development Directorate of the Piraeus and Islands Regional Unit, as well as the General Secretariat of Industry of the Ministry of Development and Investment to provide information on the safe or non-functional operation of the electronic sliding door of the plant and any breach of the conditions regarding the continued supervision of its operation. I would therefore like to stress that all the necessary pre-examination actions are being taken to settle the case under the supervision of the public prosecutor, in which there is also the responsibility of supervision. To conclude my initial position, I would like, in reply to the second question you raise, to clarify that the control of the safety plan and the management of accidents in this area, but also in such facilities as a whole, is not the subject of the Greek police' s circle of responsibilities, but of other authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u120	Good. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like you to explain to us a little bit why the case-file was returned to safety, for which reason, the security did not include the necessary elements described by the family lawyer. I mention what I have in my hands. I don't know if it's exhausting. EKEB report, evidence of who called an ambulance, what time, what he said, etc. Is the case-file sent to the prosecutor to be incomplete? Is it common procedure for the prosecutor to send the file back to the security address? What just happened here? Because, as you can see, we would expect such an event to have done our utmost to bring it through and given the full information to the prosecutor by the Greek Police. What happened here? Why didn't it happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u122	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make it clear, Mr President, in reply to the question you have been addressing late, that the case-file was submitted, as I told you, on 19 November in the Prosecutor immediately, as the police were required to do. And the competent public prosecutor - and that is good, since we have the death of a person and not a small child - within the framework of its competence, has estimated that there should be further investigation. I should remind you here, as you know, that supervision over the preliminary investigations is exercised by the Prosecutor. It is not the responsibility of the Greek police, but rather the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. But in any case, I want to assure you that the case-file within the necessary time - given that 17 this afternoon happened - was brought to the prosecutor's office on 19 and from there and then on from the public prosecutor's point of view, the mandate was given for the continuation of the preliminary investigation work. This shows the will to investigate in depth as soon as possible this tragic event. But despite the different political and social origins that we have between us in this Chamber, despite occasionally acute political divisions and reflections, it is time I think that we should unite on a number of key issues for the benefit of our country for the sake of the next generations. These words, my political and morally worthy system dictates me to recognise the sincere interest of all of them in the face of the young people of this country. In particular, with regard to the protection and safety of children in this country, I believe that any political actions and initiatives of each of us aim to make the new generation, tomorrow's citizens of this country, able to lead our country forward through a path of progress and healthy development. So the state and, in particular, the Ministry of Citizen Protection have raised the protection of minors in one of the main priorities of the 2020 – 2021 Anti-Criminal Policy Programme and the Strategic Operational Programme of ELAS for the years 2021 - 2025. At the same time, all those initiatives that aim to raise awareness of all police personnel in the performance of their duties regarding the special population of our minors. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the death of a child is shocking us all. Our debt to the victim, his relatives and the new generation as a whole is to investigate thoroughly everything that has led to this tragic event. This is what the Greek Police do in the specific case of the early chaos of a young girl, professionally, empathetic, acting within the framework of its responsibilities and without fail respecting the requirements of the law, aiming to shed light on the conditions of this tragic event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u124	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the twelfth under No 262/12-2021 topical question by MP Thesprotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Marios Katsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Taking questions about the formal qualifications of the CEO of the Port Authority Igoumenitsa (OLEG), as well as the exclusion of the land area of the port from its sale." The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u125	Minister, I invited you here today to discuss an issue which concerns and concerns the local society of Thesprotia and Epirus and concerns the process of selling the majority package of shares of the Port Authority Igoumenitsa. Your government's decision is to grant at least 67% of the organisation's shares and at the same time at the same time risks giving the private person who will buy the entire coastal front fillet, the land area that does not involve port activities, but that is vital to society, to the citizens, to the citizens. At the same time, it is done in an environment where the agency's current administration, Mr. Secretary, has taken care to make the sale of the port a sale, and this is evidenced by the fact that for the first time by the balance sheet presented by the agency itself, we see that the net profits are EUR 93.940, while last year it was - 19 and all years around were around - 1.50,000 euros. Decrease 94.02%. At the same time we see that the results for EBITDA are also at a 84% reduction. Within the first year of administration, the administration appointed by you, the New Democracy Government, has held an unreasonable direct award party of EUR 1.7 million. It also gives us the impression that you have not answered the question I have asked you since 13 July 2021, I and twenty-six fellow Members of the SYRIZA, whether or not the appointment of the CEO is legitimate, i.e. whether he fulfils the formal requirements of Law 2932/2001, where he is required to be in this position. So I ask you straight away: will you tell us which parts of the land zone and whether they will be excluded from the concession procedure in order not to give a fillet and when? 'Cause so far you're totally inconsistent with the Ministry of Shipping, but also from the government as a whole, and they're all loading it up at the TIAD. And, secondly, is it legal to appoint the CEO of the current law-based director? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u126	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, let me note that the time when SYRIZA was shaking memorials and committed to words, of course, that it will cancel investment initiatives and tenders at ports and airports is over. And it ended painfully for Greek citizens with the signature by the Government of Tsipras of an inappropriate memorandum with new taxes and charges which only took back the country. We are not the ones who have committed the entire real estate of the state for ninety years, but the SYRIZA - ANEL government. We aim to exploit public property along with the obligation to implement investments that create goodwill for public real estate. Since the first moment our Government has gone through the HIDED to prepare viability assessment studies for the major regional ports of the country and to select consultants to best promote international competitions for the selection of investors and to exploit each port separately. This means that every port will be converted into an autonomous development polo at both local and national level, as new jobs will be created, trade movement will increase and there will be multiplier benefits for other sectors of the economy. For your first question, I must remind you that the selection process of the members of the companies belonging to the GOI S.A. is an internal procedure of the same company as it does not belong to the narrow or wider public sector, but operates under the legislative framework of public limited companies. Article 202 of Law No.4389/2016 of the Supreme Court Act that you voted for explicitly states that the GOI S.A. as a direct subsidiary of the Hellenic Company of Participation and Property, SYPS S.A., it does not fall under the rules of general government. Therefore, first, the members of the Board of Directors of the Port Authority of Igoumenitsa S.A. They were elected by the general meeting of the sole shareholder of the GOI in accordance with the applicable SGEI policy to serve the subsidiaries of his portfolio and the legislation applicable to them after his transfer to the SGEI. Secondly, the evaluation of the candidates for their suitability for the proposed position was carried out by an independent consultant of known prestige on the basis of which the members of the Board of Directors of the Igoumenitsa SA Port Authority were elected. Thirdly, it appears from all of this that the CEO of OLIG S.A. has not been appointed as a civil servant, but has been chosen by a specific internal procedure of the GOI S.A. Following a recommendation by an independent body and a decision to appoint it by the board of directors of the GOI S.A., which is the general meeting of OLIG S.A. I will also give my answer to your second question. Thank you. All of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am amazed by your reply that you are, first of all, indisputable - and let me be characterised - because in a previous topical question I had addressed to Mr Placiotakis about a year ago - last November, October, if I remember correctly - he had taken over the ownership of the political choice of the assignment, the sale of the majority package of shares for OLIG SA. And it's not about the so-called obligations you say you inherited from the SYRIZA government. Proof of this is that the law of the concessions of SYRIZA is followed at the port of Philip II of Kavala. In other words, there is no point in applying Law 4597/2049, but in Igoumenitsa you can apply your own provision, which is for sale. And at the same time, if one takes it into account in the fact that it has within a year of direct administration and at the same time reserves of 93 000 euros, and it is usually customary for them to have a net profit of more than a million euros each year, then it is a sale, if one is counting on the fact that neither the buyer is obliged to invest nor does it seem anywhere and is bound to do so. And the second thing that left me amazed is that here you admit that the procedure for the appointment of the management and the selection of director is carried out by an independent council appointed by the Private Property Responsibility Fund (IADF) and you tell us that the TIADE is, not least, not too much, a state in a state and does not apply the laws. I, frankly, cannot accept that the Deputy Minister of Government of the Hellenic Republic tells us that Law 2932/2001, Article 22, nor the adoption of the statute, Article 11(2), which says that the CEO must have a diploma. And check it out. I'm catching up with you. This is not a crisis or criticism as to whether the degree held by the current CEO is sufficient. We don't raise a question of professional rights if it has competence. We don't put that on. We're putting in a lawful appointment. You have a deserving past - not you personally, as a government - for the fact that you have appointed in the NRA a man who did not have the same degree and qualifications, to be appointed in that post, and then you have come by amendment and amended the law, so that Mr Concolles can become commander, you really have a well-established past. And from your non-response here and burdening all of them at the HICP, I obviously understand that the appointment is non-legislative according to the laws. Well, let us not forget the main issue of the concession of land area to the Municipality of Igoumenitsa. You are a district MP, Mr. Besiropoulos. You must understand the anxiety of citizens and residents. Last Monday the president of HIAD came to Igoumenitsa. He met with all the actors and said neither too much nor much that it will be given at some point, but he did not say to us: Will it be given before the privateer buys it? What pieces will be given? When? What timeline? So far - be careful to see - you have set up a committee among the Secretary-General of Finance, Shipping and others, where the decision to give the segments of the land zone was taken, but in the announcements they are loaded all over the TEAD. This mockery has to be stopped. So far Mr Plakkatakis had come to Igoumenitsa and said 'I will give it in six months'. It came in the summer, he said to us 'August end I will have given it'. The committee is taking a decision, and we are told 'I'm giving it up'. He comes to Igoumenitsa's CEO last Monday, tells us "I'll give it". Can you tell us specifically? Make a commitment: I'll give it back then. You'll get these parts and they'll be done before the sale, the sale, the sale to a private customer. These answers I expect to take from you and indeed, give us a clear decision as to whether the law was applied to the assignment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u130	Good. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u131	Colleague, for the first question I answered in my prototype. As far as the second question concerns the land area of the port is concerned, I should mention that the general meeting of the company of the Igoumenitsa OLIG SA Port Agency. has approved by decision of its extraordinary general assembly the decision of the board of directors of OLIG SA. and it has long begun the administrative procedure needed to amend and redefinite the limits and parts of the terrestrial port area. We mean the parts of the land zone that are not necessary for port purposes and activities in order to be granted to the Municipality of Igoumenitsa for the needs of the citizens and the city. This is clear, moreover, in the call for expressions of interest for the acquisition of a majority share in OLIG SA’s share capital, which has been posted in the central electronic register of public procurement, the areas to be granted in the tendering procedure, which clearly do not include the areas to be rendered to the local society, which will be declassified in accordance with the above decision of the Board of Directors of OLIG SA. That is quite clear. The relevant procedures and actions, such as the legitimisation of afforestations, the redefinition of hayal-lines and other similar, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Shipping, are already being implemented in order to follow the safe declassification of the above-mentioned parts of the terrestrial zone and to be attributed to the municipality. They are therefore aware that it does not have any legal basis and that it is in fact the parafiscality and intentional misinformation that is developed for the privatisation or concession of public and urban zones in Igoumenitsa, Plataria and Syvota, to private individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u132	Be committed to a timeline, Minister, you did not say a timeline.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u133	We continue with the second, with No 241/2-12-2021 topical question, by MP Lassithi of the Radical Left Coalition Emmanuel Thraniotis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Discrimination of the Ministry for the Opening of Higher Schools of Tourism (SETE)". The State Secretary for Tourism will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mr Thraniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, ASE students in Agios Nikolaos have taken over the school since November 11th because of the mockery under the euphemism of upgraded studies, as they say in their open letter sent to the Ministry and I will submit it in the Minutes, while demanding the resolution of a series of dating requests. Note that, all this time, they've been trying to get in touch with the Ministry, but in vain. From Thursday, December 9th, you also know that ASTE Rhodes has gone into occupation as well. It is well known that students of ASEAN are introduced through pan-Hellenic examinations with high ratings and even for many it is the first option, with scores of 18.5 thousand molecules up to 12.5 thousand the minimum base. They have high absorption on the labour market, because tourism despite the bankruptcy of the country that launched unemployment, especially young people at unthinkable heights in the memoranda, despite the pandemic crisis, is still a key pillar of the economy, with increased demand for skilled staff. The paradox is that while imported on academic criteria, they are deprived of the rights afforded by the Ministry, such as feeding, pass and others. The Ministry of Education did not approve the 'ERASMUS' programme either, and until now they could participate in the 'ERASMUS' programme because they are not recognized as higher schools and meet the criteria based on the number of teaching hours. The school of Agios Nikolaos is temporarily hosted in a municipal building that was awarded in 2006. Since, however, the 'neutrality of the temporary term' applies in Greece, it remains in the same building, which does not meet the needs of students' study. Under Ministerial Decision 2000/2020, the curriculum was published and concerned students of all years - announced by Mr Consolas, your predecessor, who had come to Agios Nikolaos and welcomed by both the local society and the students - but ten days before the start of the school year, the decision and the new programme will apply only to the new entrants of the year 2021 - 2022. The seniors, in believing your announcements, rented homes to make an extra year, but the year was lost, but new entrants are obliged to four years, essentially, to graduate with a two-year degree in IEK. The question raised, Madam Secretary, is what measures do you intend to take as a government in order to lift the gross injustice and suffering of students and their families while at the same time satisfying consistent over time demands, such as feeding, student pass and a number of other requests, but also for school and this year to work? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u135	Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u136	Mr Thrafaniotis, thank you for the question and the opportunity, above all, to discuss the issue of tourism education on the occasion of this unpleasant development of the occupation, and I say unpleasant, because my message to the children is that open school means openness, equal opportunities for all, and especially for the children who need it most. And we really know how many high-level students - subsequent students - study in schools. So the message is, let's open the schools. Our semester needs to go forward and from there on today we will analyse - I think - and if anything else, all the actions that have been done, done and done in terms of tourism education in Greece will be assessed. Let us remind those who are following us - and of course with respect to the Bureau - that the PMUs belong to higher education. This is otherwise specified in Article 16(7) of the Constitution. They provide high-level vocational education - you have said so too - our graduates have also been numerous, but, above all, they have been exploited by hotel and tourism businesses for too many years. They are anyway the historic perpetrators of the Higher Schools of Tourism, which have been operating since 1956. They have public, free tourist education, higher education. It should be noted that since 1956 the schools have continued to provide higher tourist education, which is differentiated from the IEC, and I will explain why it is different from the IEC. As you have said before, the system of pan-Hellenic examinations is in contrast with the IEKs. They know children, then, by giving these demanding examinations, that they enter higher education schools and not post-secondary schools, and that is also apparent from the professional rights provided by these schools. So our graduates, the graduates of our schools, have rights which are the same as those laid down by D.C.356/1989 with the graduates of the tourist business divisions. What does that mean? It means that the graduate of the School of ASTE and Rhodes and Crete with equal professional rights with the graduates TEI is recruited and appointed to a position of TEI - very important - and this obviously affects both collective labour contracts and receives an additional allowance in their salaries as graduates of higher schools. In fact, our students, our children, with these hotel schools, which are well-known, have practice with three summer periods of study. I stress this and I know that I repeat issues that are likely to have been set out in the question as well, because it is now hypocritical to say about the degradation of diplomas with degrees - and if you want an equivalency - IEK for all this. Because they have the guarantee of professional rights and, of course, have a stable and well-known service as graduates of these historic schools all these years. It is, as I said before, well-known that our graduates have worked and work and are truly refreshed by executives who graduate from our schools. In fact, we are making progress in both a study specific to the professional specifications and the rehabilitation of our students as graduates of all the schools of the Ministry. I stress this, because in no way would I want this conversation to be linked to a debate on a school deterioration. Let's go see what happened this year. I will use a little time, by reducing the time of dentistry, if I may, Mr President, always respectfully over the time of the Bureau. In the context of modernization, in December 20, a joint ministerial decision was signed by Ms. Kerameos, the Minister of Education, along with Mr. Manos Konsolas. Why did this happen? Because it really had to upgrade the content of the studies provided in every six months. I would remind you that there was a curriculum which had 1 and bar roofing lessons and we upgraded without underestimating any lessons. It is very important for the experiential education we offer. We upgraded all courses with courses such as hotel management, marketing strategy or human resources management. After the DSA's inhibition, why was the DCA suspended? Because we realise that we are at the start of an academic year all that needs to be done, the competition for books, the recruitment of new teachers to do with the new curriculum is a time-consuming process and not just a time-consuming one. We must be very serious when we talk about training programmes. We want to catch the thread from the beginning and look at the curriculum. So imagine that the children who were going to graduate this year had made a specific curriculum for already students. After really detailed consultation with the Ministry of Education - both Ministries - we have decided that, for reasons of rationality and non-return of the series of studies of the already students, we must graduate the students who have studied with this programme and implement the new curriculum - which is more reasonable - to the children who are now entering the first year so that we do not overthrow family planning and, of course, to plan for a flow and series of studies. I'll go on later, because I see I've already misused time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u137	All right, all right, Mrs. Zacharaki. Here, Mr Thraniotis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, may I sincerely welcome your intention to find a solution to the PMs. However, there should be concrete proposals, a specific timetable, so that you become persuasive, because it is unacceptable - I am sorry to say it - one week before the school year starts to tell students that 'you know, the bill that we voted for is not valid for you, and it would apply to all students, but it does not apply to new entrants'. Do you know what that means, Madame Undersecretary? Parents have been in trouble at costs in an area that has increased tourism, with difficulties in finding accommodation, with difficulties in responding to their expenses, with difficulties in feeding - which is not in existence - on the basis of the promise not to move, on the basis of the law, that there would be an upgrade of study for all years and not only for new entrants. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to refer to the fact - which is why I say that proposals with a timetable must be convincing - that your predecessor, with the communication on the upgrading of schools' studies, says in particular: 'I want to thank the Minister of Education, which understood the need to give a strong reformal mark to the structures of tourism'. And yet, Mrs. Undersecretary, Mrs. Keramea took that back. And how did he get it back? Speaking of a question we tabled in the House "in answer to your question, the Ministry of Education is unreserved, it has no competence to answer". And I'm really sorry. They are schools they have offered. With me, I have letters of support from the Panhellenic Association of Directors, from the Work Center, from the focus. They are people who make use of school graduates, but also in practice. Therefore, I sincerely - and I say this with all honesty - want to believe the good intention you have, but you should set specific examples so that the students can also believe it and return to their schools, because you know what that reminds me of? ERASMUS has not been approved by Mrs Kerameos because PSAs are not recognized as tertiary education. And it reminds me of something you don't remember, reminds me of a course that the students of the KEEA from Thessaloniki to Athens in 1972 claiming the upgrading of their studies, while the students of Athens left their school. It is a tragic - at least for those who remember it - incident that they traveled the distance Thessaloniki - Athens walking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u139	All right, thanks to Mr. Thraniotis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Thrafaniotis, the only way we want these children to walk is a path forward and I assure you of this and no path of suffering. However, because you have asked for specific things and I have to respond with data anyway, let's go see what we have done with specific things and with specific timetables and figures and figures. As I said, we have already proceeded with the international competition for the provision of the writings. Until then - as you do in universities many times, you know - operate and will work when with good children returning to class, slowly and truly hopefully very soon, as battles are fought with open schools, with open schools. That is where the battles of the public education system are gaining, and I insist on that. So, in addition, we went on recruiting teachers. They are twenty-six teachers at the ASTEC - the evaluation process was completed on Friday by the committees and they are indeed ready for recruitment - and twenty-four at the ASTER. In addition to the administrative staff who have been recruited for eight months, seven in ASTEC and four in ASTER, a permanent official who now comes to assist Ms.Astandardakis, the director, in his very important work so far. We saw it last week, and we analysed all the issues that we have raised today. Of course, I would remind you that five permanent teachers and three permanent managers are already serving in Asturias and Astere. In Rhodes five permanent teachers of different levels and six permanent managers. I told you about the recruitment process. I move on to issues relating to student matters, because it is also very important for the matter of student care. I would remind you that the three hundred six students of Rhodes and the seventy-seven-six students of Crete - the figures in any case prove interest - are provided with a housing allowance under the same conditions as the students of the Ministry of Education and with the vote of Article 225 of the n. 4823/2021 we begin as Ministry of Tourism contacts with the Ministry of Economic Transport and Infrastructure for the possibility of obtaining credits, so that the year 2022-2023 can also provide reduced rates of credit, such as for our students. Now for the building issues of the ASTEC, you said so from the date on which the question was asked, we do not have a private educational building. We use a building that has been granted to us by the municipality of Agios Nikolaos, and of course we also transfer funds to the directors of the educational units, so that as secondary authorizing officers they can use funds directly for operational needs. There is also a building outside the ASTEC and we have given specific instructions to the central agency of the Ministry for necessary leases - the Minister himself has done so many times - any necessary extra spaces. As a new governance - and indeed I had the pleasure of doing so - we have gone on to upgrade, Mr Papoutsis, after eleven years of practical training - and that is what you can assess - our students are, whether they are IEK or our ASTEC children. There are more businesses within the European Union too, if they wish, new and modern categories that we have decided and signed together with the Ministry of Education, Mrs Kerameos and Mr Hatzidakis for this possibility. And for 'ERASMUS' I can assure you that we are in constant contact so that we can examine all the possibilities that European space gives us so that we can return to some form of 'ERASMUS' and have the mobility of children. And very important, because we're talking about tomorrow, it's what we did. We have received technical assistance from the European Commission, Mr MEP, to the tune of hundreds of thousands of euros. There is already this thing in progress, to support, design and particularly to implement a new policy on tourism education, holistic, which has to do with all our schools, it obviously includes Rhodes and Crete - ASTER and ASTEC - to improve the services provided and, of course, a digitisation of many of the services we provide and a very significant improvement in lifelong training, but also in education. Technical assistance has been approved since August 2021 - you requested dates - it will last all 2022 and will be completed early 2023. We have already started meetings with the technical consultant from DG REFORM, we have already made a corresponding working group, we are going to an inter-ministerial management committee, because you realize that we have many functions and it is important that the ministries are in agreement - and this is what we are doing today - and we will have strategic studies and specific analyses on Greek tourism education. Of course, our aim, Mr Papoutsis, is to create a new and flexible body, a tourist academy, which will essentially deal solely with this issue and, of course, we are obviously talking about the integration of all the educational units of the Ministry of Tourism. We are envisioning a school and an academy that has a really upgraded content according to the requirements of a new tourist reality, which we already enjoy as a country. You saw the very encouraging elements of this period today, but also the very encouraging future elements of the interest that Greece now has as a very strong brand in tourism, I would say to you at the hospitality. And indeed - in order to make a recapitulation - we are moving on to the subject of the question to a clear new programme for the first year's children with a holistic approach, with the support of technical assistance from the tourist academy by 2023, so that we can plan to upgrade ASEs, which we started in 2021 in a specific way. I repeat, I call on the children to return to classrooms, that's where work is being done, and we can through synergies find the best ways of working together. They are high-level schools, they are high-level education and I think we can continue to provide it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u142	I would like to ask one question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u143	No, Mr. Thraniotis, the debate is exhausted. Before going to the next time-limited questions, let me say, in order to record the Minutes, that they will not be discussed in consultation with the Members with the relevant ministries, the Ministers responsible, four topical questions, namely: The fifth under No 248/4-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Government violates the judgments of the European Court of Justice by dismissing cleaning staff at the Ministry of Finance after twenty years of work." The sixth under number 257/6-12-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Enlargement instead of solving the problems affected by the earthquake in Arkalochori". Eleventh, with number 260/6-12-2021, is the top tenth question of the second question of the Corfu Parliamentary Coalition of the Radical Left, Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The quarry-band function of Corfu". The third, with number 255/6-12-2021, is a topical question for the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: "Reservation of sports facilities at the National Youth Sports Centre (EAKN) of Agios Cosmas". We move on to the debate of the first under number 263/6-12-2021 on the second time question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Anastassios, Mr Anastassios, Mr Chasou, Mr Chassou, Mr Hatzidakis, on the subject of "Institution of a reduced ticket to the MSMs for the families of third parties". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Ms Maria Syregella. Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, the demographic problem is stronger than ever and you know it very well. I am pleased that the government is pursuing a holistic policy with targeted interventions to help the Greek family and to convince young people to give birth to more children. One of the important measures in support of the third families would also be the provision of a discount for their transport by public transport. You know very well that it would give breath to two hundred and twenty thousand third-country families all over the country and support them further. I would like to ask you: what does the existing legislative framework for the transport of third-country nationals by public transport provide for? Does the government intend to introduce a discount on a ticket in this category? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that the demographic problem is a matter of critical national dimensions and a serious problem, not only for our country but also for the whole of Europe. It is therefore at the heart of the government's agenda and of the European Union. We have seen that there is a specific portfolio now with a Commissioner for Demography. Of course, the object is always to draw up and implement coordinated, but also targeted policies to stir up the trend of population decline and ageing. Demographic policy is inextricably linked to family policy and active ageing and to the promotion of gender equality. I am not saying that, after all, the report by the Intergroup of Parliament, which was agreed by the vast majority of the parties, other than the JRC and the Golden Dawn, had agreed. A careful study of the needs arising from transformation into the structures of Greek society is therefore needed and taking both horizontal but also more specific measures to enable them to be implemented and implemented over and above the length of time. That is why a national consensus is needed. They're here, and the gentlemen of Officerial Response are here. We have agreed on a report from the Intergroup of Parliament on this issue. We must, of course, recognise that the government is in support of every legislative and institutional initiative of the Greek family, and much more of the large families, thirds and luxury, through the promotion of equality, the harmonisation of family and working life and the strengthening of job protection for young parents. For example, we mention Law 4808, which extended the protection of parents, especially parents with increased family obligations, i.e. large families, and more fully ensured their jobs for as long as their children raise. We introduced the parental leave of four months for each parent with an autonomous right for each child, the first two months of which are subsidised by the OAED. Another important provision, which facilitates parents with increased family obligations, is the right until their children reach the age of 12 to seek flexible working arrangements whether they are teleworking or flexible working hours and, of course, while protecting their jobs after their return or when they return after such leave. That is, for the first time, there is a provision not only for mother, when she brings her child into the world, but also for father for a period of time. To this end, the 'Digital Care' programme was aimed mainly at supporting large families. From the program they could accept the tablets and computer digital care services all the income categories they receive in A21. At the same time we proclaimed two thousand ninety in the public sector, which were unemployed special categories, third-party and multi-text, which are covered by the protection provisions of Law 2643/1998 in various regions of the country, a process that the country had to take on since December 2014. Moreover, a measure which particularly facilitates parents is the ‘Neighbourhood dads’ co-financed by the NRP, which also relates to the financial support for working parents, especially mothers for infants. After all, this was also within the report of the Intergroup Committee of Parliament. We all agreed then. At the same time, we are already working on a national action plan for demography and family, based on the findings as we said from the Intergroup Committee of Parliament on Population, the European Union Green Paper on active ageing and the long-term vision for rural areas. The aim is after studying the particular conditions of our country to design and implement even more measures that respond in a coherent and holistic way to the needs of Greek families, especially when they are charged with increased family obligations, such as large families, covering the existing protection gaps. The introduction of the ticket discount for the members of the three families - for the multiples there is in their movements - in terms of public transport, is one of the measures being studied. We are in direct cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in order to ensure that it is implemented as quickly as possible, as we believe it will contribute positively to the relief of these families from the increased burdens they really face.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Minister, and you and Mr Hatzidakis, who have this issue high on the agenda, but also the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which, as you quite rightly say, is very sensitive to this issue. I am pleased that you are working on it, and I must recognise her own personal work in the demographic section. I would, however, like to thank both the Step of the House and the businesses I know very well in my home country, Serres, but also in the rest of Greece, that by themselves they offer facilities and reliefs to families with three children, which shows that the Greek society automatically supports demography. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u149	Mrs. Shrengla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u150	Very briefly, I would say that the part of the demography, because, as we have said, it is a national issue that we must see and face up to, and it should be based on the cooperation of all of us, whether we are public bodies or it is a private sector. We see from the private sector, as you said, Mr Hadjivassiliou, that efforts have already begun within the framework of corporate social responsibility for the part of demographicism and of course the civil society organisations. Only when we're all united together, then we can do the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 258/6-12-2021 topical question of the second question of the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alexis) A gift to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled "The inertia of the government to take support measures leads to the collapse of the income of thousands of Corinthian raisin producers". The Minister for Rural Development and Food will respond, Mr. Spyridon - Panayiotis (Spilio) Lebanonn. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, among the products of primary production which have been severely affected by the pandemic have been in place for two years, as you know very well, and the raisin. Since the previous growing year, producers and cooperative organisations have been warning that the significant reserves of raisined raisins that had been accumulated and left unstoppable would have a serious impact and would have an impact on producer prices this year. In last year's stocks remaining in warehouses, the quantities of this year's and increased production are also being added, while cooperative organisations that could up until last year offer support to organised producers, with decent prices, are now failing because of accumulated stocks to fulfil this role. Collaborative organizations are therefore also presenting the largest stocks at the moment and are suffering the most powerful blows. As a result of all this, Corinthian raisin producers are handed over to private traders, with unfavourable trading conditions, with traders exploiting this crisis that exists in the industry, with the almost zero demand and the inability of cooperative organisations to intervene. There have been months, Minister, all these warnings from farmers, from cooperative organisations. Unfortunately, we have not seen any action on the part of the government so far to tackle this very big problem. You know that I personally do not like very dramatic tones, but I must tell you that right now in this particular case I cannot say that if there is a word that characterises the situation in which the grape growers are in my area of Messinia - but also in all the prefectures of the Peloponnese, and in Achaia and Corinthia and in Laconia and in Argolida, but also in Ionian islands - the word is despair right now. They are now in a despair situation of twenty thousand raisin producers and their families. So I ask directly and we expect a clear answer from the Ministry: what action do you intend to take and in what ways will you support the income of the producers affected? Are you planning with the co-legislative ministries - not only your own issue - to take advantage of insurmountable quantities with the State, to act as a buyer of a last resort, so that this excellent product can continue its way and continue to be produced on Greek land, agricultural production, in our country? Questions are crucial, Minister. We are in a very difficult treaty. The whole pandemic crisis has created suffocating conditions for producers. It is very important, at last, that action be taken on the part of the Ministry and the Government as a whole so that thousands of raisin producers can rely on these extremely unfavourable conditions. Otherwise, I fear that the future of this historic product for our country will be very uncertain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u153	Mr Lebanese, Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Haritsis, for the opportunity to return from the Step of the House on the raisin issue. We have answered both myself and the Deputy Minister of State, four topical questions, and we have already made over ten meetings with the producers and the cooperatives of the raisin on this issue. In fact, you give me the opportunity and I will take advantage of the time not to place myself on everything you put in the written question, but on the substance of the matter, and to say again here at the Delegation how much we have already done for the raisin and perhaps some misunderstandings have been made, perhaps some things have been misunderstood and perhaps they have not been contacted with the real producers that have happened. I repeat, as I said before, that the government's decision to support all those tested is given, all the producers who have been hard tested by the successive crises of all products. Evidently the same applies to the emblematic product of the raisin. I repeat, as I have said before, that we have ensured the money to cover the damage arising from the difficult times that we are experiencing. So the money we need to cover the producers is there, Mr Haritsis, and I would like you to transfer that to the producers of Messina. Because we believe in this flagship product, as you have seen, among other things, despite the fact that we have had many negative suggestions on the contrary, we also have the link to the raisin and this is very important for our debate. We have had a persistent position in particular from the Union of Egypt, but also from the Messina Union throughout the last few years since we started discussing this issue last spring for withdrawal, it was their position. And when I checked it, because at first I heard them, the European Commission's position was negative. In June of '21 when I addressed to the European Commission's Directorate-General of DG AGRI, I was explicitly and unequivocally excluded - and I put this right to the attention of the Unions and producers who were coming, because the Unions were mainly coming to the table in our debates - the possibility of doing so with regard to the withdrawal of stocks. I have said that and in the House it was not my position, it was the European Union's position, because this leads to unfair competition. I continued and placed myself at the highest level, as you both know, because you have been Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to the highest Council of Ministers of the European Union. That is where I raised the issue of this flagship product again, and I can tell you here, together with others in the Minutes, that I have a position on it. Nothing came out. I was returning and sent a new request in writing to the Commissioner responsible and at the same time contacted the services of the Ministry with the services of the committee, as I had done during the summer I told you before and took a rejection from DG AGRI. What I shall be tabling is the new rejection from the office of Commissioner for Agriculture. As you can see, no withdrawal is possible. That's what I've been saying all along. So we come here, having lost a few months to be on the same spot, where we started, because the committee does not allow us to withdraw. What did the committee propose as a solution? The use of the three-year programme for the distribution of fruit, milk and vegetables in schools so that we can absorb the stock of the raisin. That is something that we had examined at the Ministry before the committee told us since the first moment in months. But the competition was already in an advanced stage with the other products that I mentioned before. The notices on the implementation of a programme have been out for a long time and some are already in the Court of Auditors for audits. Any overthrow we are now or have made it a few months ago would actually jeopardise the whole programme, so we would also raise a question in this programme for schools. So, and that is not a solution, which we can implement. I shall present here to you the relevant suggestions made by the agency on this issue, by our Ministry, which is negative and precisely certifying the dangers of this whole programme being lost to schools. I have also been addressing all my colleagues at the first moment - what you are proposing, that is to say, to do now, we have done so for months - and all the relevant ministries for the possibility or the possibility of absorbing raisin there as well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I am tabling all the letters I have sent, and unfortunately I have not received any positive answers from anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u155	Minister, you have a right and a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Mr President. As you can see - and I mentioned it once again, to be concentrated - we have done all the efforts that are possible to solve this problem. I have been calling for cooperation between cooperatives throughout the time available to you today and, of course, for participation in this dialogue between producers. I understand that to a very large extent there may have been misinformation. We therefore give the opportunity next Thursday, 16 December, at 16:30, for all producers, all producers' associations. Of course, the associations of Zakynthos, Aegeans, Messinia, Elias and Corinth, together with the producer groups, will also come and discuss the possibilities available within the framework of the law and Community regulations. If you have any other idea or disagree with that, please, in your dentistry to tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because I want to be fair to you, I think that the associated aid, as you said - and obviously if you say so to the National Representation, is a commitment by the Government - established for the 2017 raisin by the SYRIZA Government remains and is not the case, the publications which were talking about withdrawal of the raisin from the programme are not valid and are still in force. So that's good. From that point on, however, I understand that you have started your place, saying that there is money in relation to aid. But then from history, which you did well and presented about what happened all these months in relation to this case, I understand - and correct if I'm wrong - that we are leading to a dead end right now. I would also expect to see the documents which you will be tabling in the Minutes, as you have said, in order to confirm what you have just said, that also on the part of DG AGRI of the European Commission, that is, the competent Directorate-General, it is essentially forbidden to have the withdrawal procedure. This, if confirmed, also shows the responsibilities that exist at European level for this problem. From that point of view, however, I think that the government should take all possible steps to find a solution. For example, the co-responsible ministries cannot, on such a serious matter, assume their responsibilities. The government centrally needs to make a decision if it will support this product if it - if there is no European option - is not to be used, for example, national funds more to support producers. I say this, Minister, because I must tell you that at the moment, the situation that producers are experiencing is really an unprecedented situation, a suffocating situation. Consider that together with the great crisis created by pandemic we have at the same time the crisis of accuracy. I mean, precision in production. I hope at least that you do not agree with the position of your colleague Minister for Development that there is no accuracy. You know very well that production costs are at the moment too, and that is also about oil, but it also concerns electricity, but it also concerns the raw materials used by the producers, it also concerns fertilisers. Producers are therefore faced with an unprecedented situation, due to these multiple crises and pandemics, so also on the issue of the market and the demand for a product, but also on the question of production. So the government, the state, cannot move forward and strengthen these producers. It's important, positive that this meeting you're telling the Ministry this week is taking place. So now we have to put forward concrete proposals at this meeting. How are we going to deal with this problem? What's gonna happen? Will the other ministries assume their responsibilities too? Will the Ministry of Finance also assume responsibility for strengthening this industry? And I must tell you that, because I imagine you know it, the stagnant issue - those who read the economic history of this country - is concerned with the Greek state, but especially with the areas of our own, Messinia, but also with the entire Peloponnese, already in the late 19th century. Why is that so? Because we are talking about a product which affects the local economy as a whole. It is not just a sector that is affected. Through the raisin there is actually a crisis that is much wider for the local economy and that is why I am tabling letters from the Messina Chamber of Deputies and from the Messinia Union, precisely to show the widest extent of this crisis. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is necessary for the government to realize how serious this problem is. It concerns the producers themselves and their families, which, as I said before, are desperate. But it is also about the whole local economy, because in conditions of multiple and parallel crises, pandemic, accuracy, energy costs, it is also about adding this crisis which creates extremely suffocating conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I would ask you very much at the meeting that will also take place in your ministry to present concrete realistic proposals, which, in my opinion, must also concern the use of national funds. That is why there must be a debate with the co-legislative ministries, since you say - and I have no reason to question it - that on the part of European programmes and Europe there can be no support.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u159	Finish, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u160	To make use of national funds, otherwise I am very afraid that the cultivation of this national product is being brought not only to date, but also to tomorrow, in a very uncertain and precarious perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u161	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, there are other products that accept this pressure due to the multiple crises. In all products, as far as we can and as far as the budgetary conditions allow, we ensure support for farmers and producers. Where we can do what we can and allow us. The Vice-President, please, who has a lot to do with agriculture, tells us very often that we do not do everything possible, and we could do more. I understand that. The possibilities we have are limited and in this context we are working. So, for the raisin, we could follow the path of producer support, as we have done on all other products. Things have been confused here because there is stock in the Union of Egypt and the debate has been blocked, not because we do not want to or do not have the opportunity to cover the damage of producers, but because the state at the moment cannot absorb - to get, as I told you before and proved by the documents - the stock from Panayialio. That is the big problem, and if we had led to the solution that I proposed from the outset, which we will repeat on Thursday in order to find a solution together, I believe that we would not be here. However, the money has been ensured that they exist to cover the damage to producers, to the extent that they can. However, I would like to say, in order to prove the measure in addition to the linked one, that Corinthian raisin producers have already received repayable advances of EUR 10 million now. Processing companies have also received 3 million euros. At the same time, OPEKEPE accepted the request for an extension of the time limit for the delivery of the product to receive related aid for producers until January and for processors until 18-2-2022, so that they would first give the product for the purpose of applying the related product. And the Panayialion Union has received 350,000 euros as a repayable advance and 386,000 as interest subsidy. Also, the Guarantee Fund, which we have created to strengthen producers and businesses, has already lent 7.5m euros to Panayialio. I mean, in other words, with all of this, we are close to the problem. We must also be trusted by the associations of Messinia and Egypt in the fact that what we tell them is true, as is demonstrated by all the documents. So, with great pleasure on Thursday, we will accept to the Ministry and the Messinia Chamber, to which you referred, and the Union of Messinia, and of course - I say it again and urge them again - the producer groups of Messinia and the other counties, so that we can all see how we can use the money we have put into the band just for raisin producers. It is a fact that we know the history and we know very well what the position of the raisin was. Above all, however - because history is history - we are interested in the product, because it is a super food that we want to develop. I told the House last time, and I have told the producers themselves. So, if we eliminate these misunderstandings that have been made, which have arisen from people who do not care as much as the producers themselves, the associations, the cooperatives and the Ministry are concerned, then I think we will all be able to find a solution together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the tenth question under number 259/6-12-2021 of the Second Cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The continuation of agricultural production is at stake." Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are about to discuss this topical question for the last two days after the very strong rainfall in particular in western Greece, which struck and flooded crops, destroyed machinery, entered the stable facilities and lost both feed and animal infrastructure. I imagine the mechanisms will be triggered immediately. This comes in a year when we have a series of problems, perhaps in the worst year for primary production, where apart from the weather phenomena, starting from February of 2021 the pandemic mediator, but reaching September, where we have the great wave of precision, primary production is really threatened. And to see how far ahead we are and that what we are saying and shouting has nothing to do with being pleasurable to some, especially to the government - the role of counterpopulation is not to be pleasurable, but to convey the agony - we tell you this. These days on the subject we are discussing here today, the Council of Ministers is convening precisely on the issue of the food crisis because of the cost and the pandemic. What we are now discussing is being discussed in the Council of Ministers. Then, then, the payment of the basic payment, which was indeed the worst of recent years, comes in a few days, the payment of basic aid and green aid, which we hope will not be the way the advance was made, that corrections have been made, and we have at the same time the question of accuracy, which, as you well know, the price of oil has almost doubled. The price of electricity, with the adjustment clause, has almost tripled. At the same time, we are the championship country, in fact, in the kilowatt now in electricity. As far as animal feed is concerned, we know and know well that they have increased from 30% to 40% and in some areas they are 70%. We also have the main problem with fertilisers, where according to the BLOOMBERG figures - which I will testify for the Minutes - the price of ammonia, a cheaper, otherwise fertilizer, basic for the production of a nitrogen source, at the beginning of 2009 was $210 per tonne and has exceeded $ 900 at the moment. From 210 to 900 dollars the price of ammonia. I'll give it to you for the Minutes. So we ask, Minister, what measures you have taken so far, if you consider them satisfactory and what you intend to do so that we do not face a food crisis next year. Because we are now in the time when the seeds and crops of next year are being planned. So in front of us we have the threat of the food crisis. And finally, tell us whether there is a grid of measures and what is the timetable that extends. Because, as we will say in the budget debate, it seems that there has been no package within the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u165	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, for the new disasters in western Greece, which we are all seeing are constantly coming from the effects of the climate crisis, you know very well that we have direct intervention constantly and we are creating solutions through state aid, at all levels, in a very short time, and you know how long this was. Yesterday and after the rainfalls which caused all these problems, both I and Mr Stylianides went to all parts of the major disasters, particularly in my home country of Ioannina, and then to all the mayors and the district managers and the relevant Vice-Presidents and the technical actors in the region and the Ministry of Infrastructure, we held a meeting in which we set up a plan for how to deal with this natural disaster. The first measures to be taken concern immediate relief, concern other ministries. In our part, as in the previous natural disasters, once it is possible - even from now on where the auditors of the ELGA will go - they will look to see the disasters and then we will appreciate the rapid process that we have been following - not the one you who took three years - we will compensate these people for their losses. Now, as far as the part of your question is concerned, you raise a real issue that no one can see before him. The primary sector first comes from the twin crises, from the coronary and the energy crisis. But, frankly, Mr Arachovitis, as much as you are trying to convince society, I do not think you can convince yourself when you come and say that a Greek government is responsible for this crisis. Not ours, whatever. This is a double imported crisis that is coming and facing all the countries of the world. You know very well that the Greek Government has done everything possible to deal with this problem. I recognise, of course, that there is a problem both in energy and therefore in raw materials, which we are trying to deal with and support our producers. You also know that Greece, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with him at the front, is among the first two countries to ask for such measures and they have implemented such measures in Europe and, at the same time, adapt them in line with developments. You know, very well, because all Greek citizens, even those who voted for you in the last elections, have voted for SYRIZA, that they are making their crosses all who are handling this crisis Mitsotakis and are not handled by Kammenos with Tsipras, who is handling this crisis by the Ministry of Health and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance and not by Mr. Paulakis who would handle it if you were in power. You also know that we have spread a social protection net of EUR 40 billion throughout this period. And you know that because we spread this social cohesion network over the past few months, we have been able to be champions in recovery, which appeared strongly in the third quarter, and it will also appear in the fourth and, therefore, to leave this vicious circle. You also know that we are working with all the co-authorised ministries to relieve our producers of the issue of energy and raw materials increase. And, of course, you never told us what you were doing five years ago when you were at the steering wheel of this ministry just to support the production of feed and raw materials in our country. But, Mr Arachovitis, I will now list what we have done these weeks and what you have not voted on. Not only do you propose nothing, but the relief measures we bring, you are voting against them. First of all, you consider that the refund of excise duty on agricultural oil is a small measure. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u168	Yes, sir. And you didn't vote for it. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u170	Well done. So you think what we will give from 1st of the month, which you have abolished - to return to the Minutes, you have abolished it - you are coming now and you are voting against it. Secondly, a reduced VAT rate of 13% to 6% is applicable from 1 October. You didn't vote for that either. Thirdly, we have anticipated significant reductions for low-voltage users too. It was launched in September and, for example, I mention that in November and December, the reductions will reach EUR 130 to 150 per kilowatt. You didn't vote for that either. For the average trend, namely for rural enterprises, we predicted the suspension from November 1st to March 31st 2022, with the possibility of extending the payment of public service charges. You didn't support that either. Since August 5th, PPC has provided an energy discount of 50% on agricultural tariffs. You don't support that either. I will submit to the Minutes relevant documents of the Ministry of the Environment and PPC to study them and change your mind. We also increased in June the kilowatts in the rural photovoltaic and made sure that renewable energy sources were exploited by up to 500 KW from 100 before. So, as you can see, we increase agricultural income and reduce production costs. Nor did that, Mr Arachovitis, you voted for it. You don't like that either. After all this, you come today, in this way you are talking about, and you tell us that we have taken a few and slowly inadequate measures to deal with this imported - I repeat - problem, which has arisen. I think that with this strategy you simply confirm that you are a party of the sterile refusal, without substantial proposals, which you are trying to fish in the shallows and take advantage of this real crisis, which it is putting against our farmers, in order to gain micro-party benefits. I am sure you understand your mistake and even at the last minute you could come and say: we support, my child, some of these measures that we think are right and we propose so much. Here we are to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u171	Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, can I now tell you that you have disappointed me with your answer? I was expecting you to tell us something we didn't know. You're running to tell us, 'cause you've probably forgotten that. You think Paulakis is still running, who, in passing, has been saying it about the monoclonals you are now celebrating, has been proposing it for months. So if SYRIZA and Paulakis ruled, the monoclonals would already be here. And certainly we would not have seven and a half thousand less health workers in health, in the midst of a pandemic serving on your day. But unfortunately, we don't govern what to do. You're commanding. You told us now about measures. You told us rather that the crisis is international, so 'what to do, guys, we'll wait for it to pass'. You also told us SYRIZA didn't do anything. I would remind you that SYRIZA in his term of office was reduced by 12% in the middle of a public energy agency, the one that, if you remember, sold me a dowry a few days ago. Also, let's see what you did. Not to say about support for farmers, with all the measures, about the regularity of payments, about the retroactive payments made by SYRIZA, about the three taxfree on your own law, in 4172, because you had ruled before, if you remember. Because SYRIZA first ruled four and a half years. He hadn't ruled before, if we remember. Indeed, since you referred to excise duty and think that people are forgetting about it, I will tell you that their abolition was voted in the summer of 2015 with 222 votes, so your votes too. But, to say this, you spoke of measures. The measures first of all that you have presented to us do not reach the world and do not address the problem, that is what we tell you. For example, you are talking about freezing - you voted last week - suspension of OHIM charges on electricity accounts. This is only about 5% of farmers' tariffs, just 5% of the total invoice and you are talking about suspension, not abolition or anything else. So 5% of the invoice is suspended for a few months. Do you consider that support? Are we serious? Is that the support you give? You are also talking about an ELGA, who reminds you of the state of the organization in 2014-2015, an organization that had debts back years. The debts were all repaid, entered order in the payments and in the estimates of the ELGA, compensation was given on time. And I would remind you that when we paid 70% of the deposit, you yelled. Now that you legislate 40%, do you want a consensus? Do you want a consensus at 40 percent when you yelled at 70%? We handed you an organization with a proportionate study ready. Where is the proportionality, Minister, for changing the regulation? You continue with a '80s rule. We started in the four and a half years when we were running a proportionate study of the change in the regulation. Where's the analogy? And well, your predecessor had his ideas, he believed that private insurance would solve everything. You, who consider a man in a broader spirit, why don't you even continue what he started? Are you asking us for a consensus? Are you blaming us for consent? If you mind the harsh opposition, with proposals, with positions, with criticism, that is not our problem. But you need to look. We're here. In any case, you know that we are open to dialogue. What we're putting forward is documentary. We are putting forward proposals and this is no time for chicken fighting here. Here we transfer the agony, we're not here to be pleasing to anyone. We're transferring the agony of the world. So tell the world, as your colleague, Mr. Georgiadis, says, that the crisis is imported and where it will go, it will pass. That's what you tell him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u173	Well, Minister, you have the floor, but you have a warm request to respect the time limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u174	You are right, but because of a lack of arguments, my colleague raises many other issues than the question. On the substance, what I understand is that you are telling us here in our debate that we have taken action, but that is not enough. It is clear that we are constantly trying to work nights so that we can find good solutions within the financial framework. But, Mr Arachovitis, we have taken some measures. Why didn't you support this? Why do you have a sterile opposition position and you say 'these are little, they are not enough, but we are also voting against them'? Again, to be clear, obvious, and everyone understands that, this is a global crisis that is also being introduced into our country. But we are not saying, and I am not saying, at the moment in our debate, that we are waiting for the crisis to pass. We are doing everything we can to try to strengthen this grid that we have of 40 billion all this time with other moves at the moment to support social cohesion and support Greek and Greek producers. You do not participate in this support. You have put yourself here and said in total on various issues, obviously because you do not have any arguments for the substance of the debate. Let me just say what I understood. Apart from the fact that you have nothing to suggest, to support our producers, that you support logic, Polakis. With your pleasure, however, Greek society does not want it, and that is for granted. Also what did I understand? That you're a little confused about what you guys left behind and what you've got here today. And you are also a little confused about whether the government is committed to strengthening the National Health System. It is, and it strengthens it all the way. You have come to discuss two issues which, unfortunately, are big black holes for the governance of SYRIZA. The first was ELGA management. You left an ELGA with incredible problems, in which in the last two years, under the leadership of Andreas Lykourentzou has become a very substantial household, and at the initiative of the Prime Minister from the budget, these 35 million were given to enable ELGA to stand on his feet, who would collapse if you were still in power. And because you refer to this famous proportional study, which is not a proportionate study, but I have read it - I do not know if your colleagues have read it - we are working on it. We have asked for a proposal from the World Bank and we are trying to solve the problem you have left at the mercy of God and you have not made a reform decision. Finally, you spoke of PPC. You ate a Waterloe in the head, Mr. Tsipras from Mr. Mitsotakis a few days ago in the House, and you haven't learned anything yet. You've dissolved PPC. This government has saved her, multiplied the public property despite the fact that you don't see it. Everyone sees it on the stock market tableau. Everyone knows how to do the mere mathematics. And you come here today, which is not your subject matter, and you are once again extinguishing the same problems you have brought when you were in power. What does that prove to me? That all you're interested in is creating problems, bringing in turmoil. This - and especially after the developments in your next party - will cause you great problems for your future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u175	We continue with the third with the 261/6-12-2021 topical question of the first Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Is there a political will of the Government to support workers in food-tourism?' He will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu, State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs. Mr Mulkiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Despite what we have heard from the Minister for Rural Development, unfortunately farmers are at the worst post-war position. This is a reality that is not questioned. Minister, food - tourism is our question. The pandemic of the coronary is well aware that it has changed all the data and the manifestations of life. The consequences on the workplace have a very serious negative impact on workers, particularly seasonal workers, who have been severely affected. There are serious problems with survival due to the pathogenesity of any predictions there have been - and I am referring to seasonal workers. There is a government responsibility which, unfortunately, has not corrected anything. According to a complaint from the Panhellenic Federation of Food Workers - Tourism, the failure to appear in the "ERGANI" system of unilateral suspensions for the years 2020 and 2021 has caused huge problems for employees in the food-tourism sector, as these workers are unable to obtain sickness benefits, benefits from the ECA, etc. At the same time, there is an important question as regards the cases of pension applications. Another case which is of major importance and interesting. The new subsidised workers in food - tourism, for the first time in order to qualify for unemployment subsidy, seem to have carried out eighty working days in each year since the start of subsidisation as new subsidized people, which is most often completely impossible. The current criteria, Minister, for subsidisation of unemployment - you know - lead many workers in the food sector - to despair and economic impoverishment. They're not schematic reasons. That is what we are saying and we must in any case make provision for the possibility of a regular unemployment subsidy for these people and the government must take a number of decisions. So you ask two specific questions: First, do you intend to proceed to the necessary administrative steps to ensure that the days of insurance in the time of unilateral suspensions, 2020-2021, are automatically recognised, without other conditions? Unique Inhibition 2020? These days. One-sided inhibition 2021 days? These days. To be completed before the occurrence in the ERGAN system, in order for these workers to receive the benefits they are entitled to in good time. And we are talking about the unemployment, sickness, maternity allowance, which today are depriving them of. What if there's such a prediction, is there a timetable? And second question, Mr Minister: does the government exceptionally intend to take measures for the new seasonal workers who will for the first time enter the unemployment fund for the first time, so that they can join the unemployment fund, subject to the completion of fifty days of insurance, but without the additional condition of the eighty days per year in the previous two years from what we say? These are the two questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u177	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, ladies and gentlemen, the government's political interventions and actions aimed at strengthening workers of a seasonal nature, many of which belong to the tourism and food industry, continue today, despite the fact that the market operates very close to what one would call normality. On the first question you raised and on the insurance of seasonal workers who made unilateral statements of suspensions to tourism and food operations which were not operational in 2020 and 2201 due to the pandemic, a specific procedure was laid down in a decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs to allow insurance cover for all workers in this category. This decision provided for the submission by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of separate analytical reports to e-ECA, as well as the payment of the corresponding financial contribution of the employees. Based on the information received from the e-ECA Employees' Tax Department for the period from 1-6-2020 to 31-12-2020, detailed periodical statements have been submitted by the Ministry of Labour in which, in the context of the above procedure, approximately thirty thousand seasonal employees of all sectors - not only food - tourism - were arranged and their insurance agencies informed. As you can see, this procedure was not only new but also time-consuming, as it had to be implemented within the period of special conditions created by the coronary pandemic. In addition, for the submission of detailed periodic declarations, the corresponding software had to be developed. At the same time, a large number of checks and cross-checks had to be carried out between the records of the "ERGANIS" information system with those of e-EFKA to identify the insured who made unilateral suspension declarations. And here comes the question you raised in your speech. In the electronic submission of the detailed periodic e-ECA declarations, further checks on the correctness of the contents shall be carried out. Wrong entries identified shall be corrected and re-issued, with the result that a long period of time shall be required to incorporate the insurance data of analytical periodic statements into the e-ECA information system. The above procedure has been completed for all months of 2020 and at this stage the individual insurance accounts in the information system of the e-ECA are electronically updated. However, there have been fourteen thousand - attention, we are now talking about fourteen thousand to thirty thousand - unaccompanied declarations of unilateral suspensions. These concern, of course, not only foodism - tourism but also all other sectors. In many of these cases, even the insured person’s AMKA is not mentioned. Priority has already been given to complete the computer checks to cross these unidentified insured persons as soon as possible. With regard to the year 2021, the procedures of the Secretariat-General have already been initiated in order to ensure that the contractor of the information system ‘ERGANIS’ completes the production of the corresponding records as soon as possible for sending the detailed periodic statements to the e-ECA. On this point, however, I would like to be categorical from now on. Obviously, the delay in the submission of detailed periodic statements does not in any event entail a loss of workers' rights. For this purpose, all regional coordination and support services of e-ECA have been instructed not to reject requests for cash benefits submitted by workers on the grounds of invaluable submission of detailed periodic declarations, but requests to remain in the competent authorities until the submission of the declarations has been completed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] My time's up. For your second question, which concerns the OAED and the seasonal unemployment benefit, I will respond to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, unfortunately the tide of bureaucracy, which you at the ministry or even EFKA have still predicted to exist in these cases, will force the workers to have black holidays. Do you understand that? It's proud. When they are deprived of the basic allowance and cannot receive this allowance, we are again involved in such a turbulence regardless of any outstanding matters. The ones who are tied up, why shouldn't they get over it immediately? Why can't this whole problem get over it? Why should there be all this pilgrimage and these stumbling blocks? They're going to make black holidays for employees in food tourism, and you know it, Minister. You've seen the workers' protests. They're justifiable. There are no patterns of speech to come in with a parliamentary intervention with a timely question. It is major issues and I repeat that they will make black celebrations. I am saying this because the failure to appear in the ERGAN system of these labels for the year 2020-2021 has caused problems and beyond all others have no possibility of getting basic cover, such as sickness benefits and everything else. There is also a great deal of problem with applications for retirement. Scouts of this kind, which deal with them daily and do not find a response. We, unfortunately, insist on a bureaucratic tide that could well be covered. They are unilateral inhibitors automatically and whatever control comes out, let them retroactively resolve some things. To withdraw. The administration is doing this. So why should we not have this right and that possibility and for workers to be involved in the way they are involved? Young workers now in food - tourism - who must be subsidised for the first time: I told you again about the subsidisation of unemployment, but you have not been prevented from saying something. Apart from the badges, they have some other conditions. It can't be done. You know, in fact, that they cannot afford to have these conditions. In fact, such workers are not excluded from receiving such benefits. There was an amendment last week. You have provided for the reduction of the minimum insurance days to 50 per cent for the grant of the national unemployment benefit. The new grants are not covered by the amendment, they are left out. What about these people? As far as the 'ERGAN' is concerned, we - you know that well, we have tabled reports and questions on several occasions and nothing has happened. I'll tell you the most recent answer you've ever given. It's May 24, 2021, in question about the trademarks of unilateral patients. I will read to you what you said: 'In relation to the specific cases that you mention about workers who cannot receive specific allowances because of their non-implementation of the insurance course, according to information received from the OAED, this has already been settled. The necessary instructions have been notified to the competent services of the Agency in order to enable them to calculate for themselves the days of insurance corresponding to the period of special purpose compensation, following a unilateral declaration. In fact, for this purpose, the corresponding internet interface between the information system ‘ERGAN’ and the integrated IT system of the OAED, using all necessary actions, has been implemented. What's up, Minister? It's been seven months since. In 2021 it's over. We've got a situation. Nothing's happened. So there is one issue. You must take action with a political decision to overcome these objectives that can be overcome, so that workers do not have to make black holidays in 2021 in food - tourism at a very difficult time. I am well aware that you share this difficult situation. But the Ministry has to take a decision. I urge you, Minister, and please make a decision to resolve this. They won't have a Christmas or a New Year's Day. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u181	Good, Mr. Mulkiotis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u182	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, in the context of the government's interventions on the financial support for seasonal workers during the pandemic period, we have made three important initiatives. The first was that the number of insurance days requested for the seasonal staff unemployment allowance was reduced from a hundred to fifty for the year 2020. The second was also extended to 2021 to reduce the days of insurance from a hundred to fifty for the insured of the tourist and food industry. The third point, which you mentioned, with an amendment tabled and voted on a few days ago, extends the favourable regulation which provides for the reduction of the minimum days of insurance to 50 per cent for the granting of the standard unemployment benefit and to other categories of seasonal workers. They are employees in particular in the canning industry, in diagrams and in other professions linked to agriculture and the processing of agricultural products, who were in danger of not filling the required number of days of insurance. The aim of the government, as I have stressed many times in the House, Mr Mulkiotis, and several times in the context of your own questions, is to support workers and the unemployed from the consequences of the pandemic on the economy. This is not just a commitment we have made, but a task we are really serving every day. The vulnerable groups of workers affected by the pandemic have received and will continue to accept for as long as conditions require all the state support we can provide. Do not forget that despite the extremely high ratio of public debt to the Gross Domestic Product, the government has supported businesses and households with more than EUR 40 billion during the pandemic. The most recent macroeconomic evidence shows that management has been successful. The economy is recovering dynamically. Unemployment, which many were afraid of having an explosion after the end of a pandemic, is falling and even declined rapidly, while the labour force is increasing. Our aim is with the targeted and effective use of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the NSRF, as well as the deposits of households that have increased significantly over the past two years to increase productive investment and achieve a high rate of economic growth in the years to come together with further significant reduction in unemployment. Finally, together with the implementation of structural reforms, we can change the entire productive model of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. MEP I' Eastern Attica Mr. Antonis Mylonakis with his document to the President of Parliament, seeks permission from his absence abroad from 26-12-2021 to 2-1-2022. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u184	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before we move on to the agenda for the legislative work, we will have a short break.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Protecting volunteering, strengthening the action of the Civil Society, tax incentives to strengthen the utilization of the Communities. and other provisions.’; The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 December 2021 to discuss the draft law at a plenary sitting on the principle of articles and amendments. The speakers will be registered electronically until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. I do not think there is any objection to the basic procedural proposal. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u186	So the House unanimously agreed. Minister, is there any legislative improvement that you want to present at the beginning now before colleagues begin their speeches?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u187	No, Mr President, we shall then be tabling this report, but not at the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u188	Not now, good. The rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Loverdos, therefore has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u190	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u191	We would like to ask about the procedure. An amendment has been tabled on Friday evening which has not been discussed. We would like to know whether the Minister will accept it and who will support it by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u192	Good. First of all, this is not about the basic procedure that I asked. This is an incidental matter. Minister, would you like to answer Mr Spirtzi's question now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u193	As far as I am concerned, Mr President, three amendments have been tabled. The two are on the side of the government, which we are also accepting from one side of the SYRIZA, which is in due course, costly, and not accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office, thus rejecting them and from the Constitution. It is, however, being held to consider it in its essence. I'll see her, that is, and she'll be right there. The way he's testified, he doesn't come properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u194	So what Mr Spirjis asked, and I believe that he refers to the transfers of ERC officials - to say the matter by his name - is that you are accepting it. Now, who's gonna support her, we're gonna see it on the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u195	Yeah, she comes from the government. Obviously, we are making it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u196	Good. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u198	Please open the electronic record system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my introduction, I would like to express my warmest congratulations to the Change Movement for the election of a new President. It is very good for the political system that democratic processes and parties, which are part of our political system, go ahead and elect their leaders freely and democratically. Today, we come here to discuss a very important bill. In my opinion it is one of the most important bills that have recently come to Parliament to discuss. And I am pleased that, during the work of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Public Administration and Justice, it has also been made clear by the suggestions made by the rapporteurs and the special speakers, but also by all those who participated, that it is a bill in which the main lines exist a broader consensus. There is a lot of provisions and the philosophy of the bill is in the right direction. I admit that. I understand we can't agree on everything. In more specific regulations and regulations there are disagreements, and that is very legitimate. I will try to explain why, in our view, this is true. The second is that I wish to express my regret that this bill, which, as I said, is very important, did not have the response from Members of Parliament. I've been waiting for more involvement. I am pleased to see several Members here today, but I would like him to have even greater involvement, because it is much more important than other bills that have been made a lot of talk about. Perhaps it is not quite a popular subject that we are called upon to discuss. He won't make headline hits. We have to start by agreeing on certain things. The first thing we have to agree on is that civil society organisations play a very important role in the development of our society. It is very good that there are such organisations, which offer too many things that the state cannot offer to our society. We as a New Democracy - but I also think all reasonable people - want these organisations to be strengthened. We want more citizens to participate in the public and help home and society. We want more volunteers to come and offer their services for the benefit of our fellow citizens. This can be done and it has to be done. This is also the aim of the bill brought by the Ministry of Interior to debate and vote today by the House. The second point to which we have to agree is that while it is so important and great that the role of civil society organisations is largely degraded in the consciousness of our society, mainly because there have been - not most - few but important cases, which have shown that some have not entered the process of organising such a group, such a union, a non-profit organisation, in this direction for the good of society, but for the good of their pockets. There is a widespread perception of many of our fellow citizens, not unfairly, that some seek to make money from the state, even to get rich through the creation of such an organization. That had to stop. It had to change. This is the purpose for which, in particular, this bill comes into one class, and this large number of unions and non-profit organizations appearing as non-profit-making, but in practice they are completely profitable. It is also intended to introduce this order, which we are all pursuing, and with which we have all agreed during the work of the committee. You're going to tell me: This bill is the best bill possible? Oh, no. There is no perfect bill, there is what can be done under the present circumstances. I understood and felt the objections of the anti-population rapporteurs, who consider that there should be only one record, that there should not be two, which are recommended in the new bill. The new bill introduces two registries: a general register in which everyone who wants to participate in this joint work is enrolled and there is a second special register, for which stricter conditions are provided for in the bill. That's what I think is the best. There had to be, because when you ask for more funding, you have to have stricter control. It's common sense. Of course, they have overwhelmed my e-mail, as they have flooded all of us's e-mails, reactions from many organisations that disagree with this strictness - as they see it - of the transparency and accountability procedures provided for in the bill. I understand that some people did not exactly understand the contents of the bill. If they'd figured it out, they might not have reacted that much. I understand, too, that some people are untiring. Some people were happy with the former regime and they don't want anything to change. It is understandable, but it has also had to change for the good of organisations themselves and for the good of civil society, which, as we have said, is a common prerequisite for all of us, for the protection and transparency of procedures and the protection of public money. This is the direction behind the bill and the Ministry of Interior is working in this direction and will continue to work. During the work of the committee, it has also been clear from the speech by the Minister responsible that it would be our intention not to have the nine other registers in which the various organizations which are subsidised by the State are recorded. But that has so far not been possible because it has been a very difficult process. But that's the purpose. Since there are the two registers currently set up, the general and the special, we will at some point, in the near future, be able to merge the other registers, which are located in each Ministry, the nine different registers. But what needs to be done from the outset is that the state - and in this particular case the government and the Ministry of Interior - has an obligation to protect the transparency and accountability of these organisations, which are calling for State subsidies and tax exemptions. I repeat it once again, because perhaps some people have not understood it. We are clearly talking about urban unions and organisations that seek to protect the State through these two procedures, state subsidies and tax exemptions. We're not talking about other organizations. In the context of the Civil Code, anyone who wants a union for a particular public purpose can do so freely and can finance it either from his pocket or from the membership of the club or from a number of donors who do not seek tax exemptions. In such cases, there is no involvement of the State, either in the General Register or in the Special Register. We are only talking about those who seek state subsidies. As far as those who are registered in the general register, in which they are always registered, the conditions are too limited. Personally - I told the Minister - I would like them a little more stringent. You take up to EUR 50,000 a year on minimum conditions, which I do not understand why they have caused some reactions. This is a paradoxical very small, insignificant and a process which is provided for in common sense, not even by legislation. As far as the register is concerned, the conditions for registration are indeed stricter. You need to have three years of preparation, you need to pay a bigger paradox - just 200 euros - and you also need to have accountability for your finances through a sworn accountant. Isn't it self-evident that when you ask for a grant, a grant of more than EUR 50 000, you have to wait for that kind of response? It makes perfect sense. I don't understand the reactions that have arisen. The funding that may be given to the organisations listed in the general register may be very large. There are also organisations that offer enormous social and charitable work, such as - their representatives were present at the hearing of the bodies in the committee - the 'Smile of the Child', the 'Bodosaki' Foundation and many other institutions and organisations which, in fact, have proved to be of great benefit. Now, from there on, if anyone else wants to enter this special register, let them have a transparency in their finances and, of course, in accordance with the procedures provided for by each Ministry, because the grants will continue to be given by each of the Ministry of Culture otherwise, by the Ministry of Culture others, by the Ministry of Labour, then they will also have the opportunity to cover the high level of finance they seek. I would like at this point to refer to the question of volunteering. In Greece, it is paradoxical: while on the one hand we have many civil society organisations as we say, we have a very low percentage of volunteers, even though many opportunities have recently emerged from increasing volunteering, and this is in the interest of society. In particular, with regard to fire-fighting and natural disasters that are a sector very important for our country's protection, people really wanting to help voluntarily have appeared. However, the percentage is low. It's 5%, I think. It is one of the lowest, if not the lowest in Europe. Why is that? The poor option would say because volunteers do not receive a subsidy, while the other organisations, the so-called NGOs, received a subsidy. I don't want to be a bad option. There is one more fundamental reason, which I think the JRC's rapporteur has expressed and supported. This is why we have reached the point in Greece under the influence of left ideology that we have come to believe that everything needs to be awaited by the state. There is no need for volunteering or organisations or anything. The State is obliged to offer these services. Mr. Zachariadis is picking up his head. He doesn't like what I'm saying. It's okay. Accepted, Mr. Zachariadis. You are loved anyway, whether you agree or disagree with me. That's why. The reason is that we want the state to be everywhere, the state to be ever present. We do not agree with that concept. We seek and seek to enable voluntary contributions to be large and important. And if some, fortunately, don't expect that because they're going to be forest firemen, they're also going to be in public tomorrow. They do it to protect their homeland, to protect their village, their city. They don't do it to hire the public. This is another culture that we cannot agree to. He may find you, my dear Mr. Zachariadis, but he does not agree to us. And at this point I would like to stress that the obligation to announce volunteers at the "ERGAN" is a very important measure proposed by this bill, because this makes the day clear from the wheat, who is truly a worker and who is not, who has a black job and who is not. This is the positive aspect of this bill, where there have of course been reactions, not for reasons of public interest, but rather why some are unleashing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These are very simple procedures introduced by this bill, in a number of provisions that are in the right direction. Because I always respect time, Mr President, I would not like to go into more detail. The Minister and our parliamentary representative, and I see, will also speak, and a number of fellow Members, to develop this issue of a very important bill, which comes here in the House and should - in my opinion - be filled with the Chamber of Parliament by MPs who feel the need to have such organisations and intense volunteering, strong volunteering for the benefit of our country and society, without everyone waiting for what the state will do for them. As John Fitzgerald Kennedy said: "Do not ask what your state is doing for you, but ask what you are doing for the state." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u200	I would very much ask that the Step, which is called by the general rapporteur of SYRIZA, be cleared by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know these days in the committee debate, but today in plenary I thought that there are indeed areas in policy that are basically national figures. Questions to which the parties have not only the opportunity to agree, but it is necessary to draw up long-term national strategies. Such a national issue is also an attempt to legislate and regulate the area of voluntary and public-private organisations. There is no doubt that the voluntary organisations in our country have a long history. Who can, after all, deny periods such as the prolonged economic and social crisis of the memoranda, the migratory crisis, from Brain Drain to the pandemic crisis, that volunteering was indeed a lever and a welding substance for social cohesion? Unfortunately, not only have voluntary organisations received the attention they deserve, but many times, Mr Vorides, for micro-political reasons and have been slandered and deceived. Who can forget New Democracy's attitude to defamation of large volunteer organisations, which played a key role in demolishing the huge refugee humanitarian crisis in 2015? How can the timeless government responsibilities that have allowed large organisations to collapse on a night with unprecedented economic scandals be eradicated from collective memory? In this light, too, and with these considerations, this draft law could provide an integrated and real basis for a national civil society policy, in our view, it should achieve three very simple but fundamental objectives. Firstly, to protect civil society organisations from micropolitics. Secondly, it should be able to strengthen their selfishness and contribution to social progress. And, thirdly and more importantly, to establish an adequate and coherent legislative framework for organising, operating and efficient interconnecting with the state. And on this point, Minister, Mr Voridis, you have come to the first fundamental contradiction in relation to the core, in relation to the spirit, in terms of targeting, the pursuit of your legislative initiative. While you described the bill as a part of the resetting field of civil society, while stressing that it is finally entering order at the same time during the debate in the committees you admitted before all the rapporteurs and Members that this bill is only the beginning and that additional legislative interventions will be needed. Who will they be? You only keep this for yourself with future ministerial decisions that will naturally escape the consultation of public control, accountability and legislative procedure. Undeniable witness to this claim, the last chapter articles where you essentially grant yourself the power to regulate the main issues of the draft law, namely the regulation of the details of the databases of voluntary organisations, the level of the offense, the way in which volunteers are recorded and the abolition of registers. This is not the first time that this reformist castle has been exhausted in a confessed impeccable, I would say, scene presence in the House. It is, however, thought that what is being proposed in practice is being monitored. What is the footprint of the teleworking bill? What's the print of the bill on lobbying? What is the footprint of the internal audit bill? You know this condition in political marginality is also called legislative populism. So on the substance of the bill for this very reason, the main reason is that it discusses in an indirect, partial or no way the real issues facing voluntary organisations. It does not go beyond the rationalisation and effective interconnection of the multiple registries that are currently maintained in the relevant ministries. So he doesn't answer what? At the constant request of civil society organisations to simplify procedures and reduce bureaucracy. Watch out. It is characteristic that two new registries are created which are added to nine already maintained in different Ministries plus those of the regions and municipalities and that what is to be done is not clear. What's going to happen, Mr. Voridis? Will they connect? Will they be consolidated with what already exists? Will the existing ones be abolished? Instead of ensuring the interoperability and interconnection of the bases, what will voluntary organisations do? They will still need to re-entrust documents and re-entry them on platforms. Where is this famous digital transformation of the New Democracy now when the Ministry of Digital Policy is not involved in the issue of the interconnection of registries and the interoperability of bases? It is a top issue - and we have told the committees - that the legislator has not taken into account the nature of the main body of the organisations currently active in the country. The bill was formulated on substance with larger organisations in mind. In Greece, however, the vast majority of active voluntary organisations are small and medium-sized with a small number of workers. This is, after all, the trend that exists worldwide, smaller and flexible forms of organisations. We therefore end up with a bill which, instead of being substantial and developmental, becomes management and controllative in relation to the field in which it is attempting to regulate. The economic and bureaucratic conditions it sets out will function relatively in the birth of new organisations and in the development of smaller ones with very likely ending up with the decline in the field of voluntary organisations. Instead of showing the Civil Society, instead of developing effective partnerships and partnerships with the state, what does it show? Mostly the obligations of civil society bodies. And hegemony of the bill is that it is basically dealing with voluntary organisations on market terms as if they were businesses. If you are, in other words, small and medium-sized voluntary organisations, or you get an economic and administrative structure of greater size so that you can enter the special register and thus gain access to co-financing and access to tax relief, otherwise you stay out, we do not care if you disappear or find a way to merge. In other words, this is the recipe that New Democracy applies to Greek small and medium-sized entrepreneurship! In other words, and to be clear, if the objective, Mr Vorides, is to develop the scope of volunteering and encouraging participation, then this cannot be achieved by administrative, accounting, economic and bureaucratic burdens, which in essence serve as an impediment. You can't want to adjust and develop such a field, at the same time shrinking it. Regarding, now, with Part II of the bill and other provisions, most of the articles regulate technical issues and move, as we have said, in the right direction. However, we have pointed out to you in the Committees and a number of points which raise concerns. Mr Voridis, it was not enough to answer the question you gave us on Article 47 and the amendment of the Code of Municipalities and Communities in relation to the strong reactions that he has caused to the Municipality of Aristotle in the Prefecture of Halkidiki. It's just things. The decision of the Council of State is clear, is final and the central administration must comply without revolt and without manoeuvring. Article 50 should list, in detail, the cases of regulatory decisions which will be put forward to economic committees by municipal councils rather than just a vague reference, as this vagueness can ultimately create more problems in the functioning of the municipalities. Finally, in relation to Article 52, because we believe that the establishment of the regional representative of the citizen and of the company is important for the relationship between citizens and self-government, it would be good - we have pointed it out - to speed up, as a matter of priority, the election of citizens in the regions and then to regulate any individual issues. As far as the provisions relating to amendments to the Code of Nationality are concerned, we consider that, despite the fact that they are trying to rationalise some points of the procedure, however, there is still much room for subjectivity in the application of the law in relation to the interview and the possibility of committees to control criteria and conditions of granting. Finally, with regard to the amendment you mentioned by the colleague of the Officerial Response, Mr Vardakis, please - and this was very positive - we call on you to consider it in substance - we call on you to accept it, as this is a measure proportionate to the murderous earthquake of 27 September in Heraklion, Crete, which has shocked the entire local society. I think it is an amendment that responds to a real need. On this point, Minister, I would like to pay particular attention to the amendment you have tabled, as you said, from the Ministry of Civil Protection. You know, its spirit and content are at a collision orbit with the principles of democracy and the rule of law, national security and transparency. And you know what else? It is a great irony to teach us lessons about good legislation, praising the functioning of the state of staff, when in a bill on volunteerism, you bring "heavy" provisions concerning the National Information Service and not just. All this at midnight Friday, to be discussed today, without any previous debate. You are thus withdrawing from the parties and Parliament, from the Greek society and from the workers, the opportunity for any dialogue. With this amendment - scandalo, between other anti-democratic provisions, in essence, it is planned to move hundreds, non-professional, officials of the National Agency to various departments of the Greek Police. It is essentially the completion of a strategic plan for the complete control of the state and the National Agency, with exceptional recruitment, by way of the AACC, following the liquidation. It is the overthrow of all welfare, established by previous PASOK and SYRIZA governments, in relation to the way in which new staff, the most neuro-algal agency, are assessed for national security issues. It is, finally, the proof of the state-lappy, when even the formal qualifications, the standard criteria, for the position of the commander of the NRA, in order to select his chosen Mr. Mitsotakis. The democratic world should not forget how many years it took to heal the wounds and divisions of the Greek people from the "false", the monitoring and use of the Information and Police Service for political purposes. Our vision should be the development of democratic European Greece in 2021 and not the return to logic in 1961. Finally, in the same amendment, with Article 8, the intention of the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection for absolute control and restriction of the trade union freedoms of the Greek police is shown. Instead of dealing primarily with the big issues of police officers, such as the recognition of the risk of their work, the improvement of education, logistics and finally the staffing of police services, the Minister intervenes in a raw and unambiguous manner in the internal trade unions, abolishing the simple proportionality in the process of raising trade unions. This is a profound reduction in the trade union freedoms of police officers, to which most of the country's police associations are opposed, since they consider this provision to be insulting. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today does not introduce anything new. It opens up a debate which leaves it somewhere in the middle and runs into an intent, unclear and void, and does not, in essence, promote the development of volunteering. At the same time - as we pointed it out to the committees - the addition of the other provisions, but also of the amendments, completely derails the real debate, turning your own legislative initiative into a Trojan Horse in the service of other political purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u202	Close the electronic recording system. The reason is now the special speaker from the Change Movement Mr. Kamine Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. With today's bill, we have another sign of bad legislation. Half of the bill we saw in consultation, the other half saw it after it was filed in the House. The Government brings in provisions relating to local government and the Code of citizenship and has not preceded any consultation with the stakeholders. Let us begin with the provisions of the draft we have seen in the consultation. The role of non-governmental organisations in Greece has been primarily linked to the State's inability to provide the respective services offered by these organisations and the fact that the government seems to understand this is something positive. In the negative, we have to blame for the fact that the draft law seems primarily to satisfy requests from large, mainly large organisations and public-private institutions. With regard to tax exemptions, for example, for one to have tax exemptions, one must have income and real estate. This is not the custom of the non-governmental organizations in Greece at all. At the same time, we heard at the hearing by bodies that the international trend is to strengthen smaller schemes, which have better contact with the field, while in Great Britain and the United States the backbone of organisations consists of those that a small and medium-sized organisation would call. The common place in the audience was that the ecosystem of organisations in Greece has not been studied. In support of this, I should like to say here that large absentees from the draft law are municipalities, when it is known that municipalities, primary self-government traditionally have a great deal of experience in managing organisations, especially locals. The Civil Society is organized in various directions and objects. In order to meet all the needs of the individual Ministries, very many different registries have been established, where the conditions for registration and the rights resulting from it vary and often overlap. We see in the bill two new registries being created without a prior connection with the existing ones and without expecting it to be in the immediate visible future. The authorizing provisions of Articles 25, 26 and 27 do not provide for any timetable nor for the functioning of the new registers. The most correct thing, of course, would be that the existing registers should be transferred as soon as the new register is in operation and then contact the representatives of the organisations to complete the documents required to complete the registration. In order to ensure that the new register starts to function as soon as the existing register is abolished, otherwise we will have a register which will, in turn, contribute to the phenomena of division. The draft law does not remove a clear scope for civil society cooperation with the State, which we expected, but above all emphasises the obligations and procedural issues of organisations, for example, in paragraph 2 of Article 11 on the obligation for organisations to submit to the new address created by the funding body's elements and the budget and balance sheet for each financed programme. But this is already done by the organisations to the funding body, while non-governmental organisations receiving more than EUR 30 000 annually have an obligation to report this information to the "GENERAL". A further obligation is created here for NGOs, while provision could be made for government bodies financing organisations to publish every beginning of the year or at the end of each year a list of these organisations. For Article 5, which concerns the setting-up and responsibilities of the new management of the organisations and utilities you set up, a number of questions are raised, in particular with regard to adequate staff and responsibilities. In Article 7, the restriction introduced into an organisation cannot be entered in more than four subgroups is meaningless. What would make sense here is two things: first of all, the explicit indication that integration into a subgroup should be done in accordance with the objectives of the statute. Secondly, given that there is provision for setting up the organisations three years ago as a prerequisite for entry in the register, so also for access to financing, there should be a special mention that the three-year period should apply for all the purposes of the statutes. A significant shortage is that Article 10 does not provide for criteria for the evaluation of civil society organisations. I am referring mainly to organisations that will receive state funding, to state funding of any amount, as it says. With regard to Article 8 and the own-initiative search for the penal register for members of the board of directors of non-governmental organisations, there is a large list of offences and the condemnation of one of them is a pretext for one to become a member of the board of directors of a non-governmental organisation. Not all offences have the same decency, and in any case we ignore that volunteering is very often a very important channel of normal social reintegration for many deportees. Of course, it is well known that this government's penitentiary policy does not invest in normal reintegration. But I would ask you, Minister, to look again at the offences you are considering and to keep what is of a financial nature first. As far as the provisions on citizenship are concerned, it is well known that you have been designated for the first time and, indeed, retroactive presumptions of the economic and social integration of foreign nationals seeking Greek citizenship. On the substance of the matter, you have reinstated the same presumptions and the stricter ones which have been withdrawn from your predecessor by way of major reactions in the vote on Law 4735. This decision was a follow-up to previous decisions by the government, which have moved in a clear conservative direction and are aimed at the substantial exclusion of a large number of foreigners who have lived legally in our country for many years. You are weakening the process of naturalisation in relation to the determination of effective integration and strengthening the logic of the written examinations. At the same time, they remain, maintain the strict income criteria as a standard condition, and now allow them to be challenged in the oral interview, which will only be conducted in the event of doubts, which can strengthen the credibility of the procedure. On the matter of the amendment concerning the National Information Service. The second Information Collection and Analysis Department was established under the a.d. 962020. With this amendment, what are you doing? You take all the staff of this department, as well as the staff working in the regional support units and transfer them, by way of derogation from any general or special provision, to the central or regional departments of the Hellenic Police, especially to those relating to public and state security. This is a pure case of expulsion of the non-likes in the leadership of the NDP, since the service as an organic unit remains, with the result that the service remains as an empty shell now, and the employees are not going to be transferred. I must admit that I have never seen this before in Greek public administration. I've never seen this thing, stay a service as an empty shell, and all that's there to go. And we're talking about a lot of people. Ninety shall be considered to be at least the operational staff who are practically incapable of a total of approximately four hundred. In other words, about 25% of the NSA's operational staff leave the NSA from one day to another. Isn't that serious about the credibility, about the effectiveness of the National Intelligence Service? Why does the Greek Police itself not seek through the extradition of a new presidential decree to change its organisational structure and create an address with the object of the address transferred by the NSA and to serve with its own staff, upon notice, the new positions that will arise? It is enough to see the explanatory statement - which is not a explanatory statement - accompanying this article 10 of the amendment in order to convince that the explanations that the Ministry is trying to give are absolutely pretextful. The government here follows the strategy of the small and closed National Intelligence Service. Little because an amendment - in addition to an unrelated bill, as now - had been preceded by the transfer of the Electronic Information Directorate to the Ministry of National Defence. Enclosed because in the same amendment the National Intelligence Service was set up, the Centre for Technological Support for Development and Innovation with opaque activity and funding from a special account for technological development and technology. I have brought this to the public with the timely question I tabled on 14 November 2021, but we have not yet received a reply. Like then, the Change Movement will now vote against this amendment, not only because of its drunkenness by the Ministry of Citizen Protection, but also because of the clear direction - mainly for this reason - to fully monitor the service, and further intensify a regime of partisanism, intimidation and opacity. All this is happening while tomorrow there is an election of the workers' association in the EPP, and as I said - and I want to insist on it - some ninety employees are actually switching to a total of about four hundred. The weakening that will bring to the NSA, it can be imagined by anyone. In my opinion, it will be a long time before these people have replaced the void they leave, many of which have considerable experience and training. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u204	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. The current draft law on the so-called 'protection of volunteering' confirms in a most revealing way the systematic distortion of the concept of "protection of volunteering" which is being attempted in the context of the policy implemented. It is volunteering that relieves the urban state of the obligation to provide social services, which is pushed to meet similar needs with unpaid work - i.e. free work - by cultivating subjection in the name of aid to the unemployed and impoverished. Unpaid work as a necessary competition treaty - hence the involvement of non-governmental organisations in GDP - is directly admitted by the government. In fact, within the draft law, the definition of "the voluntary commitment of the volunteer to provide work and services for the benefit of the social group without pay or other material compensation", i.e. to catch you in the price and make you feel even remorse if you dare to claim a job with wages and rights. Unpaid work, of course, is a prisoner. There are her pastels. Since the volunteer does not ask for remuneration, what will the collective labour agreements, labour and insurance rights and claims to guarantee them? In addition to all others, it aims at ideological manipulation, since the urban version of volunteering attempts to shift the solutions to problems, which your own policy - of all governments - causes victims themselves. What victims? The permanent mortgage: the working class, the poor farm, the self-employed freelance professionals, the whole of the populace. This must have in mind all the workers, especially the young people from these layers, who are the victims of this trap of volunteering. In this insidious way the European Union and the governments are trying to pass through the window the idea of volunteering, in fact seeking to turn parts of the people against other parts of it that refuse to submit to this dangerous logic. This forward-looking debate on the transparency of non-governmental organisations, now renamed to Civil Society organisations, should not be about workers. This conversation is disorientative. These organisations are basically the births and tools of the governments of the European Union and the business groups. They are founded, they are financed, and they are also financed by their own states. How beneficial is the action of an institution of governments and of the European Union, however, that breaks people's rights, burdens on workers, legislation on the competitiveness and profitability of businesses and not on the people's needs? Can voluntary participation in the fight against fires, floods and earthquakes, for example, replace or justify the major shortages in media and staff, which are a conscious choice of all governments in the context of cuts in funds relating to people's needs? Can the organisation of assistance to the affected be left to volunteers and non-governmental organisations with the state mechanism simply to a role as coordinator or observer? This volunteering has nothing to do with the real solidarity that is being developed between workers, the unemployed, their families in the struggle to satisfy their modern needs and the human solidarity they have displayed and shown unions, trade unions, trade unions, ordinary people, either individually or collectively, in affected areas of the country by earthquakes, fires, floods, to the unemployed, impoverished, to their colleagues, trade unions, unions and unions. Your volunteering despairs and "oils" your class state from its absence in providing social services, inducing unpaid work, especially young people. It is your volunteering that hides black working relationships, promotes the reduced demands of workers and leads to insecurity and recycling unemployment. The debate on the bill so far shows and verifys what the JRC has done. It says that between the New Democracy and SYRIZA there is more that unite them than those that separate them. The New Democracy and SYRIZA and the other parties may be fighting for the role of non-governmental organisations, whether or not they should have strict criteria for their operation, what should or should not be in the register, and so on, but you are all actually deposing such mechanisms that blossom every walnut, and you also recognise the European Union's institutional framework for enforcing them and substituting the state in the management of social issues. It is characteristic that from your common assumption that the state has a follow-up, we reach the common assumption of the rapporteurs and the majority and minority, except for the JRC, that it is a huge and decisive role for civil society organisations, in the functioning of our society and our country, not only in Greece but worldwide. If we combine this with your common view and understanding, regardless of whether any parties are voting for or voting against in principle, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy Committee said in the debate, saying, for example, that 'we cannot expect all of them from the state' or SYRIZA's rapporteur that 'employment on the substance was the lever but also the contributor to social cohesion', which is why he also calls for national policy, whereas Mera25 and Hellenic Solutions also exposing the supposed social role of non-governmental organisations, this reveals their agreement at the core of the bill on the real pursuits of the bourgeoisie and state in terms of promoting the development of civil society, not only now, many years ago, many decades ago. Of course, this is not a Greek originality. It has been a central direction of the European Union since the 1990s, as promoted in other countries such as the United States of America, England and elsewhere. After all, the perpetrance of such organisations in previous years, as set out in the explanatory statement, demonstrates that they have been exploited by all the governments so far in the following directions: Firstly, the substitution of the shortages from the absence of state intervention to deal with the acute problems, without of course being able to cope with them, even if they arise from sincere objectives, which we recall to be more like the treatment of aspirin cancer. In cultivation, secondly, of the perception that this is normal to happen, because the state cannot do it all, as well as as as a field of evacuation of fair indignation and the supply of a world to the grim situation that has been created for the majority of society. Thirdly, the creation of a level of profitability for various representatives of the capital that, through the establishment of such organisations and all kinds of institutions, enjoy full state funding, tax reliefs, even the exploitation of various sectors, as you promote in the draft law in Article 37 with the six areas of action that should be in state responsibility - we say health, welfare, education, culture and sport - to protect the most vulnerable parts of society, third-age age, victims of abuse, migrants, refugees and so on. Fifthly, they are at the same time making use of the donor cloak and benefactor, in order to hide the heavy responsibilities of the urban order of capitalism for the continued deterioration of the lives of the workers, the people's layers, the youth, that is to say, a two-tier. Under the proclamative objectives for the control, organisation and transparency of the totality of these organisations with the draft law, there are other basic pursuits, since you have, of course, given first forgiveness of what has been done to date. It broadens the financial support of civil society organisations from 20%, which was 40%. It introduces the process of self-control of these organisations with the right of such an organisation, a non-governmental organisation, even to appoint the accountant as is the case in anonymous companies. It aims at tax evasions, exemptions from business groups, all kinds of obsolete fundings which are supposed to be transparent and if adopted will always be subject to the various scandals to strengthen the strong interests or for other purposes. Secondly, the further strengthening of large organisations, non-governmental organisations, that is, of all kinds, at the expense of the smaller ones. You have said so too, Mr Minister, 'We are interested in the large organizations'. And this is to control and plunge even greater scope from these sectors by forming the special register of organisations and the conditions laid down for State and private funding. After all, the philosophy of the governments of the European Union is that, in order to provide effective solutions, there must be convergence in a triangle of state-private and non-governmental organisations. Everyone has to put his own liquor on this case. Thirdly, the formulation of standard rules for the registration of volunteers in "ERGANI", which in fact still cover more effectively the dependent work provided to various such organisations without any insurance and labour rights of volunteers. Will those who will be recorded in the 'ERGAN', Minister, be presented as workers or as unemployed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u206	As volunteers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u207	As volunteers, i.e. neither workers nor unemployed. Do we repeat the question: Will they be recorded as unemployed? Because if they are not recorded as unemployed, it is another way of showing a reduced rate of unemployed. Fourthly, the system of recording and checking personal data. It is a basic pursuit of thousands of people participating in it through the information collected in the registers. The possibility of automatically extracting from the state of the criminal record. Fifthly, the strengthening of the direction finally. The encouragement to participate in such organisations and not in the organisations of the working people's movement, in unions and associations, which demand and claim and organize the struggle of the people. It is characteristic that for the provision of services to voluntary non-paid employment providers, for example, lawyers should be exempted from the obligation to issue a pre-paid pre-paid note, which, of course, does not apply in cases of progressive lawyers who want to offer their services to the fair fight of unions against redundancies and persecution of workers. So civil society finds strong supporters both in social democracy and in so-called left-wing, centre-left, in neoliberals. Is this a new discovery, which describes a different path of social and political intervention, or is it a variation of theories and a chew of anachronistic ideologies of the sovereign civil power? First of all, let us say that the concept of a citizen as a member of society is not uniform and cannot therefore be a coherent link and a link between the social organisation. But even if the concept of citizens is linked exclusively to the aristotle concept of participation and participation in the public, it is still not uniform as the commons are not the same for everyone, and there are neither equal opportunities for participation nor similar opportunities for intervention. Citizens, for example, are viewed as the industrialist, the worker, the small- and medium-sized farmer, the self-employed professional and the big trader. But how much can they get together, work together in the Civil Society, in your civil society, when their interests are contrasting and their objectives are completely different? So civil society is nothing but an intelligence that returns from another way to the old theory of the abolition of classes, which is particularly worthless today and cannot be persuaded. There can be no coexistence at the same time between the employees of the bitter.com and the employer who fired them in seconds and in the hardest and coldest way, neither the employees at the Piraeus port with the "COSCO" nor the e-food workers with their bosses, who each day earn billions of euros. We did not see any of these organisations showing practical solidarity in the fight against these workers, when the subject of non-governmental organisations being involved is solidarity. Or, for example, we did not see them say something, in fact, in electricity, in fuel, in the wide-ranging consumption of poor people. For all these reasons, therefore, the JRC is voting against in principle. We as a party, as a JRC, in any case have a duty towards the working class and poor people's strata to reveal your anti-grass strategy, which at the centre has the profitability of business groups and not the popular needs. The JRC's call for coexistence to the oppressed people's strata is not only limited to the need to prevent the worst as a result of the barbarism of the system you serve, the capitalist 'green' growth and all that you tell us against the peoples and the environment, but to reclaim losses, aggressively provoking the modern folk needs, the possibilities that are objectively there - because there is wealth produced by those who have put them into poverty and impoverishment - not only against every urban government, but against the state itself that has continued to impose anti-grassroots policy, not to return to where we were before the crisis and the memorials, but to organise the counter-attack that will push things ahead for the change of correlations with labour power. To conclude, let me speak about the amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection of a general number 1170 and specialist 113 on the arrangements for the election of organs and trade unions of the Greek Police. You're bringing her back. It's unacceptable, it's precipitated, it's reactive. We ask you to withdraw it here and now. It repeals the simple analogue and the extraordinarial lists in police union and establishes the single ballot and the majority system. In this way, it seeks to reduce every voice of resistance to government unionism. The only ones who have to talk about trade unions in their industry, in their movement, are the working police officers and no one else. Again, this reactionary legislative project will make it a rag for workers themselves. So take it back here and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u208	The special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas is called in Stepa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. He is not here the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who said it is a pity that the House should be empty when such important bills like today are coming. Well, this is where health bills, economy, education have been passed, and, unfortunately, the House was empty. Now for the NGOs, would it be full? Everything from the state, does it say, expect it? But the state doesn't do anything. Thirty-seven independent authorities have that state. The independent authorities are doing the work of the state, substituting the state. NGOs to do the work of the state. Thirty-seven independent authorities, which enrich billions of euros annually in our budget to do the work of the state. All this is happening in a Greek society, Minister, which is severely affected by high unemployment, poverty, pandemic, and you are now coming to share money with voluntary organisations and in this regard with NGOs. And a sample of something that has been stinking all this time, in recent years, is that you've changed them and name, don't now have this "brand" - how young people are saying today - which is tough and the other "NGO" is listening and creeping, because some have taken care of the "NGO" to listen to it and change the way. Remula, shorts, biscuits, and so forth. Be careful, however, we will not make the challenge that the government is trying to do today, that is, we will not put all the voluntary organisations and civil society organisations - new ones now - in the same cauldron. We have also said to the committee that today: there are some, four, five, ten - I do not know how many they are - which can offer a project to that extent. So far, though, because most of them operate - you know - as a multi-ethnic business with strategic planning, doing business, doing business, offering good services to Greek citizens, NGOs with many volunteers - in and out of import - who grow everywhere, flooded our country, coming from abroad. They appeared as humanists, on the occasion, of course, of illegal immigration. And all these organisations have said since the first day, first of all, not to take care of them, but to close them. Close them, check them and close them! It's over four hundred. We have requested it in writing, we have tabled questions, we have been answered by the relevant ministries that they are so many and that they cannot control them. Now let's take care of them, give them money! Minister, do you want to fund these organizations? You know, we say it from the first moment that the state has to control the NGOs, first locate them, record them, know who they are, who they are, who they are, who they have the right to act and then enter any register you want. What are you doing here with this bill? You wide open the door to state subsidies to organisations and NGOs that the state does not know and fail to know who they are. That's what you're doing. The case of NGO funding has been transformed, Minister, into a real lasting scandal. You should keep in mind - you know, you are neither young nor inexperienced, barbecue smoked - that some NGOs are neither charitable nor beneficial. Just some people - you know - wear a cloak like that, with the goal, of course, the money, the armour. And you are now setting up two registers, on the basis of which these organisations will be financed. According to Article 10, the Civil Society Organisations can take up to EUR 50,000. Now is the time when the pools come home, PPC comes in, the poor man opens, sees that from where he paid 100 euros, now 350 euros, he has a heart attack. There comes the gas where he paid 90 euros, he sees 270 euros. Second stroke. And we'll share state subsidies here. The state, obviously, has money. There is provision for uncontrolled funding with money from the Greek people. An NGO active in the part of illegal immigration - you know - or RES - new fruit this - can be in four subgroups, one, two, three, four and take huge amounts. And even for those registries you bring, it's not planned how they'll work and you want us to vote for this thing. You do not know how they will work, although when they will be interconnected - for example - the other nine existing registers. So the situation doesn't change. What else are you doing? You give NGO immunity and privileges. I am going to call it 'NGO' - we are creeping around the word 'NGO' - and I repeat that they are the ones that are plunging, exploiting, taking advantage of human suffering with illegal immigrants and making money on the backs of the Greeks. You are therefore giving immunities and privileges, when the Greek taxpayer - as I described before - pays all and fees and fees and HISPIA. So from the ENPIA from this criminal tax, you're the one who relieves them. Let's go to that part a little bit. Because within Article 20, for exempting from the NGO the NGO, you have others in it. Of course, let's make it clear today. The rest of them were there. You simply add to existing law, n.4223/2013, NGO. In other words, legal persons governed by public law, Mount Athos, etc. And we stress it for Mount Athos. That's the treaty. These people were exempted from HISPIA, it is not today. You're just sticking into the existing law and the NGO. That's all the truth people need to hear to know. It's not about Mount Athos. Don't say tomorrow 'oh, you didn't vote for Mount Athos.' But there are already these privileges and rightly there have been since 2013. It doesn't change anything, that's the law from 2013. Just what is New Democracy doing today? It adds to these benefits and the NGOs. That's what she does. You give the Minister the right to decide without control, without accountability, which bodies will fall under the provisions of this Article. Now we're going to something else. The human resources. Because there are regulations in your bill concerning human resources, I would like to remind you - which I do not think you know - of the huge problem that we are seeing in the municipalities with the staff who do not exist to meet the needs. For example, you know, Minister, that in the school year that has been going on for four months, there are many schools in which there are no cleaners? On the one hand, we do not dilute the classes because of COVID, which should have been diluted for two years, on the other hand, we let schools smell. Of course, we don't have money for that. We have money for the NGOs. Now we're going to something else interesting. We're responding because we're going to vote against the bill. Local government. With Article 47, you are actually allowing mayors to change the seat of their municipality. That really impressed us. In the committee you admitted that this article concerns the Municipality of Aristotle in Halkidiki and another seventeen municipalities. It would really be interesting to hear who the other seventeen municipalities are, because the conversation is all about the Municipality of Aristotle in Halkidiki. Who are the other seventeen municipalities? Let's see, for which municipalities are you taking another photo bill. We said it before yesterday in the last bill we talked about here, that they are not Ministers, here are regular photographers. Clack, photo, click photo on every bill. In Ierissos, let me inform you, Minister, that this article is photographic. To get the seat of the Municipality of Aristotle from where she is, take her elsewhere. Where? In the village of the mayor, who say rumours that he is your child, of the New Democracy, who despite having a decision of the Council of State to return the administrative services of the municipality to Ierissos, the seat of the municipality, he ignored it, wrote it in the most oldest of his shoes, because he obviously knew that the bill is coming. From Ierissos, I would remind you - and you also came out in New Democracy in the last few days, especially the day before we talked about the lignites - the great struggle of the inhabitants began - against chrysanthemums and the incalculable destruction of the natural environment in Halkidiki, where large pieces, very large pieces of an archaic forest, were actually turned into a skull place. Sahara's normal. And instead of rewarding these people, we punish them. You, the economists! So did your Discourt, the Minister of Development, not tell us the day before yesterday about his own bill, with which he actually incorporated the lignite in our country and sows unemployment, sows misery in western Macedonia, Kozani, Ptolemais, Florina? On the one hand, economists, on the other hand, are not economists at all. Let's also go to a nice pepperpot coming out of this bill. With another bill you had previously upgraded the role of the Economic Commission of the municipalities and regions, namely, municipalities-regions-economic committee, to circumvent municipal and regional councils, which are not controlled by the latest electoral process, I mean simply proportional. Because, therefore, many blues - if you like - mayors or just friends who are coming to you mayors, districtlors do not control their municipal councils or control their regional councils, because of the mere analogy, have taken the responsibilities to the Economic Committee, which are completely controlled by the mayors and the regional councils. So the job is done. With Article 50 of the bill, you carry more responsibilities - and others - to the Economic Committee. Let me ask you something. What do we vote for in municipal and regional councils? In this way we are effectively destroying and destroying a cell of democracy. And what are you now doing with this article? You allow the economic committees of the municipality to sign contracts without publication of a tender notice for the reception, identification and hospitality of refugees - as it says - and illegal immigrants. Mercy to them now! It is enough with immigrants, it arrives with the illegals, it arrives with these superpowers, and it arrives with this lashverish. Lots of millions! That is what you say in Article 50, that municipalities are able to disburse hundreds of thousands of euros without publishing a tender notice, so that they - as they say - can take care of refugees and immigrants, because that is your poor thing. What else does the bill have today? Multigraphing. For the changes you make to the process of naturalisation, I would like to make it clear once again that there is no Greek citizenship. There's no Greek. A foreigner cannot acquire a Greek race. Only citizenship can be granted by law. But in order to do so, the conditions and all the criteria laid down in the relevant legislation must be too strict. This whole process, this procedure envisaged, must be absolutely improper, strict and objective. You change every three or a little. Include in this policy of polishing, what Mr Mitsotakis has told us so many times, that his dream is to engrave these people in Greek society? Instead of giving as a society the incentive to turn our Greeks back, to support Greek families, instead of motivating our young people to stay in their place, to apply their knowledge and science to the primary sector, for example, what are we doing? To make Greeks and others here on paper, to engrave them in our country, at the same time as the Greek people are going through so hard. Another smuggling of the New Democracy, and I refer to the amendment by Mr Theodorikos, to the amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection. What you do, you know, is dishonest. What? To bring an amendment with three, four very good provisions in and one or two that are not even seen in front of you. What's the problem here? That we cannot vote for one-one provision, one-one article of each amendment. For example, this amendment has ten, twelve articles in it. It has some articles that are very good and we vote on them because the police are right. The fifty-five thousand uniforms of the Greek Police - expenditure, travel, travel expenses, service, rent, cleansing, special body expenses, everything - these people finally get their money. And of course we are very happy to vote with both hands. But here, what does this article, Article 10? ‘Confidentiality of National Intelligence Office topics’. Configuration of the EU's themes. This is not a regulation of matters. This is a wrist of the NSA. Broom! So there's an address in the NDP dealing with Internet crime, drugs, smuggling, weapons, organised crime, and you're kicking them out, a hundred and ten people. You don't push them into unemployment, but you take them from the NSA and take them to the police. "Get out of here. You don't do us." We don't know about the criteria. We do not know why - the Minister will then come to tell us - how they were chosen. On what criteria? What do these people have? In the NSA, those who offer their services are not just employees to go to an office, to security, to work and seal. They have degrees, they have links with services abroad, they know things, serious and important. We learn, for example, that the director, the old commander in Thessaloniki, take her to the police. These people have quality leaves, excellent employees, because that's how they work and operate, they're controlled. Their quality leaves are excellent. And you're slapping them all together, and you're kicking them out. One hundred and ten people! To make this shop yours too! Because this is the sepsis of the state, to control everything, the RES, the information, the ERT, the PPE, everything. Three next to the Prime Minister and they control everything, the whole system! And the S.H.I.E.L.D. now! We put the man who didn't have a degree, the surname, and now we're checking the NSA. Let's make it ours until we get out of here, let the others come and do it theirs. Bugs, I've had it! What does Mr Theodorikos have to say about this today? Tell us why these hundred ten people, seventy in Athens and the rest in the province, take them, top executives of the NSA again, and take them to Security.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Heta, the watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u211	I shall conclude, Mr President, but I am irritated at what I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u212	Well, that's why I'm protecting you, so the pressure doesn't get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u213	I'm done. I don't have any pressure yet. Give us answers. And it's on the same amendment. On the one hand, the beneficial provisions for the Greek Police, for the uniforms, and on the other hand, you bring the circumvention of the NSA. These are not serious things, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u214	We are closing with the representative from Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the amendment and then go back to the bill. It is the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Civil Protection which concerns, among other things, the NSA. I really will not repeat something we have said many times, that it is your habit of bringing amendments last minute. I am not referring to you alone, Minister, in general terms. The truth is, however, that you are doing so on too many serious issues. I will also not ask for it to be withdrawn because it is not going to happen. It's gonna be a waste of time. But you should understand that on such serious issues we should have discussed before. It should have come as a bill, not even an amendment to the committee, because it could not, after all, - it is another ministry - but that it has come to be discussed properly, in the normal procedure, so that we can all be placed and listened to the people that we must have. Now, now, at the last minute, in the middle of another serious bill, we sincerely believe that neither Parliament honours you nor Parliament. From there on, as far as the content of the amendment is concerned, we are also not unscrupulous. It's not the first time you've been trying to bring in a service, an agency. This time the NSA had the luck. So you choose to carry a number of employees elsewhere. Of course, the service remains. It will serve in a second year, evidently with people who will choose and even by way of a derogation from the AACC. Honestly, in the sense of 'bad lawmaking' you have given a special, your own meaning. You've gotten over the bad stuff. You have even forgotten the law on the final state brought by Mr Gerapettis. It was one of your first bills on good law. Of course you want to build an army of excellent and pleasurable. You're doing it. Last victim is S.H.I.E.L.D. It is certain that others will follow. It won't be your last. From that point on, we will be placed in more detail on this when the Minister responsible comes to support it. So I am going through your bill, Mr Voridis, in the Ministry of the Interior bill, which is fundamental to volunteering. It is a bill made up of fifty-six articles and divided into two parts. The first, which is the first twenty-seven articles, concerns the civil society organisations, the socially beneficial bodies for voluntary employment and is composed of seven chapters. Among other things, provision is made in its provisions for the establishment of a Directorate for Civil Society, issues relating to state funding, voluntary employment and tax incentives. I've told the committee since the first time. We must listen to the people of the Civil Society, because they are the actors in the field. These people from the beginning, from consultation, through a joint declaration, have highlighted and demonstrated the black points of your bill, considering that it is a bill that, although attempting to regulate relations between the state and civil society and to resolve the field of volunteering, its approach neither strengthens nor contributes to the development of civil society. On the contrary, there is no complete lack of the setting up of a framework of confidence and effective cooperation between the civil society organisations and the state. Especially when we think that over the last eleven years now of the crisis and after four memorials, volunteerism seems to grow quickly and that, as many studies show, perhaps the crisis leads people to be more receptive to helping their fellowman. Surely the environment that surrounds the way the Civil Society operates could contribute and strengthen such efforts of our active fellow citizens who want to help their microcosm or want to help with - with a national objective - our country. However, as small as the action of such a group is, the only thing is certain - and I will repeat it once again - that in their own small world, in their own local society, each such group is helping multiplely, creating and strengthening the ties and helping, many times, our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens who often come to face natural disasters, fires, floods and voluntary groups are there to help, to fill a gap that should not exist, to fill that gap left by the coordinate state. Let us not confuse volunteering exclusively with NGOs. It includes them, but that's not all. Volunteerism includes every sort of small group that acts, even though it is a cultural club, a sports club, a group that collects food or anything else and gives it to people in need. These people must be supported, we must help them. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] We cannot ignore that these small groups of civil society in particular are the ones that need help and support, and most of all when they are in the early stages of their operation. Unfortunately, however, instead of aid and support, there are red tape and huge obstacles, which are difficult, especially when we talk about small groups, to be able to overcome them, so that they can continue to work. In their comments during the consultation period, I consider, as in all the information we have all received these days from groups in the Civil Society, that there are very specific points which have been shared with us. They're telling us how they treat the bill. They consider that widespread restrictions of a purely punishing nature are being introduced and imposed. Restrictions that exclude the Civil Society Organisations fighting for the disintegrating and reintegrating of people into society. Other colleagues have said so, and I will repeat it from this Step forward, that reintegration is really extremely important, if we want to speak in our country of confiscation, and if we do not want to have a punishing person to all of our fellow people, who at some point, for some reason, may be an abuse, it may be a public debt, someone has a business and closed down - they have been condemned. These people, when they serve their sentence, should be able to reinstate themselves in society. Such groups of the Civil Society are a step by step, a step by step, for their reintegration. Let's not fence them, let's not shut it down, let's help them as long as we can. In addition, civil society bodies point out that there are fundamental shortcomings in forecasting legislation in such an important area as volunteering, leaving exponential organisations and volunteers. Let's go now soon, and to be in time, in the second part of the bill. Compensation is to be paid to the Secretaries of the Special Selection Councils. There are issues relating to the infringement of decisions of primary disciplinary boards, as well as the functioning of secondary disciplinary bodies. A specific procedure is set out to cover temporary needs of new services of any organisational field of general government bodies. Amendments are made to the Code of the Hellenic National, with the addition of the supporting documents of the Minister of the Interior's decision in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(2) of the Catastrophe for us, No 4735/2020, on the basis of which the economic and legal criteria are established. The procedure for the homosexuals is redefined, a procedure that is tightened up and further bureaucratic, and which is considered automatically rejected by the applications for naturalisation for which there is no response from the applicants. At the same time, the budget issues of the municipalities are regulated, with the extension of the provisions providing for the use of fees and fees to cover other needs of the municipalities. The transfer of unskilled credits may be made to ensure the proper functioning of return services. In addition, the provisions of Article 43 of Law 4325 on the reimbursement of expenses and the balance of payments of services by other government budget codes are to be applied. Articles 42 to 45 provide that expenditure paid by municipalities from 1 January 2020 up to and including the publication of proposed arrangements in the context of the implementation of projects and actions financed by European programmes for which the provisions of d.d.86/2016 were not complied with, but the relevant commitment decisions were adopted prior to their payment. An appeal by the municipality may be brought before the coordinator of the decentralised administration concerned. At the same time, there is provision for the origin of self-righteousness of the trans-democratic company called "Trans-Municipal Regional Theatre - Trans-Municipal Public Benefit Business Corfu" in the Municipality of Central Corfu and Interopodian Islands as a municipal company named "Municipal Regional Theatre - Cosmetic Operation of the Municipality of Corfu and the Diapondian Islands". There are issues relating to the rights and obligations of the Municipality of Corfu, the staff of the interstate company and the validity of the PPP and project contracts. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that unfortunately the bill that we are discussing, although it could work therapeuticly and enhance the part of volunteering in our country, not only does it not regulate the framework of civil society, but it seems to nullify the work of all those who have zealously, in love, with effort, helping our fellow citizens and covering gaps that the state leaves us. Instead of listening to the ruling party these people and looking after the building of a continuous, good, harmonious cooperation, he has unfortunately preferred to turn his back on them. He preferred to raise bureaucratic walls and dynamite their course, leading many fate in abandoning effort. At a time and in a country like ours, where the culture of volunteering and thirst for human support are becoming more and more intense, instead of acting as representatives of our active citizens, we find them difficult and turn their backs. Finally, as I have said from the outset, we cannot do anything else than vote against the bill. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, at last, to the citizens, whether they are local bodies or they are members of the Civil Society. Listen to them and stop legislating by taking them toward you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u216	Thank you too, my colleague. We are now entering the speakers. Mr Liupis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the voluntary movement has developed progressively over the last few decades in Greece and is undoubtedly a healthy expression of social activity, with solidarity and social provision in particular. This social offer is moving with freedom and self-determining the purposes to which it aims. There is a wide variety of voluntary organisations that support many different objectives. In recent years, however, some non-governmental organisations have been stigmatized by individual phenomena, which have come to the light of publicity and have been associated with mismanagement and opaque operation to exploit such subsidies. Today's bill puts forward for the first time a clear framework of operation for these organisations, strengthening transparency and accountability, and ultimately pushing the voluntary movement. It is rightly a draft law that brought great interest in the consultation stage, with many hundreds of comments from voluntary organisations, but eventually the voluntary community welcomed it with positive impression. The introduction of specific rules and an institutional framework allows the civil society organisations to develop even further. Two possibilities are essentially given: whether or not they move autonomously financially, without any State aid, so that the restrictions in this bill do not apply, or meet the conditions we are voting on today, so that they receive the extra benefits provided for by financing, by general government bodies and the state budget. The first change to be made today concerns the establishment of a Directorate for Civil Society at the Ministry of the Interior. The new service undertakes to manage the databases that are created and to renew them. Those organisations that seek to obtain State aid of up to EUR 50,000 must have been registered in the public database. The conditions for entering the database are simple and therefore they can be met by all organisations, regardless of whether they are small or large. Firstly, they must submit their statutes. Secondly, a list of management bodies. Third, APM. Fourth, financial statements for the last year and a paradox of 20 euros for the public, which, obviously, is a very small and reasonable sum. On the other hand, for those organisations that intend to receive state funding without a ceiling, registration is required in the special register. Here the conditions are increased. In other words, it requires, first, that they have been set up at least three years ago. Secondly, they must not employ and conclude contracts with members of the administration or their relatives in more than 5% of all employees. This criterion is clear because it does not make sense for them to receive such brave state grant organisations that are in fact almost purely family. Thirdly, there is a limit on costs respectively. In particular, the regular state grant received by the organisation cannot exceed 40% of the costs, of course, by deducting wage costs. This condition is necessary to ensure that a large part of the state money does go to actions rather than to fixed costs. In addition, fourth, insurance and tax information is required. And, fifthly, an audit report of a solemn auditor or a audit firm. Finally, a paradox of EUR 200 is paid, which - despite any criticisms made - is reasonable on the basis of the scale of the demands of these organisations. Indeed, after the first entry, annual renewal requires a paradox of EUR 50, which does not in fact have an excessive amount. Finally, the criminal record of the management bodies of the organisation is requested so that they have not been convicted of a felony or a serious attack, as described in the text of the bill. In the long term, the aim is to abolish the nine registers currently in existence and to record voluntary organisations so that all of this can be consolidated into a database and procedures can be simplified. In addition to all these important points, a fundamental framework is also created for those providing voluntary work. The organisation should provide the volunteer with all personal protection and health care facilities and cover costs for medicines and hospitals up to 3,000 thousand euros a year in case they are linked to the exercise of voluntary action. Also, for the first time an obligation is introduced for volunteers to be announced in the ‘ERGAN’. Despite any objections that have been raised at this point, with a view in particular to the spontaneous element of voluntary participation, the obligation to make a statement in the Erganis system comes to protect workers in civil society organisations, which are likely to appear in the framework of checks as volunteers. Professionals, such as lawyers, economists and so forth, are allowed to assist organisations without pay. The most important is the tax incentives given to donations to civil society organisations. For those who donate to public utilities and the organisations registered in the special register, the tax is reduced by 40%. Very important is the provision that exempts these organisations from the property they use for their purpose, a consistent request from these organisations, such as the "Smile of the Child". And I would add, Minister, that the point made by the representative of the Red Cross, that the exemption should also be extended to the property which remains unexploited by the institutions because they are in a bad state. It supports the bill on the institutions and organisations of the Civil Society and the provision exempting them from traffic charges for special-purpose vehicles, such as fire-fighting or transport of persons with disabilities. Overall, today's bill is a substantial and comprehensive effort by the Government and the Ministry of Interior to bring rules, limits and framework to civil society organisations. This legislative initiative gives a clear impetus to the voluntary movement in Greece, which - based on the data available to us - falls short of many European countries with little participation, as we have heard from our rapporteur, Mr Loverdos. Voluntaryism is a democratic expression, a form of offering with free will, without compelling and without having to. It is unselfish to participate in a social purpose, which ultimately answers the best aspects of human sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u218	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to mention the draft law, since our rapporteur, Alexander Meikopoulou, has made a very comprehensive and holistic approach. He is also critical of his criticism, as I understand it, and of the rapporteur for the New Democracy. I shall, however, speak of the night, unacceptable, undemocratic and twisted Friday amendment. An amendment that proves that the Mitsotakis Government has exceeded the tradition of the party, namely the party state or even the party-partial state, with the arguments of good legislation - Friday night - amendments. That is why we call on the Minister, Mr Vorides, as a very good legal - at least as I have known him - not to accept this amendment, at least at the last minute. We call, above all, on the Members of the New Democracy to force the Prime Minister, his office and the members of the Mitsotakis Government to take back the amendment, the proposed amendment. And I am addressing you, because all the wings, all the parties of opposition, anyway, reject these provisions, invoking your patriotism, as everyone feels, any version of patriotism. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Friday evening's amendment, there is Article 8, which intervenes with the police unions, providing for a single ballot with increased crusade, something completely unconstitutional. Of course, Mr Theodorikos has not surprised us with his anti-constitutional provisions, he has done so before. You are well aware, Mr Voridis, of the first laws he has made and altered the result of the municipal elections, and the composition of the Committee on Economic Affairs has altered the composition of the other committees and the regions of the country. He came out unconstitutional. Of course, the systemic media! And you will tell us how you deal with this fact, two and a half years now, the decisions of these committees to be in the air throughout the country. We all know what's going on. So is the development of the municipalities. But Mr. Theodorikos is used to it. Now, however, he plays with a sensitive area of the Greek Police, which tries not what he says, the colonization of EL.AS, but to level every voice of protest, even trade unionists of the New Democracy. And that is very dangerous, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy! It's too dangerous for the police, for our democracy, for how we're going to continue as a society. There is, in the same amendment, Article 10. We waited, after the revelations made a month ago by the "Privats' Newspaper", an answer. We have tabled a timely question and we and KINAL, Mr Kamine. You haven't even answered whether anyone from the government will come and tell us what happened with the citizens' surveillance, what happened with the surveillance of journalists, lawyers, citizens who ask for their signals. "Surrey" you've made the NSA for signals coming out. There's never been such a thing going on before. Never! Get out and ask what the ideological background is for those who give orders - and they haven't told us who they've given the mandate - to watch. Even a 12-year-old child, because he was a refugee from Syria and published his sketch at "LE MONDE", you watched. We're all asking. No answer! We are asking about the presidential dilemma that you are planning, then, exceptionally hiring the NSA, which you have done with your monitoring and the operation that you have. What presidential decree is that? Why exceptional recruitment? We had a contest for the NSA that no one had to say a word, a word! And you all understand very well what's happened in the NSA, but get it in order. So in June 2021, we received a press release, which was very elegantly told you that we were listening to this project on the NSA and that officials of the National Intelligence Agency would be transferred to another public body. And we write to you "we believe that they are lies, we believe that you do not play with national security issues, with the National Intelligence Agency". You were looking to find out where we found out, not the substance. You're looking and listening to the whole world. We don't care to hear from you. In November the revelations were made from the "The Journal of the Constitutionists" and the presidential decree, we told you again. We're waiting for answers. Because throughout this operation of the National Intelligence Service, Minister and colleagues of the New Democracy, according to the curse... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, because I have major revelations to make, you will allow me to take some more time. ...with the curse we have in relation to the freedom of the press and other issues, we put a major issue of democracy in our country and we expect answers. What criteria have the executives placed in this new OSH service in this new OSH service? On what criteria? Why can't the service be abolished after being transferred to the Greek Police? What for? Why are these people being transferred to the Greek Police without abolishing the structure and not transferring the entire structure, if you need it? What have these people done for so many months that you've done this service? Nothing. That's the answer. And what are the criteria? "As a non-Metsotatakis, barbaric", not "on the right", along with all those who are placed in the misery of the progressive party, even people who have given themselves to the National Intelligence Agency and placed themselves by the Governments of Karamanlis and Samaras together, since they are not the state of Mitsotakis. Do you understand what wounds you're opening to national security? Mr Voridis, from where you come from - now we have all matured - you have experience of the extreme right of the New Democracy for the division of the Greek people, when the NAP was used as a CFP and made monitoring and enclavements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But let us say that you are the dogma - how did you say it with Mr Mitsotakis in an election? - that you want to defeat us not for what we are doing, but for what we believe. The rest, Mr. Theodorikos, on the other hand, who came from PASOK, said nothing to this final government, what wounds did the people open up such methods of the '50s, the '60s and the dictatorship? Anything? Of course, that is why we call for your patriotism, because you understand very well, when personnel who have handled very sensitive national issues and are thus removed, what is going to happen to the National Intelligence Agency and what is at stake in national security. You understand that very well. And I'm ending up, Madam President. Seeing the other articles, we have Article 5 and Article 6. I imagine, or Mr Vorides, who I hope has not read the amendment he has accepted, or whoever comes to support this amendment will come and give us very detailed explanations of what they include, what they are - as he says in it - the services of EL.AS. that they want to cover outside the procedures for commissions and fees. In this context, however, we have looked for Article 6, which refers to the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we understand why the amendment was tabled on Friday evening. It didn't even have to do with the NSA. It had nothing to do with "Cypriot Mitsotakis", as you're going to set it up. It had to do with the simplest thing. When he was the Minister of Justice, in 1914, the current Vice-President of the Parliament became a contract with competition, which was for the surveillance of prisoners coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u221	I shall conclude, Madam President. This contract was implemented on SYRIZA. It ended in November 1919. But the agency continued to provide these services without contract. In November 2019 the committees appointed by the Convention, by the New Democracy, i.e. the Samara Government, stopped receiving the project. Two and a half years government - I don't know what mandate you're going to tell us - the company continued to provide these services. That's great! And you bring it by law now, while you have asked for an opinion from the Legal Council of State, which is rejected - I will table it together with the press releases we have made - not to proceed with payments, you want to proceed, Minister, by law. Inadmissible! Opacity, complete opacity. It's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u223	I conclude, Madam President, by submitting the original contract, signed by the then Minister of Justice, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, and by the representative of the company Mr Panagiotis Concollonas, Commander of the EEA. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] And that is a major political and moral issue, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. We will not let the Mitsotakis Government continue to play with national security, with transparency, with such reasonable and service with Friday night amendments. We won't let, and do what you want, keep this little thing going. We will not let you tear away national legislation and European legislation on public procurement. And we will not leave them and the whole democratic and progressive world of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u225	And we hope that you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will not leave this dissuasiveness, this argument for our democracy, for national security, for transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi. I have to say, however, that I have one issue in relation to time too. Ladies and gentlemen, your time is seven minutes. There will be a relative tolerance, but we cannot more than double the time. And when we say 'finish', we mean that we are finishing our speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u227	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u228	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u229	If I may just say that on this issue which Mr Spirtz has now raised, I have been informed that the Minister responsible will come in order to clarify and support the amendment. In conclusion, I would like to say that the amendment tabled by the side of Mera25 is not acceptable, mainly because it regulates a matter which has nothing to do with the Ministry of the Interior, there is no Minister here to judge this issue. That is why it is not acceptable for this reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Mylonakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with a question to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis. Minister, are you getting bonuses when you're constantly producing bills?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u232	Me, yes, and it's good too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u233	Good! Thank you very much. You can also tell us the amount of bonus, understand us, because this production of bills is not without us. You are now telling us: Protection of volunteering, strengthening of civil society activities, tax incentives, etc. What civil society, Minister? Have you been out in Civil Society to see what's going on? As Minister of the Interior, are you proud of the security of the Greek society? That's what I want you to tell us. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Crime has exceeded every limit. The phenomena of homicide, robbery, extortion and theft show that every control has been lost. You are obliged, Minister, - and I tell you that you are the first Minister of State - to feel the safety of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, one more bill of many that the government shows the government's attitude to non-governmental organisations and voluntary organisations or civil non-profit companies, finally, civil society. Well, are you working the world? Are you ashamed to say they're non-governmental organisations? What is it? Are they non-governmental organisations, voluntary organisations, non-profit companies or Civil Society? However, they are certainly not civil society. I'm going to tell you some facts, Minister, since you're here, Mr. Vorides is gone. Is the bill made for the hundreds of firefighters who dipped into flames in the summer fires in Evia, Corinth, Varumbobe, etc.Huh? No, of course not. Is this whole bill for the hundreds of citizens who were organised, while their livelihood was burning to help the firefighting and to provide the necessary to firefighters and fight in flames? Oh, no. Is it for the hundreds of our fellow citizens who ran to help people in Arkalochori who were hit by the emblem in September? No, of course not. Did those who helped overnight and who actively participated in the pain and destruction of their fellow humans in the murderous fire in Matti, trying to help as far as possible? Oh, no. Did it happen to those who rushed to help the life-saving crews in the murderous floods in Mandra Attica in 2017? No, I'm afraid so. Uh, then for those who helped to help those who woke up one morning in the Chalkida regions and watched the floods drift bridges, their cars, their homes from the bad weather "THAY"? No, of course not. Nor, of course, for firefighting volunteers patrolling the months of high risk. What volunteering is that then, ladies and gentlemen? I guess you, Minister, will consider another kind of volunteering, that of professional volunteering. Professional volunteering. Non-governmental organizations. You have not handled any matters seriously. You have left the action of hundreds of non-governmental organisations acting as a syndicate, but in fact they do most of what they want to do. Their number is unknown. The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum has established a register that has not been completed in order to register legal non-governmental organisations that act in illegal immigration. In vain. Those who have registered - here I have - will testify for the Minutes - are fifty-three, Minister. Fifty-three have been written. They're acting again, despite the laws. Nor does this list here present the legal NGOs that are active. And you know that very well. I'll file it later in the Minutes. I am talking about non-governmental organisations, because of the definitions in Article 4 which defines the concept of civil society. Listen: ‘A voluntary organisation of persons set up in Greece as a union or a non-profit company with a public purpose is independent of States or governments, local government agencies or legal entities governed by public law, political organisations and parties’. But you are not calling it a non-governmental organisation - and other colleagues have said so - and our own special speaker, Mr Hetas - so that the hair of our head does not start and rise. You find other words, as you did with the memorials. One government 'troika', the other government's 'positions', etc. It's a biscuit. It looks like that. The Civil Society, Minister, is a union or civil non-profit corporation, regardless of what we said before. Aren't you telling me, regardless of foreign interests and wallets? Regardless of offshore companies, which finance them from thousands of miles away, because they are allegedly caught in the pain to help volunteering in Greece, is it? The Greeks are hungry, the Greeks have no money to pay for PPC, the Greeks have no gas and their oil and they get cold, they lose their child abroad, children faint often from ashes in the schools, the Greeks often face the problem with the banks that will come to him and take the house. Old press releases report the millions of NGOs party in Greece since 1997. I have here, for example: 'Many money since 1997', 'Twelves of billions of euros of money allocated to various non-governmental organisations' for which we cannot even read them out. In other words, a contribution to the Albanian economy resolution programme, the fight against tuberculosis in Bulgaria, development programme in the Amazon, afforestation, ecology. These are not current phenomena. They have started years ago and their main expressor has often been the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now imagine what is going on today with these non-governmental organisations, which are even more flexible than the system, and are not at an early stage, as we have said. Shortly before 2010 NGOs were funded to support wounded in the Sri Lankan tsunami or another to rescue the Indian. I have here the issue of the millions in NGOs to save the Indian Ocean. I'm telling you these things, so you don't think the Greek people don't understand. He understands very well, Minister. Now listen to another post of 2017 - I have it here - where EUR 5.6 million is given to Danish NGOs for nonexistent feeding and heating toward Greek refugees. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 5.6m euros! I'm going to file this in the Minutes too, so you can understand that people don't eat spoon. Supervising the Ministry of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, the people's rhetoric, 'to work and to be', sticks up here. You are also recommending an Directorate of Civil Society Organizations, to help those who have listened and have not been helped by your "final" state and everything else. "What do you do?", they ask many times. ‘I am the owner of NGO’. And you're funding him, and you're taxing him. Here's the thing. And because we have to put things in place at some point, you do not rule, Minister. A state is finally ruling. The ministries don't make the laws either. You're about to take the laws. Thirty-seven independent authorities express what the "final" state says, with hundreds of millions of euros each being financed. And, of course, you're also giving them tax exemptions, which are not for ordinary civil societies, for clubs, who run volunteering, but for those who eat all the money. Finally, I would like to talk about the amendment to which all my colleagues have referred, which we shall be watching now that Mr Economou, the Ministry of Civil Protection, is coming. Well, is it possible, Minister, to do such things? You are bringing an amendment that, within the amendment, there are certain articles which are very serious and I would say in the right direction and we were prepared to vote on them. It's logical, because when we talk about police retrospectives, weekends, holidays, etc., people have to take their money. So, within this amendment - and of course, this is a common phenomenon, I do not understand what this phenomenon is - there are five good articles and one, two which break bones. National Intelligence: Okay, all right, the Commander of the NSA has nothing to do with this. The man was a securiti and he's here now and he's taking over a service. Haven't you seen how Mossad works? You haven't seen how the CIA works, how other big intelligence services work, MIT? Is it possible for you to have a party and shop the National Intelligence Agency, Minister? Listen, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago an address was set up at the National Information Service, which was responsible for collecting, analysing information, counterinformation, etc. of seventy, eighty people who were in the service in other places. They've worked a year, just like the DEO's office is working, with serious issues. And suddenly he comes - he doesn't stop the address job, the address continues to work - and he gets all the address staff in one night and moves it elsewhere. And where does he transfer it? In services, it says, of the Greek police. Do you understand what you're doing to these people? Minister, this is serious. And I think that Mr. Economou is coming because he belonged to the Greek Police and perhaps had something to do with the National Intelligence Service, he's gonna understand it. There are agents in there, there are people "skies" for years. Don't you understand what you're doing? Do you give them north? Many times they don’t even know their own families that these people work. And what are you telling them now? Go to the Security Directorates of the Departments of the Hellenic Police. Do what? Some policemen call them "Cypriots". "The Kypatzias, the rats are here." People will not be able to work because they will be out of the climate. Otherwise, they've learned to work. They're educated people, scrumptious people. They have their own people who give them information, active people abroad. There are people who worked in Turkey, in Bulgaria, in Skopje and you are now coming and giving them north, "Milonakis was at the National Intelligence Service". Even Mylonakis' family did not know that he worked as an agent, as a spy, as a "ski" in the National Intelligence Service. What are you doing now? What kind of hole is that you're opening? Understand? It's not about throwing a man out of one place to take him to another. You humiliate him, you give him up north. They'll face family problems, people themselves. Unbelievable! Immediately, right now, this thing has to go and everyone has to support it. Mr. Brutsi, please very much. You are a man who is currently a Parliamentary of the New Democracy. We must, Ministers, do something here and now. It's dishonest what we do to these people. We're giving them north? Are we humiliating them? What are these things? Find out how the intelligence services work at last. It's national security. It is not a shop of neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA nor any party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Madam President, for giving me the floor. I am particularly grateful to Mr Delis of the Communist Party of Greece, the MP who gave me his turn. I'm starting right away so I don't have more time for you and I don't have to delay my partner anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, nineteen thousand forty-eight are the dead of the pandemic until last night. If all eighty to one hundred and five today are added, that figure will be sixteen thousand three hundred. Do you know what this means, ladies and gentlemen, to the Greek Parliament? It means that in the next eighteen days until the time is over, we will be over twenty thousand and that is tragic! And it would only be tragic if it wasn't criminal. And especially in the case of Greece, and especially in the case of the governance of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." it is a crime, because in the budget, which we will all be called upon to vote - and we shall vote against both arms with the mouth and with the teeth - from tomorrow to Saturday, which will come the day of the vote, in this budget, without any shame from any one government, will reduce the funds for health by EUR 800 million, almost EUR 1 billion, while in the previous year half billion had already been cut. Especially for immediate primary health care, that is, precisely the system that welcomes and treats people who die every day from COVID and all those who suffer from cutting it, you are limiting it by EUR 279 million this year. And one wonders, what will this budget increase this year? In fact, what is more urgent than a hundred dead a day and raise the funds there to reduce by one and a half billion. A total of two years ago and this year on the supreme issue of the war we've been fighting for two years with the pandemic? What is it? Only “Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.” knows it and knows it well what it is. More urgently for him is to privatise the National Health System and so it must not be done everywhere throughout the country, centres for free tests, which will then remain dowry, like the health centres you have unleashed with your five Memorandums. This government is the first priority not to re-establish the ESS, which has systematically worked out. She wants health for her people, the parasitic health oligarchs. So it's not horrible. It's criminal. And I'm very afraid the criminal is among us. And you know, in democracy, there's no alibi for any excuse. The criminal is based on a hundred and fifty-seven MPs, who are you, and you support him who is reducing health expenditure for a second year with nineteen thousand two hundred forty dead today. What else can anyone say? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we met the seasonal firemen. And since we're talking about volunteering, do you know why in Vilia, St. Stephanos, in northern Evia, the volunteers saved us everywhere and we didn't burn down? What volunteers? Those whom you called the earrings, that is, those with long hair, earrings, those who you considered to be Turkish agents and who are going to burn us. You arrested them and proved to be children with a different picture -- images that didn't suit you -- which left their peace. You slandered them two years ago that they're gathering squares and dispersing the pandemic. These kids left their peace, they went to Vilia, they went to St Stephano, they went to northern Evia and they rescued us. That's volunteering. And they had to save us, because the seasonal firefighters weren't in place. Why, Madam President, were the seasonal firemen not in their position? You know? Because seasonal firefighters were hired for a semester in Greece and their time had expired. Infinitely good scenes took place, where houses were burning, the seasonal firefighters were there, but they couldn't intervene, because the time had passed, as you humiliated yourself to renew the contract for the whole year. So the seasonal firefighters are asking for a five-year term and they are absolutely right. And it goes without saying that they are right. And they're not just right. We are right, and we, the Greek people, who want not to burn. Why? Because because of strong climate diversification, climate disaster by capitalism, firefighters are no longer just for fires. The storms, storms, hails and snowfall are more frequent than fires, but above all the floods that we have mourned more dead than those in the fires. There is no alibi to be the seasonal firefighters only in the summer anymore in Greece. It's ridiculous. Their request is self-evident. You know, those firefighters I'm talking about are the firefighters you take at every opportunity. They're the ones who sent two of them to the hospital a few weeks ago because they went out of the ministry to ask for the self-evident, to simulate themselves. One of them raved in the hospital. Before you tried to kill them, what did you do? You've just been ignoring them for so long. It is characteristic that, when you went to kill them, their delegation was down and asked to meet the relevant Minister at the Ministry's ladder, he did not come down and the relevant Minister did not accept to see this bulb of society, these semi-trailers, the seasonal firefighters. He didn't accept. The Undersecretary came down and took like a thief to the stairs, as if they were contaminating that the seasonal firefighters would come in and sit a delegation of them to speak human to the Minister. This is the democracy of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.". That's exactly her. Do you know why you're treating them like this? You treat them like that, because for you, they're not human, like no human being when it's not your tool, like policemen aren't when you don't need them. You knitting the eugomium when you need them. Once you stop needing them, you throw them and the responsibilities for what you have not done. You don't see them, so you don't meet them, they don't exist for you. When their work's over, they disappear from the room. They suddenly cease to exist for your eyes. We ask you to respect only the pretexts and meet them only for the laundry of civil protection, as every time they save you and don't come out in the forum. And don't forget that every time they unleash you in the way I said before, they have one or the other degree these people risk their own lives. They're the ones who become opaque and invisible after you. Ten hours ago we congratulate them every time someone burns or drowns, but immediately afterwards we go to the Ministry and a Undersecretary comes down and says "You can't get in, you'll get us dirty, we'll be bleededed if you go in." "Resalto" by "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", this is the crucial point of the day I think, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my dear Parliamentarians, Mr Brutsis, at the National Agency - all of us, of all information with one - how to characterize it, I will call it an amendment that you tabled on the Saturday morning. At dawn, they show you've got your nest dirty. What does Mitsotakis S.A. do with this amendment? He's also doing "resalto" in the NSA. In particular, what are you doing? Take the third Sub-address and the second Directorate for Information Collection and Analysis, extremely important addresses and sub-addresses, and shoot them, sending them to the Greek Police. It's amazing! I'm sorry, I was wrong, so I wouldn't misunderstand your addresses and sub-addresses. You take the staff and take it to the Greek Police, which means what does that mean? Either the addresses and subdirections were useless, so you had to abolish them along with the staff, which was now overtaken, overcrowded and had to go somewhere else to serve, or they are useful and something bothers you already in existence. What's bothering you? His know-how? No way. His experience? No way. It's probably annoying you that you haven't assigned them. It is known that there is a Presidential Decree in the Board of State pending, which concerns new recruitments to the EEA for the competition that will run, as we all know, at the beginning of 2022, with its main feature of bypassing the SAPA. So here's why all these people are leaving. We also remind you that these officials who are transferred to EL.AS. Since the summer of 2019, everyone has been in a ‘fridge services’. Let's say it open, people figure it out. What happened? You found them from SYRIZA and they don't? But SYRIZA didn't have time to put them all. Apparently, you, Samaras, were appointed last time or George Papandreou the previous time. Generally, the "pads", the "carceds" and the carcendaurs are super-participants of anyone who has been running in this place, do not spoil your streets. Ready, you'll have to do whatever you tell them. You don't have to change them. But you're changing them. So the thing here, in our opinion, that you do not respect the pretexts is clear, ladies and gentlemen. Mitsotakis S.A. is once again a para-state. Heavy expression, and I'll explain what I mean. You're sending out those people and those who don't make you and bring your own people out through the window. Attention. I am not addressing all of you, I am not even addressing the Minister who is here. I don't know if he's a match to the opinions. We are addressing it in particular. Our complaint has a name and is called "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.". So this anonymous company is setting up a para-state again, and I am explaining why I say 'roughly'. Is there anything to you, ladies and gentlemen, the names 'Greek' and 'Mauritius'? Do they remind you of anything? How don't they remind you? They remind me of me. The interstate network of intercepts built then by the New Democracy again - my of the miracle! - led by a Mitsotakis. Who's Misotakis? Constantine Mitsotakis. I am therefore addressing the Members of the New Democracy, the New Democracy world, to you all and to your world, reminding you of the very simple thing. In your third conference, in April 1994, following the two-year rule of Constantine Mitsotakis, with your new Chief of State at the time, Evert, the main theme on your conference's agenda was, in introductory reading: The de-mixing of your party, in both ideology and mechanisms. Since 1994, you guys have not done so well, in the demolition of your party, because you still have Mitsotakis to bring such amendments, which again bring the para-state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish soon, Madam President. I will read you a letter that came to me, I imagine to other Members, although I am not sure why he is special, he came to my email and signed five different musicians in Greece. He says: "I'm a musician in the profession, registered in the artist's register", you know, Mrs. Mendoni, this wonderful record. "Since now I, like many colleagues, received the special-purpose allowance for months until July 2021, which we received a few days ago. In August and September our industry continued to be affected, since many areas are in Lockdown, but many fairs have been canceled and certainly no nightclub has worked. The joint ministerial decision that had been made for those months allowed to work up to three musicians in a shape and without a microphone, which means, in practical terms, that 98% of fellow musicians did not work", ladies and gentlemen. The activity number 94.99 of '16, which refers to services provided by cultural events, is suspended, as you know, until September of '21. They say to me: "As an artist and you think that holidays are coming," listen to you at the moment, it is also about them that we have holidays, "that we have children, that we have obligations towards your state - us - and our families - and that is why we are trying to claim compensation for the months of August and September." Is it so great, ladies and gentlemen? Is that so awesome? 665 million you shared in the first half of the year for the foregone profits of Mr Vassilis, Mr Vassilis, the Germans' 'FRAPORT', to the concessionaries of the tolls, who have a partner of Mr Bobola, the well-known and unexplained, and the 'Aegean OIL', a multinational of the greedy American species. You gave them 665 million lobsters. Ten grand are these people. Ain't anyone ashamed of this? Let me, for being an actor. Let me, for being an artist. You're MPs. I invite you to consider the phrase 'we would appreciate it very much if you also contributed to our claim for compensation for these two months'. It's about 20 grand, four parliamentary allowances clean. Let's do it. I can't, because we have eight MPs, but you have a hundred fifty-seven. Do it! For God's sake! Give the parasitics, give the king, give the Bobola, but give the crumble to poverty. So what is it? Is this a matter of aesthetic for you? Is analgesia a matter of aesthetics? What is it? I look at you without being blamed for anything, because you're not Mitsotakis. I imagine you're as good as all of us. And they conclude: “We are not appalling, but neither are we lazy. We want to work, but with 10% of nightclubs open and with a 5% of artistic activities in progress it is impossible for all of us artists to work." Think about how much you're enjoying. Mr. Pecha, think about your list. I don't want to fight about it again. We've never had a fight, but I don't want to argue about it. Passed, forgotten, although it's amazing that you don't call the canals so we can ask them why they got on your list. You don't call the Canadians in the committee of inquiry, so we left. Well, really, think about your list. It's nineteen the first, but so many the second. It is 20 grand for all our colleagues to live. I shall close, Madam President, and I shall leave you at once, and I will certainly have made my commitment to Mr Delis, who has given me the order. The body language. Have you noticed Mr. Mitsotakis when he contacted journalists who are not Greek? So with journalists who are neither captives of great interests, are they financed or his partners? Have you noticed him? It's indicative. She's amazing. It reminds me personally of Vim Venders' emblematic film "The enduring guard's anguish before the penalty." It's a '69 movie, amazing. It's a parable. He's not talking about a quarter guard, about a pendant. However, the title is just the feeling that one is getting from this treacherous Prime Minister, who is doing what? He's petty, he's shortened, absorbed by himself, as he knows what's waiting for him. He's been waiting for a non-paid question and not a question he's been given half an hour before to know what he's going to answer. It is small, disappearing and reminiscent of the other great doctrine, Madam President, of the army, what we all served well, "try not to exist, wipe yourself out, or you will constantly eat shifts and chores". It becomes the Prime Minister, therefore, that is to say, it is squeezing, as if it were seeking not to see his existence on the ground. Do you know what asked him - and I close with that, Madam President - right after the wonderful interview Mr Mitsotakis had given? Well, I'm not talking about the Dutch journalist. Her head was rocked by a number of bullies, and she got up and left. He made arguments - I recall - about Greece. He said: 'Why are you lying that you are not making regressions and you are not complaining about your ombudsmen, the Europeans in Brussels who are forcing you to do them'? And instead of the Prime Minister grabbing it and saying "yes, you say it, too, the Dutch, the journalist, are forcing us" he said "no, you are an enemy of Greece", because he said, "Tell him the truth, that it is not up to you to do no further advances." So, Mr Mitsotakis, after his famous interview at the BBC, which no one in the BBC, whoever has taken it, gave, Madam President, his amazing interview with CNN, where the journalist, of course, told him the obvious, what the stones all over Europe know, that we are being bullied to death, that we are the worst country in the European Union after Romania. The only country that passes us must be Romania. By January, we'll get through them. When I asked him that, Mr Mitsotakis really followed exactly the enduring guard's agony before the penalty. Sniffle, sniffle, sniffle, vanished, began to think "now what consultant she let me ask this inconsistent question". Then he realized that he's not in Maximos, that he's in CNN, and he thought, "I've forgotten how democracy is with freelance for so many years that I systematically suppress it in my home country." Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u236	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Madam President. A bill on volunteering, then, but let's first look at its definition. Volunteerism is a social value, characterised by both the will to offer and selflessness, the absence of expectation for any benefit, moral or material. And this attitude to offer to society exists and manifests itself in the workers and in the new generation, because it is quite simply for most of them that their hearts do not bear on seeing all around them poverty, inequality and injustice grow. Of course, we must not forget, at the same time, that this participation in the class struggle, in unions and in the mass media, is voluntary and, of course, consciously, with a view to improving the lives of the people in this irresponsible struggle for the abolition of the exploitation of human beings. Is the question here, however, that in a class society where a farmer lives at the expense of the rest, the term'social group' stands? Or would it only stand, if the wealth produced were the fruit of the whole society, and if, of course, any growth was in favour of the people rather than of the profits of the few? However, as you know, this does not exist, because it is quite simply social as well as civil society in a class society that is deeply divided into classes, which have inconsistent opposition and totally opposite interests. Perhaps, instead of a society of 'citizens' with little or no sons, it would be more appropriate in this case and in the society where the'sellers' society is living with omega and be. So why else is it that the ruling class and its governments, together with the European Union, give volunteering meaning and other meaning, quite different, the working class and the folk. And if, for the working class and the people, this meaning of volunteering is expressed in their own class of solidarity and solidarity, for the ruling, urban order, for the European Union, for their governments, for example, volunteering is taken advantage of in the first place, in order to alleviate some clear social contradictions and, as you say, to - as is true - basic social needs, in order to prevent the extreme impoverishment, social tensions, as you say the full extortion of society. The urban perception of volunteering is not only limited to this, however, it extends to the economic value of volunteering, as it is considered to be the third sector of the economy, the so-called'social economy', which provides material goods and services, which are 'weak', of course, they do not want to offer either the state or the so-called 'free market'. In fact, with a report from the University of Johns Hopkins, the titled "During the Civil Society and Volunteerism", the sector of so-called "non-profit institutions" contributes to the Gross Domestic Product in many of the developed capitalist countries even up to 7% of their GDP. In addition, volunteering promotes employability and social inclusion, as the Commission itself says in its official document. Listen to what it says: "Succession..." - says the Commission - "... plays an important role in the acquisition of skills and in improving the employability of the volunteer. Volunteers acquire a wide range of skills and skills. Voluntary activities provide valuable informal learning experience that enables young people to acquire skills and facilitate their transition from education to employment. Volunteerism is also a means of lifelong learning," the Commission concludes. What does the European Union say to us? You finished school, the IKK, the TEI, the university, and you don't have a job? No one hires you because you don't have any practical experience? The solution proposed by the European Union is to work for a period of unpaid work and that can - it can work for you. That is what the European Union says, and that is what it is doing. And in our homeland, of course, the policy of volunteering is developing - sorely - at relatively rapid rate and there are plenty of business groups' initiatives for its organisation. They therefore create volunteer structures, which are promoted through the European Union, organisations, regions, municipalities, churches, non-governmental organisations and even capitalist companies themselves. In many countries of the European Union, for example, - in Greece, not so much is true - banks have been created up to time, where one offers, for example, to paint someone's home and in exchange he will take care of children or someone else for some hours. But you know? Another thing is the painting of the house, and another is the solidarity and practical support between the workers and the issues - we are talking about now - of health and welfare, which is extremely serious, because the life and health of the labourers cannot be left to the voluntary disposition of some people or the charitable figure of business groups. Health must be a universal right and an exclusive obligation of the state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute at the most. Is it possible for tuberculosis vaccine, for example, to be assigned to NGOs and where it arrives? Nor is that what we ask of the state, Mr. Rapporteur of the Government? Then why are we paying taxes? As we see, then, the volunteering that the urban system promotes is multi-dimensional, very important, and that also explains the current legislative intervention of the government, of course, and of the previous governments, always on the same axes as the European Union, which are, of course, the direct, but also the long-term interests of capitalists. It is an ideological and political mechanism to incorporate or inactivate parts of workers and the unemployed, puts obstacles to radicalisation itself, class consciousness, covers the real causes of social deprivation phenomena and creates that expectation that something better can come into this capitalist jungle. And, of course, it is an objective brake on the development of class solidarity with the content, of course, of changing production patterns. In capitalism, voluntary work is not an expression of class solidarity, it is a fruit for the people, it is nothing but unpaid work, which, in the end, is one way or another, the benefits of the great business groups and the urban state as an expression of their own collective interests. When we talk about volunteering, it also concerns unpaid work, usually in social services, which the state should provide exclusively and free of charge, we say, given that it collects a lot of taxes. And so volunteering helps, so that the urban state constantly reduces its own budget for these sectors and increases the share it gives the capitalists. After all, in order not to say much, even these very voluntary programmes of the European Union are financed by money from the workers themselves in the Member States, and at the same time they are implemented by volunteer workers who are not paid for this work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u238	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u239	I'm closing, Madam President. The volunteering, therefore, organized by monopolies and imperialist associations is in the interests of the dominant class. On the contrary, solidarity between workers, their mutual assistance and support in conjunction with that agonist of life are the genuine ideals of the people's strata, it is what has been done in northern Evia by her own people several weeks ago, which, in front of the state oligoria, the people of Northern Evia were organized, fought, saved what could be saved and collectively claiming their right, finally proving that only the people can save the people. In conclusion, the unselfish offer - there concludes - only finds it in a society where the wealth produced will be fruited by those who produce it and that the work will be organised so that it serves the people's needs and moves forward with society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u240	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, in a bill, which has a common interest, the overwhelming majority of the sides of the House from the parties to the opposition of those who preceded me spoke about things that have completely out of the contents that we are here to discuss today, about the bill. Since the morning this debate I have heard about unemployment, about fuel increases, about pandemic debate, even monopolies, which has to do with issues relating to Marxism and capitalism. That is what we heard just now, and even how the Prime Minister puts himself in his interviews. For what now? For a bill entitled 'Protection of volunteering, strengthening of the activities of the Civil Society, tax incentives for strengthening the socially beneficial action of civil society organisations and other provisions'. That's our bill. This is where we need to place ourselves. However, there have also been positions which I must say that on the basis of deep reflection on what points we agree and where we disagree, I think there has been convergence here. I understand that we agree on the big ones. We agree, firstly, that volunteering is something very important and beneficial. We agree, secondly, that volunteering organisations are also very important and have done a very important job over the years. Where the issue is concerned, the real problem is whether or not we agree with the existing status of volunteers, we are happy or not. And here comes to answer the bill. I heard before Mr Mylonakis, on behalf of the Greek Solution, in his assessment and in the criticism of the functioning of volunteering organisations, the formerly called the new name now the Civil Society Organisations. I couldn't agree more with him. There was an unpapered sea, an unpapered, fragmented framework for the organization. They weren't recorded anywhere, they were scattered. Secondly, their function was controversial. Many doubted them as to the purpose they pursued, i.e. whether the non-profit became profitable in the end. Mr Mylonakis, I said that in the part of the criticism you have made of non-governmental organisations, I agree with you and that is exactly what is coming to cover the bill today. It was the question of transparency in the functioning of non-governmental organisations, and in all of this complex it is today that the bill comes to an intervention, without saying that the problems are solved, something which we agree in principle, in favour of volunteering, in favour of volunteering organisations, but to bring more transparency, more attractiveness to these organisations, more control over organisations said by some Members and I agree that when you are financed by the state, you must be assessed for where this money is and someone should control you. That is what the bill is doing today, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, it seeks greater transparency. I think that here we cannot disagree with the contents of the bill, but also with the desire that these organisations and all of us must have to seek transparency when they are financed by the state budget. It also seeks accountability and protection of public money. To date, the criticism that has been made and not all of them, but at least from where it was made for non-governmental organisations, was precisely that. We read it in the press, talked it over here in the House. Many Members have made it a dominant issue as to how these non-governmental organisations operate and whether there should be a framework for organising them both in their effectiveness and in their attractiveness and in the transparency of the preservation of public money. That's exactly what we're doing. I don't understand now if we agree on this why do we disagree? I have heard the criticism of the issues that are about making the framework of these organisations more bureaucratic, that they will find it difficult to operate, that this does not serve them at the end of the process. Let's see what we're doing. It is quite simply that there were nine organisations of these non-governmental organisations, and today these nine are turning them into two. Two registers are formed, one with an economic criterion to which all and a second with funding from EUR 50,000 and more than the state budget, which are organised on another basis, can easily be accessed. So we're simplifying and clarifying the whole framework. We make it more structured, more specific. What do we do now? What does the bill say? And that is where there is disagreement on the part of SYRIZA, mainly, on the issue of bureaucracy introduced by the bill and making the lives of the new civil society organisations more difficult. We say, therefore, that organisations which are financed with a sum of less than 50 000 per year are obliged to have a letter of recommendation, their statutes - self-evidently - and the number of tax records, the financial situation of the last year, a declaration that fulfils the independence of contracts and a list of the institutions of the administration to be included in the very simple register of voluntary organisations. Does anyone disagree with that? Where's the hard part? Where's the paperwork? That was the first electronic record. Let's go to second. What does the second level say? They are voluntary organisations that will have more than EUR 50 000 a year. What do we ask of them? We are asking: First, a report by a sworn accountant to be included in this register of the last two previous years, to see the past of these organisations and how they were working. Who's going to be in control? The undisputed prestige of the auditor who will put his stamp and his signature under the financial situation of these organisations. So he'll show us what that non-governmental organization was in the past or the volunteering organization and how it worked for the three years, where they took the money he took, how he paid it, where he spent it. Is that bad? Is it or is it not in favour of transparency? And with what control framework will the sworn auditor move? With Law 4449/2017, which is in the duties of the judiciary. We're not changing anything. We're not doing a different procedure. This is what is foreseen by the Act of 2017 in the context of the operation of the sworn auditors. Is there anyone who can argue with that? Secondly, we are asking - I said it before - financial statements to check the recent past of the two years, to see how this voluntary organisation worked financially. We ask for both self-evident things. We ask, firstly, for tax information and secondly for insurance information. Does anyone agree that these organisations should be in the formal but also essential part of an insurance and tax information system? This creates a brake and creates bureaucracy? Do they have to meet them? Of course they must. At the time they get money from the state, should there not be accountability on the basis of transparency that we all want for where this money is going? I think that, Mr Mylonakis, you will at least agree on the accountability and transparency that should govern this whole organisation's operation. That's what we're doing! We have developed a good bill that comes to rationalise and put into a proper organisational aspect all this environment that we have so far all disputed and had questions about its operation. It puts it in a framework of operation now with transparency and accountability. We opened it and talked to all scientists. This bill. We either vote for it and agree with it or we do not agree. I also heard from the JRC the question of the integration of volunteers into "ERGANI". Needless to tell you the usefulness and usefulness of "ERGANIS" from 2013 until today, which no one here disagrees. But tell me what can be termed a volunteer today. I don't think it's easy. Without special knowledge, but I think if anyone wanted to identify themselves as a volunteer, record and have a volunteer attestation, it wasn't easy. Today that we have the possibility of this valuable 'ERGAN' tool being classified within a framework which is electronically indisputable and with absolute transparency, volunteers will be recorded, I think it is in favour of volunteering, because it can easily be accessibility tomorrow and ask for a certificate that they are volunteers and have a framework of rules on who volunteers really are. The question has been raised whether they will be unemployed or not. But is that possible? Do volunteers count on unemployment or not? Is that a matter? Unemployment has a framework of assessment by ELSTAT on the basis of which we measure it and the flow of wage earners is another framework. There is no link between the survey of volunteers in "ERGANI" and unemployment. But no relationship! Why are we going to falsify things? And I even heard the other one about their integration into full insurance contributions. Allow me, but this cannot be done! So whoever volunteers the next day will cover all the insurance contributions? We're talking about hundreds of millions! This is a new insurance policy that cannot be accepted even as a joke. The volunteer is a volunteer. It offers its services for the common good that we all agree, and I am very pleased that the SYRIZA side - and I have heard this - is in favour of volunteering. We are all in favour of volunteering. And I have heard the observation that we have a disproportionate framework between volunteering organisations and people in volunteering. We need to look at this issue. The Interior Minister must see it. And good for Mr. Pecha and Mr. Voridis who brought this bill. I think it is a bill - and we can agree beyond the individual differences - that sets conditions for transparency, accountability on an issue that has so far been broken into as a black signal in the functioning of these organisations. We can't deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u242	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u243	Why, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Brutsis spoke personally about me. He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u245	Is that what you want on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u246	Yeah, just a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u247	It was a cause, not a personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u248	I guess Mr. Brutsis didn't understand. What New Democracy does with this bill is: Firstly, it legalises the financing of non-governmental organisations. He's changing the words, thinking he's gonna make fun of the world. Secondly, it's tax-free. And because I said 'ERGAN', we do not agree, of course, because they are written as volunteers, Mr Brutsi. You were at the Ministry of Labour a long time. In other words, neither workers nor unemployed. So the unemployment these people have as volunteers who go and help, are not registered as unemployed, so unemployment is also falling. This is how you try to reduce unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u249	You have a minute, Mr. Brutsi, and we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u250	Wait a minute, I owe Mr. Mylonakis. The unemployment rate, Madam President, Mr Mylonakis, does not count as 'ERGAN'. The unemployment rate is measured by ELSTAT. ‘ERGAN’ measures wage-earners. There has been a distortion of reality and confusion here. I understand that. Another thing is the "ERGANI" that measures the flow of wage earners and ELSTAT. The unemployment in our country is measured on the basis of the European norms, which are EUROSTAT, which here in Greece, ELSTAT is applying the exact same level of unemployment. ELSTAT counts it and has nothing to do with the volunteer's ‘programming’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u251	Thank you. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes at a critical, I would say, shortcut during the pandemic. So it would be very interesting to see what the application of volunteerism in Greece is at the time of crisis, after so many years of monuments and in the middle of the coronary and its mutations. On this very subject of voluntary employment, I should like to mention some important points. He said, of course, that Greece is among the countries with the lowest voluntary contribution and the lowest contribution of volunteering to GDP. We must see why this is happening, but whether the draft law of the government really solves the problem that really promotes volunteering in our home country. Traditionally, the Greeks are a people who historically appeal to volunteering, solidarity with neighbor. One would say more than many other peoples. And yet, today, there is a strong suspicion in our society that the organisations of so-called civil society, whatever their actual volunteering, are serving, which is certainly unfair, because close to dry matter and greens, and so no one knows where unselfishness ends and where interest begins. However, the problem is not going to be resolved with this draft law, which the Greek Solution has pointed out to you since the first time. And you know why? Because it starts distortingly. Instead of creating a single national register for civil society organisations and entering a class at last, on the contrary, many individual registers have been set up in various Ministries and on different criteria from each other, as well as different rights and conditions. This is because there is, at first, a major condition that an organisation should be set up to register in the national register in one of the thematic areas provided for in the draft legislation, but something that is not actually the case. You're talking, gentlemen of the government, about a digital revolution. However, we can see in fact that the current situation is not improving either by this draft law. You just needed to do something else. In a single legislation to regulate the issue in a coherent way, creating an electronic database for all organisations in the Ministry of Interior. I have a first comment on Article 13 which describes what voluntary employment includes. Where is the separation that clearly had to be made from one private organisation and from the other to state bodies? Should there still not be a clear definition of what exactly is voluntary employment? It is also stated that voluntary employment is not meant, for example by first-degree relatives. In other words, children or brothers are excluded from voluntary activities only because of their close family. You do not make it clear how it will be possible to check whether an employee is indeed a volunteer or undeclared worker, but what the law provides for if someone is injured during voluntary work. What's the insurance box? Article 14 concerning the obligations and other provisions is already unclear in the first paragraph to cover workers with labour legislation. Is it volunteering or subordinated work? Unambiguous. In accordance with paragraph 2a on the announcement of volunteers by the institution to the information system ‘ERGAN’, should it not be foreseen what will happen in the event of an emergency, such as natural disasters? Because in this case the volunteer will naturally not be able to register in the system because of an urgent situation. In paragraph 2(c), what is the basis for calculating medical expenses? And here we have ambiguity. Finally, in paragraph 4, why is there no provision for any freelance professional or self-employed person, but only limited to certain qualifications? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that our country is back on the subject of volunteering, if you wish for historical reasons. Few people know that volunteering first appeared in Greek thought with ancient amphibians, which were purely voluntary and without remuneration to participants. But then during the period of Turkish domination, Agia Philothei opened the way for volunteering. She even lost her life for him by building various charities and nurseries. And in 1821 so many charities there were of the wealthy Greeks abroad to their tortured compatriots, while Manto Mavrogenous had all her fortune for the race. It's all volunteering. Unfortunately, the bill does not solve any problems from the existing ones, instead maintains them and perpetuates them. And while the government could simply unify in a single context old volunteer reports such as Law 3013/2002 on civil protection or Law 3536/2007 on independent authorities, unfortunately does not do so, but simply creates another law alongside the previous ones. We Greek Solution, therefore, cannot support this bill and we are clearly voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Cappatos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u254	Madam President, I have been asking for the floor for some time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u255	Did you ask me? Excuse me, I didn't write it down. I'll give you the floor right after. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior, which we are discussing today, concerns volunteering, civil society and the mutually beneficial action of the agencies involved in it is a great bill. The proposed draft law on issues relating to the registration, registration and funding of voluntary organisations that are in the form of associations or civil non-profit companies with a public purpose shall be uniformly and fully regulated. After all, with this, we can ensure conditions of accountability, integrity, transparency and good management in the sensitive area intervening between the state and the market. This is an area where the weaknesses of these two institutions are covered by civil society actors first. At the same time, it is this intermediate place where new social demands are formed and pathogens of state and market heal. It is therefore an institutional responsibility for the organised state to shape the framework that will facilitate the organisation, efficiency and freedom of civil society actors to fulfil the purpose for which they are active. An objective which is not facilitated by nine different registries today by non-governmental and voluntary organisations, which are not facilitated by the non-existent interconnection of these registries and organisations, which is not facilitated, lastly, by the lack of incentives to support initiatives of mutual interest. This gap, ladies and gentlemen, comes to cover this legislative text. From the action of the volunteer citizens and the support of the private initiative to the clarification of the area we call the 'third sector', the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior gives us an excellent opportunity to trigger the organised liberation of civil society actors in a number of areas, such as environmental protection, human rights, cultural heritage and international humanitarian aid. Having developed the draft law in the relevant committee, however, let us see practically what is new. The first is that it defines the concept of the organisation of civil society, lays down common rules and criteria for its operation and regulates their relations with the organized state. The second is that it creates a single public database for organisations active in Greece. This in turn provides a strong incentive for many organisations to organise and certify themselves as bodies. The third major innovation of the bill relates to tax incentives, tax exemptions and tax relief. With citizens' donations not to be taxed, we expect both activation and transparency to be allowed in the functioning of organisations. At the same time, the development of corporate social responsibility actions in the private sector is encouraged. Another important regulation concerns the provision of regular government subsidies not more than 40% of the budget of an organisation. We are thus protecting the public interest of these organisations and preventing them from operating effectively in terms of public rationality. A special position is finally the coverage of the voluntary offer, both legislative and insurance, with citizens and organisations being encouraged to take part and to take joint action. We therefore conclude both the imperative and the long-term nature of this draft law. A draft imperative, because the organised civil society must at last operate in an environment that requires itself: the organisational, coherent and clear. One more long-term plan. The creation of a culture of integrity, transparency and accountability, the development of policies that favour the civil society over the long term, as well as the strengthening of citizens' confidence in these bodies are objectives which serve in this draft law. I conclude my introduction, ladies and gentlemen, with a reference which does not fall within the core of the draft law, but concerns the Ministry of the Interior and the organisation of local government. In Kefalonia the municipalities resulting from the fragmentation of the former single municipality of Kefalonia are faced with a number of challenges. The problematic institutional legacy left us by SYRIZA - ANEL, including in the structure of local government in our country, does not allow us to deviate from the debt we have undertaken. The debt to support our municipalities and citizens in Kefalonia and Ithaca to function smoothly and unrelentingly after the violent and unorganised breakdown that suffered as a municipality of Kefalonias. A breakthrough that in fact proved what we were shouting at the outset was nothing but the last desperation of an unstable government formation to remain in power. Today we cannot doubt that our islands see an ally in the present parliamentary majority in the problems and concerns that arise. We have proven a political leadership that listens carefully to the local communities in Argostoli, Lizori, Sami, Ithaca as requests. I am sure that together we can preserve the achievements and efforts of our fellow citizens at every corner of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our party yesterday carried out with great success and open participation its top process. With the participation of hundreds of thousands of citizens and on the first and second day he elected a new president, Nikos Androylakis, who can best express the unity of the party, ensure the renewal and safeguard its autonomous course. At a difficult juncture with the country in the war of a multiple crisis, the lesson of democracy that once again handed our movement is an offer to upgrade the political and political system. In that sense, I feel the need to make this misappropriation and the referral to the National Representation. I think a more optimistic day starts for us. In the entirely reverse time is the amendment to the transfer of PPE staff to recommended personal positions in EL.AS services. It reveals very strongly that, for the national interest and the rule of law, the draft for the conversion of the National Information Service into a truly party information service is under way. Such group persecution of officials serving in such a critical national security service has never occurred throughout the post-multiple period, except for the three years 1990-1993. In order to complete the implementation of this plan, the Government has recently set up sub-delegation C to the staff of which the staff of the NRA have been transferred from other positions of the NRAs to those who are now violently transferred. It seems, in other words, that a plan for the concentration of unwanted civil servants has been launched at a new sub-direction so that they can be transferred to a non-EEA provision. The second phase of the project, where the vacant posts of the sub-direction will obviously be covered by excellent employees, is also hardened. Thus, for the sake of full party control of the National Intelligence Service, they do not hesitate to undermine the objectives of the Directorate responsible for national security, to defend the democratic culture and, in general, to persecute national interests by effectively persecuting officials with a long time of experience because they do not politically match democratic wishes. Once again, the government reveals that it fully identifies the so-called finally state with the party. Let us hope that no attempt will be made to transform itself into a parastate. However, we need democratic vigilance. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the creation of an institutional framework which regulates how civil society organisations operate and its relationship with the state is not without a modernly developed European state. We also agree on something else. Volunteerism is one of the most valuable goods for human society and puts human beings above all in the centre. Already many years ago, not only since migratory flows started, but even when natural disasters started most strongly, a series of voluntary organisations that made their appearance helped address this problem. Volunteers remind us every day that humanity has not yet been lost, that through unselfish supply and solidarity we can put a small port in a moral and practical position to help people in need. In this general sense it is welcome today's draft law introduced by the Government and we as a Movement of Change we support any attempt to legislate that is intended to deal with ageing pathogens and regulate issues that concern and trouble Greek citizens. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that once again there is no sign of any dialogue with all those directly concerned by the bill. Three hundred civil society organisations with the proposed bill signed a joint declaration in which they massively put the strong concerns of the other side. Their criticism of the bill shows that the Government has not taken into account their comments on critical issues during the consultation process, nor did it discuss self-government, which is demonstrated by the absence of any possibility of linking the new regulatory framework, with the current framework relating to local and regional government. The Minister admitted during the debate that the proposed draft law is only a first step, i.e. it is the principle of regulation of the whole subject, but none of us can see either the middle or the end of this step. The draft law regulates issues that are undoubtedly of particular interest. It is the most recent time in the House for provisions concerning civil society organisations, and now we admit that there is an attempt to tackle organisations which, on the basis of the proposed provisions, will be written in a national register, provided that they are active in one of the six thematic areas provided for in the draft law. Indeed, the Civil Society has so far been organised in various directions and objects. In order to meet all the needs, a great many registries have been set up in various Ministries, where the conditions for registration and the rights arising from it vary, as well as overlap with the registries proposed in today's bill. The main issue therefore arises in the transitional provisions of the proposed draft law. While, as stated, the objective is very important, the single register which will deal with the phenomenon of division, will eventually be abolished when and when the relevant Minister decides. Maybe sometime, maybe even when. Rather, what is being created is a framework that is not a framework. We believe that the elements of the existing registers should automatically be transferred to the new register as soon as its operation begins and then contact the representatives of the organisations to complete the documents required to complete the registration. The new register must start to function as soon as the old ones are abolished and a reasonable transitional period must be given to complete the registration if necessary. Otherwise, it will not be a register that abolishes the phenomenon of multitude, but another register that comes to be added to the long list of registers already in existence. As to the most important issue concerning the concept of transparency and accountability, there is a reasonable error that is constantly repeated. When we check the integrity of an economic transaction, we obviously need to keep an eye on both sides. In the hypothetical case where a Civil Society organisation acts in a fraudulent manner and manages to get the members of the economic benefit, through state funding, the insurance margins to be created are on the management side. We must not create a greater administrative burden indiscriminately for organisations. The common demand of all the competent bodies is to simplify procedures without bureaucracy and time-consuming procedures. The definition of State funding is then incomplete. To have a picture, we need to know in detail which bodies can finance and who are subject to the new process. Indeed, a ceiling does not exist. The amount depends on what the financial institution will decide in accordance with the rules of the financial institution. Therefore, the new address that will be set up, while calling for budgets and accounts, will not act as an audit mechanism, but will have a mere recording function, and that is not right. For the purposes of Article 8(2), almost all operators have requested the reassessment of this provision, concerning the possibility that the new address may seek an own-initiative certificate from a criminal record, from which it will be shown that no member of the administrative bodies of a particular civil society organisation has been convicted of a crime or offence on theft, misappropriation, fraud and so on. We are not opposed to economic crime. However, this prevents an essential function offered by the organisations, that of contributing to the reintegration process of people who have once been offended. A further specialization in this area would be important. And one last very brief comment and I am done, Madam President. It is this custom of the government to bring out articles of consultation, which constitute a separate bill. Here are too many articles in other provisions that do not concern the central issue dealt with by the bill and have not been subject to any consultation and concern very important functions of local government. Whether referred to in Article 32 that regulates issues of the selection of senior organic units, in grade IAs, or refers to issues related to the staff of the local government development agencies that we do not agree or refer to a level 1 budget arrangement or to the expenditure of municipalities or to the removal of other responsibilities from municipal councils to the Economic Committee. For us all these issues are a violation of the basic rules which constitute a democratic function of local government. And we believe that they cannot come in such a way, badly as transitional provisions of a bill that could be a completely different bill and that there is a real debate at last. Let's see, let's see if the structure you've decided with your legislation and after the laws that SYRIZA has done for the operation of the Local Government agencies have rendered, where they haven't rendered and facilitated the creation of municipal councils with decisive powers, so that the government has a sense of both the control of finances and the control of the budget. In other words, it cannot sign the city council without discussing the report of the Economic Commission for next year's budget. It is the basic function of the municipalities, which the municipal council must effectively control, to decide and approve. I am saying all this because this legislation that continues to be bad, it continues to be rough, it continues to be fragmentary, it continues to be emblematic, it comes badly into the bills as separate, legal and other provisions. This cannot help the functioning of the institutions, and I must say that there is a democratic issue in the end, and for Parliament too, how this government legislates.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Petsas, Deputy Minister for the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wanted to give a reply to the parliamentary representative, Mr Scandalidis. The other provisions are provisions of a bill from the Ministry of Interior. And, of course, local government issues concern the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u261	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u262	So what's the bad legacy? Didn't a number of articles deal with such matters come to the body of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u263	No consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u264	On this occasion I would like to say that all these issues have been discussed with the CEDEFOP for too long. I don't see any kind of bad legacy. They are provisions of the Ministry of Interior in a bill from the Ministry of Interior. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u265	Me too, Minister. Mr Eleftherios Economou, State Secretary for Civil Protection, has the floor to be placed on his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is now an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Civil Protection, which concerns the responsibilities of the Greek police and the General Secretariat of the Anti-Criminal Policy, and which contains ten articles, the reasoning of which will then be summarised. Article 1 authorises the Finance and Civil Protection Ministers to grant compensation to members of the committees responsible for carrying out the health examinations and athletics and psychology tests in the process of recruiting staff to fill the posts of the ICM Sectors Keepers and ICM Personnel Guards of the Booking Stores. The Committees are deemed necessary to operate both beyond their working hours and during weekends, given the large number of candidates' requests for the filling of the posts of the ICM Keepers and ICM Personnel Guards of the Booking Stores. The members of these committees are not paid for the services provided outside hours due to the lack of explicit authorization, and this loophole is called upon to cover the proposed regulation, since these procedures are urgently necessary to move forward, to recruit staff, so that we can actually strengthen this area of external security which is known to all of you how subordinated it is. Article 2 aims to resolve procedural issues and harmonise with the rules on compensation for FRONTEX in order to ensure the necessary flexibility to fulfil the obligations of the Greek Police in respect of the required staff contribution to the Permanent Body of the European Border and Coast Guard and to avoid any further financial burden on the public. Article 3 provides for the settlement of issues of training, training of personnel in Category 1 of the Permanent Corps of the European Border and Coast Guard in matters of weaponry and shooting. Article 4 regulates financial uncertainties of the Special Entity of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Civil Protection relating to expenditure relating to night work beyond the 50th day, Saturday, of the employees of the detention stores falling under the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy in the period from 2016 to 2020. It is therefore possible to repay the above costs which have not been consolidated as a result of an untimely undertaking of the undertaking in question. Restoration of an injustice incurred in the previous years from 2016 until today due to non-payment of compensation due for work provided by employees of detention stores as a result of an untimely commitment of the obligation in those years. It recommends a move that will make a decisive contribution to ensure that there is no climate of insecurity among the officials working in detention stores and continuing to carry out their duties. To conclude, it is worth emphasising that this legislative initiative, in addition to the payment of legitimate remuneration due to officials in the detention stores in the country, is also a government intervention that will make a significant contribution to strengthening the morality of the human resources that it serves in these structures. This must be assessed in particular in the light of the particular conditions of the pandemic, but also of the extremely low number of staff currently serving in detention stores as a result of a targeted policy of despoiling those prison structures that took place before the 19th elections, which actually makes the conditions and in particular the working hours of those who are serving exhaustively, depriving them of long periods of rest, permits and other such guaranteed rights. Article 5 regulates financial outstandings of the Special Entities of the Ministry of Civil Protection managed by the Hellenic Police, which relate to the period from 2019 until the publication of this Regulation and relate to the expenditure of those Special Entities, which have been carried out or are mainly carried out in order to cover emergencies, imperatives and emergencies. This makes it possible to repay expenditure incurred and carried out by bodies of the Ministry of Civil Protection from 2019 until the publication of the present, which was not consolidated, although there was a commitment decision. With Article 6, in relation to the functioning of the electronic surveillance institution for the period from 1-1-2020 to 31-12-2021 until the start of the procedures for the emergence of a new contractor and respect for the fundamental rights of those who have already been subject to that convict and sub-judicial procedure, it makes it necessary to make the proposed arrangement, which shall be incorporated, cleared and the outstanding expenditure shall be paid, in accordance with the previously existing costing, for the pilot implementation of the electronic surveillance system as compensation to the budgetary credits of the General Secretariat of the Civil Service, by way of derogation from all general and specific provisions, provided that it is covered by the approved budget appropriations for the corresponding years in order to proceed smoothly to an international tender for the appointment of a new contractor. In Article 7, the assessed provision seeks to ensure the fiscal continuity of the said legal person, as well as of all areas of the subsidiary insurance sector for the years 2008 to 2014, and this arrangement is considered absolutely necessary in order to settle the outstandings existing from the past and to continue its normal and orderly functioning by the EBRD. Article 8 regulates the question of the elections of the institutions and the representatives of the trade unions of the Greek Police so that they can be elected by a single ballot including all candidates. With the proposed regulation, the procedure for the election of the institutions and of the representatives of the trade unions is quicker, simpler the voting, free and more representative, and in line with the specific nature of the staff member. At the same time, the procedures for the unions that took place in the elections or those which are to take place in the next few years are not affected, given that the time is given and that they are prepared, but also the power will be from the next elections of each club. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 seeks to strengthen the human resources of the Greek Police by transferring experienced civilian personnel to it with the necessary expertise in areas related to its mission, such as the collection and analysis of information on the prevention of threats to individuals and groups. With the transfer of employees, the security services of the Greek Police are directly upgraded, so that the security services of EL.AS. to be upgraded and more capable and effective in addressing with greater adequacy of threats and challenges in the field of internal security. This is a considerable and experienced staff, which would take a great deal of time to obtain the services of the Hellenic Republic. by other procedures. I would also like to point out that this transfer of staff will have no impact on the remuneration and rights that it has had up to now in the EEA. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the national security of the country protects it both from the National Information Service and to the maximum extent in the field of internal security, and with this provision we are essentially seeking to improve the overall service of national security in addition. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, a number of malfunctions are being treated and a large number of issues are resolved in the direction of more efficient operation of the structures and services of the Ministry of Civil Protection. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Parliamentary spokesman has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u268	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u269	You are not a parliamentary representative, you will allow me to say. Parliamentary representatives are ahead of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u270	For questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u271	For questions, yes. Mr Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am frankly speaking to you, I did not expect you, who have financed many years in Greek Police and, in particular, Chief, to be able to connect the National Intelligence Agency and the officials of this office to the people who perform the security work in the security departments, to the security addresses of the Greek Police. No relationship with each other. Is it possible for you to bring people out - just to say, as the Greek people say - and give them north, people who have served in critical national positions? But many of them except the evaluation sheets where they have an excellent “10” are studied for other things. You know very well that there are people who have served as agents, they are "skies", they are people who neither their own families know they were serving at the National Intelligence Service. And you're pulling them out of the service on what grounds? On the grounds that they must manipulate the Security Directorates. But can you do that? I'm going to tell you a simple example. Mylonakis or someone who was up to yesterday an agent at the National Intelligence Agency, studying Israel, studying other information services in other countries - and you know that, we both know it, where these people are going and studying, who have their own informants - we go to a security department in a police department. How to deal with these people first, the police will treat them. Police officers know what they're gonna say? Just say it: "Find the chimpanzees, the rats who came here, to give us information or to watch." That's the simple question that anyone could ask. Secondly, you are raising up an entire sub-address, which you made a year ago and which deals with collecting national information and taking them to the security departments. It has nothing to do with the security department of the Greek Police. He could have been with the Fifth S.O.D. address. There yes, they are interconnected, because there is information, analysis of information and non-information sent to the departments. I think, Minister, that you should think about it very well, twice and three times. You destroy them, you destroy the address. If you want to recruit staff, your people, you can do them. The National Intelligence Department has seven hundred thirty people. If you take fifty or a hundred more, you won't say anything if we need them. But you can't use people that the other Intelligence Services "freeze" their relationship with the service when they don't need them - and you know the reasons, they're understandable - and give them a great deal of help to anyone who can say that he was there and he was like that. Can I tell you the other one? Do you know how many things they know?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u274	I shall conclude, Madam President. You know very well how much classified information these people know. Think of starting to leak such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, too. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor for a minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Madam President. It is not a question, because it has ten verses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u277	But you asked me a question, Mr. Comrade, didn't you? Because I told you that your parliamentary representative can take the floor if he wants to be put.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u278	Of course, Madam President. Minister, as far as verse four are concerned, is it for the penitentiary officials, or is it just for a shop? Because what we're learning is that this is just a shop, and it's probably about Domokos. As regards paragraph 5: What are the financial provisions - mainly supplies - services, loose ends and why has the legal procedure not been followed? Who's in charge? It's about EL.S. As far as verse 6 is concerned, you confirm the complaints we made, but confirm and whether it is the specific company we denounced, which in 2014 was the current commander of the NSA. I don't know who he is then, but he's really stirring up a lot of suspicions. Article 6 is a very grey zone. And the question is: What do you do for two and a half years? Why don't you have a competition? So many assignments have been made by Mrs Nicholas to the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy. Why don't you run a competition for two and a half years? If you have ever seen such payment received and paid by law a service that has no contract and which has been consulted by the Legal Council of State that it is illegal to pay, I would like you to present it to me all these years from your experience. And I come to verse seven. If you want the police unions to be decoupled, why don't you put a one-stop shop and put 30% on it? Set a monastarian if your real goal is to be colonization rather than to eliminate every voice against the Mitsotakis government, and from the right trade unionists. Also, as far as verse 10 is concerned, why do not institutionalise a corresponding service in EL.A., after taking these people from the EEA to take them to EL.A. And you tell us that he needs them. You have not made a structure, no structure is foreseen. Take these people from the NSA and take them to the EL. You may then put them in traffic anywhere. Even purposes may put people who have handled critical national issues. Why don't you make a transfer notice? See who they want. Why? I want a confirmation of this because a complaint has been made and we have not been answered by the government. Have you submitted a presidential decree providing exceptional recruitment to the NSA, like special guards? Again party recruitments to the NSA, the National Intelligence Agency? Finally, what kind of personal is it that's being transferred? What does this unit have in mind in the NSA? To learn from the National Representation, to understand the approach of June until today the liquidation of the "pop Mitsotakis barbaros" at the National Intelligence Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I would like the floor before the Minister, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u280	Yes, sir. Minister, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u281	Minister, a question which Mr Spirtz has asked was actually raised by Mr Scandalidis before. With regard to Article 5, there is an opinion of Section IV of the Legal Council of State, which has responded to these questions. Of course it is not compulsory, as we know, for the Ministry to accept the opinions. Is this amendment accompanied, however, by a legal opinion? Because the Legal Council of State said that this convention has expired and the expenditure, which is supposed to have been incurred in 2020 and which you now come to legalise by law, cannot therefore be paid. He also states that if the contractor wants to be paid off for the jobs he has done, he can go to court, as is obvious. That is what the opinion of the Legal Council of the State says. Is there any opinion from a body, a lawyer, the Ministry or any other reason why you are bringing the payment of this contract into law and why is the Legal Council of State not right? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u282	Mr Minister, you have the floor to give the necessary clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u283	I will be very brief, Mr President. As far as the issues of alternative storage are concerned, the well-known bracelet and so forth, you know very well that this is a matter for which I think the whole of the whole of Parliament is in agreement. As far as the alternative forms of detention are concerned, we have made an effort to explore this and, as I have said, we are resolving issues and unfinished issues from the past and, in any case, there is going to be an international competition in order to be a new contractor and to enter into a normality in this regard. However, with regard to the issues of transfer - because you mentioned parts of safety, but also the possibility of being placed on traffic services or on anything else - I would really like to pay close attention to the specific provisions, since it is clearly stated that they are placed on safety services and, indeed, the possibility is also provided before they are placed by the Hellenic Police Headquarters to state and where they want to. You know very well that the large security services need very specific and qualified staff, staff trained in secret action, in infiltration issues, in matters of analysis and information collection, and in fact the work of security services that is supported by this staff - as I have stressed before - is vitally upgraded. We would like to take a great deal of time to recruit and train staff and get to that level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, too. Mr Papaliou has the floor now from SYRIZA and immediately after Mr Kotrias Georgios from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly because the Secretary-General of Civil Protection said that the transfer of staff from this sub-direction to the services of the Greek Police which exercise public and state security powers, I would stress that this does not result from Article 10 of the amendment. It is stated specifically that they are being transferred in particular to them. The 'particularly' means that they may be translated elsewhere. Although that is not the case, the essence is that the 'final' state of Mr.Mitsotakis is a party state and an authoritarian state seeking to collect information about the so-called 'internal enemy', that is, for those who react to the neoliberal policy of the New Democracy. And now I come to the bill. Volunteerism includes elements such as solidarity, selfless tender, spontaneousity without second thought and cannot be directed. It manifests itself in the activity of civil society, which is involved in the conduct of policies in various areas: in the areas of social and welfare policy, migration-refugee, racial violence, and not just in aid in cases of natural disasters, namely civil protection, as well as in environmental and human rights policies. The action of civil society is organised and collectively exercised. Civil society organisations need a single institutional framework for the registration, registration and, of course, their funding by the state. This ensures transparency, good administration and accountability. However, with the present draft law, the activation and exploitation of civil society, I would say that it remains a matter of urgency, since the functioning and actions of its organisations are fragmented, procedural, management and not in the direction of rationalisation and simplification of procedures. The development of the new institutional framework should be initiated by mapping out all existing registers that are scattered and, in addition, coexistence, interconnection, so that interoperability and ultimately abolishing them and replacing them from a single register, so that there are no overlaps that exist today and which will continue to exist under this draft law. The bill creates a new structure in the Ministry of Interior and two new registers, the public database and the special register, with the result that there are confusion and duplications. The public is charged with additional bureaucracy and structures. The special registers shall not be interconnected. It could be done, I repeat, without the creation of the new database and the special register, so that we do not need to re-entry the organisations into the new registers. Furthermore, a high paradox is foreseen to be paid for registration in the new register, contrary to what is done with existing registers. The criteria for the organisations to be financed are their entry in the two registers of the Ministry of Interior. That's a standard criterion. There are no fundamental criteria on the basis of which these organisations would be assessed in order to be financed by the State. Therefore, provision should be made for the evaluation of the action and work of civil society organisations, on the basis of which they would be financed and not be enough to register the Ministry of Interior. The effectiveness and effectiveness of the actions carried out by the institution in the previous period, the number of actions implemented by category of action, as well as its interventions and the social impact, should be assessed. In addition, it needs administrative and economic adequacy, so that these bodies can carry out their work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now a comment on voluntary employment. The main issue remains the development of appropriate security controls so as not to attempt to invoke labour legislation in such a way as to conceal forms of dependent work, apprenticeship, vocational training and skills. We therefore need a strong institutional framework that excludes all such forms of work, since it is voluntary. The obligations of civil society organisations include the announcement of volunteers in the ‘ERGAN’ system. This regulation, precisely because it does not question employment, is problematic. The particular nature of the volunteering and the liquidity of the volunteer's capacity, which is not always stable in relation to an institution, are not taken into account since it can only be engaged on an exceptional basis or for a specific action. Finally, the difficulties in implementing the draft law are reflected in the fact that four months are foreseen after its publication in the Official Journal of the Government, while the articles relating to the operation of the control mechanism will apply a whole year thereafter. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the planned arrangements instead of facilitating, preventing the setting up of new organisations, but also the sustainability of small new ones. The nature and characteristics of most civil society organisations operating in our country are not taken into account, and the small and medium-sized organisations abroad are those that tend to prevail.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u286	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u287	Great administrative and financial burdens are therefore introduced, excluding a large part of organised initiatives and organisations from their entry in the special register.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u288	Finish it, Mr. Papaliou. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u289	I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, there is no provision for the interconnection of volunteering with local government and for cooperation with its bodies, while centralisation in government policies is reflected in the provision of authorisation of the Interior Minister to regulate essential issues by adopting ministerial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, too. Mr Kotrias has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law deals with and regulates a very complex subject, setting out the conditions for volunteering, this movement of humanity and unselfish offering, to be part of a structured legislative and institutional framework. Volunteerism affects and is functionally linked to today and tomorrow of the Greek society and is, at the same time, an indicator and a measure of its culture. However, the absence of a regulatory framework in Greece ranks it among countries with the lowest rates of volunteering in Europe, with less than 10%. But the legislative and institutional organisation of volunteering in Greece is also a step closer to a society of solidarity and humanity that we dream about tomorrow. It is the prerequisite that Greeks' innate kindness and offer remain not only a good intention, but also a systematic social action. With this conviction, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago I was honoured, as Mayor of Lamia, to organise the 1st Pan-Hellenic Volunteer Conference with the CEDEFOP and the Lamites Municipality, with speakers from Europe and from all the scientific spectrum, in essence by establishing the institutional organisation of volunteerism in our country. And let me put forward his minutes - I believe it is useful to study the evolution of the institution in our country. [[At this point Mr Georgios Kotrias presents for the Minutes the above minutes, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Twenty years later, as a Member, I had the honour of proposing in February 2020 the National Crisis Management Mechanism and the upgrading of the Civil Protection Volunteer System, where in Chapter B, entitled "Successful Organisations and Civil Protection Volunteers", in a number of articles, the conditions for integration and operation in Voluntary Civil Protection Organisations are detailed. Today, I am particularly pleased that I have the opportunity in my current position - in favour of this bill, to participate in the substantial strengthening and support of civil society organisations and the entire voluntary movement of the country, so that it will become more powerful, more organised and provide effective and secure services to society as a whole, especially in view of the fact that, in the last decade, volunteering in Greece is giving a stable presence through the offer to our most vulnerable citizens. With this bill, the Ministry of Home Affairs is attempting for the first time a single set of issues relating to voluntary non-profit organisations operating in Greece and on voluntary employment within and outside the country, in order to restore chronic pathogens that have reached the point even to tarnish the image of the voluntary movement, to create a secure and independent environment for the development of reliable organisations and, ultimately, to strengthen citizens' confidence in public institutions and especially in volunteers. Part I of the bill regulates issues relating to the registration, registration and funding of voluntary organisations in Greece, in order to ensure transparency, sound management and accountability. In particular, two public electronic databases are created in the Ministry of Interior, the public database on the free registration of all civil society organisations and the special register on which organisations fulfilling specific conditions for transparency and accountability are registered, so that the necessary household of the nine different registries that are currently maintained in different ministries and remain unconnected with each other is finally made, thus making it difficult for organisations to coordinate and control procedures. The new Department of the Interior Ministry will be responsible for administering and interconnecting these bases, which is set up to monitor the proper organisation and functioning of voluntary organisations. At the same time, it defines the possibility of state funding for these organisations, up to EUR 50,000 for those registered on the public basis and with an unlimited amount for those registered in the special register, while, of course, the obligations of the organisations for sound financial management are laid down, as are the penalties imposed on them not to comply with them and which are not other than their deletion from the special register, at the same time as state funding. In addition, tax exemptions and incentives are introduced for donations of public interest, while the voluntary movement is strengthened, since there is now provision for the possibility of lawyers, notaries, engineers, etc. to offer their services to voluntary bodies without a fee. Another very important part that regulates this bill is about defending the rights of the thousands of volunteers in our country. Voluntary employment in voluntary organisations, the legal status of volunteers and their insurance cover are regulated by its provisions, which are essential for volunteers over the years. Since participation in a voluntary activity and the provision of work poses risks of fines by the Labour Inspectorate, the draft law provides for the protection of volunteers and voluntary organisations by using the ‘ERGANIS’ electronic application and the registration and disclosure of volunteers for as long as they are employed voluntarily. At the same time, it is planned to cover health and hospital expenditure, as well as costs arising from their voluntary employment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that with this draft law and after Law 4662/2020, which includes upgrading the Civil Protection Volunteers system, the effort in our country is essentially completed in order to form a clear, structured regulatory framework in the relations between the State and the Civil Society. It is an initiative that is absolutely necessary to clarify the ambiguity that exists to date in order to ensure the proper functioning of the Civil Society Organisations and, finally, to achieve their original goal for the benefit of our country and for the benefit of its people and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u292	Thank you too, Mr. Kotroya. I will now give the Deputy Minister for the Interior three minutes to support the amendment, with a general number of 1171 and a specialist of 114 from 10 December, on the subject of 'Agreements on matters of responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior'. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. With this amendment, we in these articles regulate a number of issues that we have discussed at times with local government agencies in particular. The provisions of Article 1 extend the period of application of Article 238 of Law No 4610/2019 for those Chambers which failed to respond in time to the adoption of a decision to transfer the staff of their urban companies. The favourable regulation for reasons of equality and justice shall also apply to officials recruited by the civil companies of the Chambers by 30 June 2021. Article 2 provides the possibility for the South Aegean PGIs S.A. and Ionian Islands S.A. to meet their immediate needs for staff in order to enable them to function immediately on this important issue of waste management. Paragraph 14 of Article 12 of Law 4071/2012 had established that the total amount of the fixed-term private contract and lease of a project concluded by the grades A and B and the legal persons governed by public and private law and related to the provision of services to beneficiaries by the payment of a fee, 70 % is paid by the beneficiaries and the remaining 30% by the relevant LGD or legal person. Given the circumstances and the pandemic, we are adjusting this figure, which is now 60% from the publication of the present until 30 June 2023. The rules laid down in Article 4 for reasons of the orderly functioning of the services and the protection of the manager are designed to complete the transfer procedures which have not been completed within the exclusive time limits provided for in Article 20(10) of Law No 4829/2021, so as to ensure both the service needs and the staff members, without the fault of which they could not be transferred to the services for which they had already submitted their applications in the course of time. Furthermore, it is foreseen that only transfers for which the competent collective bodies have already decided from the date of entry into force of Article 20 of Law 4829/2021 until the proposed arrangement enters into force have been completed, when the adoption of the relevant transfer decision is pending. The provision of Article 5 regulates the issue of the performance in support of cases of offences under Law 4830/2021 of pro-zootic unions and non-profit-making pro-zootic organisations active at local or national level until the entry into service of the National Register of Pets. I inform you that the relevant Joint Ministerial Decision is to be completed and adopted. The rated arrangement referred to in Article 6 shall be granted with retroactive effect from 1 August 2021 for mayors to extend the term of office of their Vice-Presidents for a period of less than the year by way of derogation from Article 59 of Law 3852/2010 in order to facilitate the work and operation of the competent bodies and bodies until the day of bilateral meetings, i.e. the election of presidencies of municipal councils on Sunday 9 January 2022. The rated provision of Article 7 is amended by the transitional provisions of Law 4804/2021 and legislative improvements are made since there are no additional presidents in municipal communities with a population equal to or less than three hundred, but candidates in the order of their election. In addition, the incorrect provision received from the City Council in the absence of a substitute, as a member of a vacant council or municipal community, shall be supplemented by an advisor to another municipal community or municipal advisor from the current municipal period. In addition, arrangements are made to remove any legal and interpretative doubts concerning current municipal blockages and incompatibilities in the municipalities. Finally, a period shall be specified for the establishment and term of office of the elected representatives and of the Presidencies of the boards and committees, as well as the time for the elections to be held by the Presidencies of the Councils and Committees of the current self-government period. Article 8 aims to clarify the framework of a procedure for selecting heads of staff who have been Heads of State or Government with responsibility for the ATTs to which they have been seconded, and have already held positions of responsibility in their institution of origin. Finally, the purpose of Article 9 is to settle the time for submitting the initial declaration referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 1(2) of Law 3213/2003 by the Secretary-General and the Director-General of the Ministries. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, too, Minister. Is there any clarification from the rapporteurs? Mr Hatzigiannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u295	I haven't taken the floor, so I'm gonna put the matter down. I have a question for Article 2 of the amendment. Why is the selection of thirty-six months? The main question and objection is why the thirty-six months are chosen for private-law employment relationships for these contracts, since obviously the three years cover permanent and permanent needs, and even given that the European directive defines non-permanent positions in fact with a maximum of twenty-four months. Why do you choose thirty six months? That is our first question. And secondly, how were the seats chosen? Because at least for one South Aegean FVO it seems too great that we have already been decided by the network of solid waste management bodies which is complaining about this provision. We understand that they're new GLOBALs. We don't live in another reality. It is these two things, the number of workers and the fact that it is not actually taking place - and I think that for twenty-four months it is too long for them to be - an SAAP and the new law that you have tabled and which will be in line with the European directive. Why, then, were the thirty - six months chosen? With regard to Article 8, may I ask the staff of the development agencies if, in the event of the transfer of an official to a management post or a liability position to the development organisation by any of the ATFs or the State that is not in its existing position, will the time of his or her duties be due to the development organisation, will it also entail all the privileges to the institution from which he comes? So a simple employee of an address or department will be transferred, taken a responsibility to the development agency and returned with privileges? Because that - we do not know - will change the whole structure of the services completely and we do not think it is in line with public service law. This is to tell us whether or not it is only true of the existing ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u296	Minister, would you like to give clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u297	Shall we give now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u298	You can also look after yourself in your speech. We're continuing with Mrs. Gara. And soon after Mr. Psychogios is ready. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Petsas, I am pleased to see you, strong, active in parliamentary activity and activity, and we expect you to be seen in the committee of inquiry, too, and to give us answers and clarification as to your direct involvement in the formation of the Petsa homonymous list, which was financed by state money. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have too many questions to ask you, too many questions and your presence there would be very useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u300	Come to the point, please. It's out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u301	So in the bill we are debating today, concerning volunteering, registration, registration and funding of voluntary organisations set up in Greece as unions or non-governmental organisations. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 382-384]] The action, ladies and gentlemen, of civil society organisations has a long tradition, a path and a dynamic one in our country. And especially in times of crisis such as those that our society has experienced in recent years, volunteers are well aware that they have a huge contribution and will have a huge contribution and a necessity for society and will also be for the next few years. What is lacking over time is a coherent, modern plan, a national long-term strategy for the organisation of the institutional framework and the effective interconnection of organisations with the state. And today, unfortunately, we are seeing another opportunity lost with this bill. That is also the point which the hundred voluntary organisations involved in the consultation of this bill emphatically highlight. No efficiency, no rationalisation, no design despite the necessity for all of this. You are therefore bringing in, Minister, a bill which in practice is inappropriate. That is why you refer to the application of basic provisions in the future. A bill which, instead of clarifying and setting clear uniform rules, contains ambiguities and creates greater bureaucratic difficulties. A bill, instead of using existing registers of organisations and trying to unify them, by removing any overlap and by setting strict safeguards, comes to create two new registers, causing confusion and questions as to the evaluation of organisations that will receive state funding. Overall, the bill with its content and bureaucratic and financial contingencies is almost deterring the creation of new organisations or the development of the smaller ones that exist today. You are well aware of the reality that the vast majority of active organisations want to be small in size and employ up to 10 employees. It is no accident, after all, that high-level offenders are expected to be paid in writing or renewing it, which creates a great financial burden especially on the small organisations that - as I have said before - are the majority of organisations operating in our country. Even in the provisions of the draft law on tax exemptions or other favourable tax provisions, these concern only those organisations which are registered in the newly established special register, which will lead to greater exclusion in the future. Is it possible, for example, to set as a prerequisite for the integration of organisations into the Special Register their three-year-old recommendation? Do you not realize that this is how you rule out all newly established organisations which are actually doing a good job and have obviously been a social need for them to be set up in the past few months or in the past few years? Unless the blockade of newly established organisations has been your goal from the outset. They could, of course, have set different criteria, which would also serve transparency, but they would not lead to a priori blockade. In addition, a serious omission is that the bill does not make any provision for linking volunteerism and local government organisations. Unfortunately, we are discussing another piece of legislation in the New Democracy, a fragmentary, superficial, biased in favour of the major and economically powerful NGOs, which instead of hitting bureaucracy, is increasing it while it is not moving in the logic of serving principles, such as transparency, sound management, accountability, but leading to further exclusion. Mr. Pecha, in terms of transparency and transparent functions, there's probably some allergy to what you're taking. The blurred points therefore, the lack of strict criteria for the funding of organisations, but also the lack of rules of operation, at best, create doubts as to the integrity of this regulation on the part of the government and its effectiveness. It is a bill which, unfortunately, does not respond to the real problems and needs of voluntary organisations, which has highlighted with observations and suggestions almost all of the organisations that have participated in the consultation. As far as we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the second part of the bill and the other provisions relating to the Local Government agencies are, in fact, a separate bill within the existing legislation on volunteering, a practice which, of course, is not today. It tends to be the rule from the ultimate state of the current government. With the exception of a few provisions regulating loose ends, especially in the municipality's finances, you are actually bringing arrangements, such as Article 50, which in practice weaken municipal councils further, with the power to appoint a municipal representative at the general assemblies of public limited companies and development agencies to go to the Economic Committee. Once again in New Democracy you show your allergy to collective democratic processes, weakening even further the collective organs, which are legitimized by the popular base, such as those of municipal councils. Minister, the mayors ask you to increase the funding and the CFP, strengthen the municipalities with new recruitments, reduce the loan rates from the Deposit Fund, cover the huge energy costs in the operation of the municipalities, reduce the municipal fees, as well as the effective involvement of OTAs in the development and exploitation of financial tools. And you, unfortunately, do nothing about all this. You care once again about the real problems of the municipalities, but also of local communities. Mr President, I should like to close by not mentioning the scandalous amendment tabled by the government at midnight, which concerns the clearance of hundreds - not likeless to the Mitsotakis - of the National Intelligence Service, with their compulsory movement to various departments of the Greek Police. These are expulsions and unprecedented cleansings in public administration by a government which we really wonder what it wants to do. Turning the place back decades in dark seasons of filing, persecution, certificate of mind? We really wonder what exactly he wants to do in Greek society. But be sure that the democratic world, the progressive citizens, with modern and active thought and action, will in no way allow this government to turn us back decades and in the dark times of the 1950s and 60s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that sixteen SYRIZA Members, pursuant to Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, have tabled a request for a roll-call vote on the amendment, with a general number of 1170 and a specialist of 113 from 10 December 2021, to the draft law. The vote will take place tomorrow, shortly before the start of the debate on the budget, which will take place at 5.30 p.m. Today, then, the rapporteurs and special speakers will vote on the bill at first, in the articles and in the second amendment, on 1171, and tomorrow, Amendment 1170 will be passed and the bill as a whole. The text of the request for the roll-call vote is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start from today, on the seventy-eight-year anniversary of the Kalavryan Holocaust and the execution of more than a thousand inhabitants, without any response to the compensation and the corrections so far by Germany. So we say again fascism and the crimes it brings and we ask for the restoration of the historical memory, but also the claims of the country that remain indiscriminate. The bill you enter in plenary today discusses in indirect, partly or at all the real issues facing voluntary organisations. It does not really take steps towards rationalisation and the effective interconnection of the multiple registries of organisations, which are currently being observed in the relevant ministries, as it stands. Yes to regulation, not to shrink civil society organisations, the organisations themselves say. Nor does it respond to the constant request to simplify procedures and reduce bureaucracy. Two new registers are set up, without guaranteeing the interconnection with existing registers and creating additional bureaucratic burdens for organisations that cannot be followed in many cases. And that is the main problem, that this bill was formulated with larger organisations in mind, while in Greece the vast majority of active civil society organisations are small and medium-sized organisations, with a small number of workers, Minister. But that doesn't surprise me. This is a fixed your tactic and a fixed your choice in all areas. You are favouring all the few and strong, from the supermarket chains to the clinical authorities, up to the major traders of agricultural products, up to large organisations, which operate in various sectors, but also in the refugee field, you are excluded from serious small organisations of the field - from the register we made, SYRIZA - and you are giving millions of NGO ghosts that are made overnight to run serious programs, such as "EXTIA". What about the COMPAs? They're all unpaid. They have not received what they are entitled to do in the social and solidarity economy that we have introduced. Volunteerism, moreover, is at risk of turning your bill into a cover for a work relationship eventually. Voluntary offering for us is translated as an unselfish and systematic offer, mainly to support those who have been on the margin from state policies. Of course, an offer that the State will not replace in its basic obligations concerning fundamental rights for all and non-discriminatory. A characteristic example of uninsured ones. By 2016 - 2017, they operated social medicine throughout Greece, with huge care needs. When the law of SYRIZA came, most of them suspended their function - or at least the great needs for treatments - because then all the uninsured people went to the health system, those who today exclude you from prescribing private doctors. That's what you're doing. Of course, there are provisions on citizenship, where income criteria - which are, in fact, the main cause of the rejection and exclusion of thousands of people - remain and you only give one facility in a few cases to be able to catch this limit, after the time the application is lodged, until they have decided to give an examination. Instead of changing this income criterion, which is cut and does not catch 50% of the Greeks at the moment, 80% is being rejected and we come with the economic crisis and unemployment of the previous years to tell some who are twenty and thirty years in Greece that 'You will be excluded. You're not getting citizenship. You will not be able to become an equal citizen of this country." Instead of reducing the huge paradox - and we have also told the timely question recently - which, in a three-member family who applied for is EUR 2.100, is obviously as many as possible to table the application, instead of making a bank of issues that are realistic, modern and based on the basic knowledge of everyday life, living ties, the elementary functioning of the state, you come and what are you doing? You're putting the interview in line now. You're making an attempt to reduce her, but you're making it even worse. You make the right choice, when there are any, you say, doubts about the criteria that are being taken and you leave completely subjective about who will be called by the committees. You keep the paradox high. You leave unrealistic 'cutters' incomes and say that from 2001 onwards all applications are automatically rejected. I understand the backlog, I understand the needs of the services to make cleansing, but it is not possible - and you know it as a lawyer - horizontally, without criteria and without exhaustion of the means we have to do for hundreds or thousands of people. Think again, then, of what is being sent to you and what the organisations are telling you. Make a fair, transparent, functional system for everyone, without exceptions and exclusions, such as what you do. And you know, because your rapporteur referred to the left and its relationship with the state or organisations, the left and its organisations, the movements and active citizens of society as a whole, not just on the left, have offered a lot through the voluntary groups, the solidarity groups, on all fronts. Recent examples of citizens were the ones who saved their villages and their properties, as well as the support that was followed by all over Greece in those areas that were burned. And you didn't do anything. In the natural disasters, then, for the youth that you so permeated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, you, it is well known, do not believe in active civil society. You want a world completely controlled and with the disastrous amendment that you are bringing about the transitions to the NRA and to state services, you want citizens who are afraid of the logic of atomicism, which does not bother you and anyone who survives from there. The law of the jungle. But what do we say - and I close with that, Mr President? That there also need to be organizations in the field, important, active, dynamic, to support the invisible, social issues that are under the radars of the state or state, but to claim, at the same time, massively and collectively and organisedly, their integrated safeguard by the state and the state. We are voting against the bill on the SYRIZA side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyte. Mr. Dionyssis Kalamatianos from SYRIZA has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mrs. Sunday Malama. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, Minister, I understand you are in a difficult position. We are discussing a bill here, but all the interest has focused on the amendment that came. I understand, but what to do. What does this amendment say? I'm starting with Article 6, the last revelation made. A contract was drawn up in 2014 for the surveillance of detainees. The procedure has gone ahead. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its First of all, the question is why you left her to end and did not proceed to legal proceedings. But now you've been trying to pay her for two years. You didn't make it. You asked the Legal Council of the State and the Legal Council of State answered. And what did he say in his opinion in his answer? That this contract cannot be paid, firstly. Secondly, in order to proceed with the process and to pay the company that had provided the services or which would have appealed in court and would have been given a judicial decision to take its money or come to an out-of-court conciliation procedure with a practical act of the Legal Council of State, as laid down in the law. The opinion of the Legal Council of State also stated that you should apply Law 4412 in accordance with the procedures laid down. You're not doing any of this. You bring two years of law, to pay the company, and this company has as legal representative in the 2014 Convention Mr. Kontolones, the Commander of the NSA you appointed in 2019 as the country's governing officer. There must be answers here. All in all, you have to withdraw the amendment, because it has other issues, many issues, such as Article 8 which you are bringing back to the police trade unions, which a month ago and something you had withdrawn. You've brought it back before, and you withdrew it. Same provision. Then we, too, reacted to all the opposition parties, and the police associations also reacted, and you had to withdraw it. Now, just before the House closes and in accordance with the budgetary procedure, you are bringing it back again, with small variations. So you don't fall down on me. You have decided to undermine every institution, every democratic process and every democratic expression. For decades the police have been claiming and gaining the right to uninterrupted and free trade union action. This conquest contributed to the democratisation of the security bodies, the building of a relationship of trust with the citizens and helped to increase the role of the police force. The amendment you are bringing back the policemen to the margins and question their autonomous operation. You are attempting to perpetuate their electoral process and trade union representation. This provision, obviously, is presented by extreme circles, wanting a sub-pilot police, a police that executes blind orders from the political leadership. The legalisation of the single ballot is intended to extremise any minority voice. The aim is to manipulate the police trade union activity. The aim is to barriers and restrictions on democratic voices and criticisms. With this arrangement you undermine the police trade and freedom of expression. You are undermining the existence of progressive voices within the police and voices that will criticise policy being pursued. So you slip on dark paths. It turns out by these behaviors what your vision of the police is. Certainly, however, this vision has nothing to do with a policeman of a modern, European, democratic state. I am also coming to Article 10 of the amendment, which, in essence, provides for the movement of hundreds of members of the National Information Service and you are sending them out of this service. Already your Government has made sure that they are transferred to a special department. Now you're totally pulling them out. You're sending them someone else. What are you practically doing? You leave them uncovered. Who? These people who handled critical national security issues. And why are you doing this? Obviously, to get rid of unwanted and unwanted executives in your Government. And we ask, is such behaviour possible, such divisions between employees of this critical service? Do you divide them into desirable and unwilling ones, whom you are taking care to expel, even, to replace them with others? You have anticipated such recruitment procedures in the NSA. You're kicking them out. Others are coming. Do you play these games with the National Intelligence Service? What is it to conduct such behavior? A party frickin' chip? This service serves the Greek people, the interests of the country and national security, but from the very beginning of your administration you have shown what the disposals are. There was the NSA directly in Maximos, and when your good guy for command didn't have the conditions of the law, what simpler? That's what you do all the time. When it doesn't fit the suit, we change the law. And you changed the law that a few days ago you said you wouldn't change it and changed it to put the one you liked. And who's that? I said it before. The one who signes and the contract for the watch with the bracelets. So, basically, you amputate the NSA, you degrade this critical service, you dissociate this inspiring ability. It is clear that in the face of your micro-political and party pursuits you have been undone for the public interest and jeopardise the security of the country. Your real goal is absolute control of the NSA. But with these practices you know that you are turning the country back decades. You wake up intercepting seasons and what do you want? Citizens' freckles again? Again, each and every one who criticises your policy? Try fingernails and tooths to keep in power. You are using every way to do this, but you have thrown out every cloak of European rule of law. These are not the principles and values of a European state. They have nothing to do with all this. These are manifestations of tough right-wing politics. Repeat practices that have nothing to do with democratic states. The people will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. Ms. Sunday Malama from SYRIZA has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today on the registration and funding of civil society organisations shows the shame of the government to treat the state's institutional relationship with non-governmental organisations. You are trying to bring together the views of your extreme right-wing component, which perceives NGOs as a threat to the state and national security, and your neoliberal component that sees NGOs as a continuation of industrial and logistical benefactors, seeking to abolish the social state and in its place to put private charity. That is why, on the one hand, the Minister of the Interior wants to control NGOs through the bureaucratic register he is building and, on the other hand, wants to extend tax exemptions and facilities for NGOs with a large circle of economic activity and which are managed and managed by significant property. In this existential deadlock of the right comes to add a series of recent events that cause it even greater weakness. We could not forget New Democracy's selective friendships with people who managed the economic affairs of large non-governmental organisations. All of Greece had heard of these in SYRIZA's examination of scandals in health and everyone remembers them very well and everyone knows them very well. We therefore say that we must allow social action to flourish. Civil society organisations, unions, clubs are the healthiest cells in our society. We ask for their support without asterisks. We want in our villages the clubs and organisations to continue to keep our tradition upright, to continue to create the solidarity shield really where the state is stalling. You don't want that. You want to dismantle even the solidarity structures that have been able to consolidate and become institutionalised in their operation. Even those you want to dismantle. That is why you have excluded the workers of "Help at Home" from the allowance granted to health workers. That's what you think. I would now like to come to the question of Article 47 and to quote some information so that the citizens of the Municipality of Aristotle can also hear it. In 2011, by decision of the then Mayor Christos Pachta, certain administrative services of the municipality were transferred from its administrative headquarters to its historic seat. This was clearly done for electoral reasons, given that the services carried are not services which are public service, but services related to the administrative function of the municipality. In 2017 an appeal was made to the Council of State by citizens and bodies on this issue and in 2020 the S.E... It decided clearly that this transfer was illegal, it was against the city's proper functioning, and these services must be reunited with the rest. For one year, the Municipality of Aristotle has not applied the decision of S.A. and today the Minister of Home Affairs is legislating to circumvent the court's decision. I would like to ask a clear question, Minister. Who did you process this provision with? Did a politician or a self-government person dictate her to you? It's a good question, and it needs to be answered. The citizens, however, realised that you are trying to cover your absence from the real problems of the Municipality of Aristotle through recourse to a cheap local issue that no one is interested in anymore. We tell you clearly: If you want to strengthen the services of the Municipality of Aristotle there is a way. Reinforce the staff from the Arnaia Forestry which cannot function unintentionally because of the existence of a secondment. Support me sanitary and improve the building infrastructure at the Palaiochori Health Center. Bring doctors to the hospitals of Great Panagia and Ierissos. Monitor the contracted teachers at the Centers for Creative Employment of Children in Arnaia, Ierissos, Great Panagia. Bring back the teachers you took from Ammouliani from the Army from Neochori, Uranoupolis. After you're so cut off, then, for the services of the city, cover up these huge gaps first so that it can work first. Who prevents you from doing this, since you are so interested in the Municipality of Aristotle. But the problem, of course, is not that. You want a Municipality of Aristotle weak and a society divided around a building with five offices. A government, however, that resorts to such movements, a government that hides behind these cheap localizations, is a government that fades and falls. Taught by the Municipality of Aristotle. It's a chance. See if the then Mayor of the Municipality of Aristotle was politically rescued. Mr. Pachtas lost by state. And don't forget that these stories always repeat themselves. We therefore tell you to withdraw Rule 47 which is contrary to the case law of the Council of State and to respect the decision of the Supreme Court. And I call again here, from this Step of the House, the two other Members of the House, Mr Vagionas and Mr Pana, to go together to the Mayor, Mr Valiano, after the withdrawal of the article, and see how much the functional gaps of the Municipality of Aristotle are, to record the real needs of staff and infrastructure and all together to force the government to strengthen the municipality for the benefit of society and away from all these old-fashioned reasonable localizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Malama. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, wants to reply to the clarifications of the amendment requested by Mr Hatzigiannakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. We did a consultation with Mr Hatzigiannakis, because these have not really been developed in committee because they concern the amendment and asked me for some specific questions. I can only answer these specific questions so that it can be put. So you asked me why three years of successive contracts. The answer is that the basic and main rules, which exist in the relevant Presidential Decree incorporating the European directive to which you referred, mainly speaks of successive conventions. We do not have a successive contract here. It actually sets a maximum of twenty-four months. However, this limit is considered to be specific reasons in this respect. What are the special reasons for this? We have an agency, which currently has no staff at all. It must be effectively managed that this body now takes over the management of waste on too many islands. Our assessment is that a notice of less time will not be attractive for critical specialties, especially because of the islandity of the region. It is something we have, unfortunately, experience about. They do not easily work in a limited period of time, especially in an island area, and it is something that needs to be done and must be done quickly. So that's why we're putting three years. We believe that the three-year period is a year - let me say it - more attractive work in order to be able to achieve the result we want. I have therefore explained to you for three years the special reason which otherwise is provided for in this provision and allows the twenty-four months to be exceeded. The second thing you asked me is the number of seats. The Agency shall provide for four hundred fifty posts. We give the seventy-five. The differentiation, which you point out, between one and the other is about the differentiation of islands. The island is both the island and the other region, but obviously much more and smaller islands have to do with waste management in the southern Aegean Sea than in the Ionian Sea. It is mainly the number that imposes this differentiation. Finally, you asked me about the provision of recognition of service as a pre-service with administrative - let me say it - for the evolution of staff in the case of agencies. I would like here to point out to you - take a little notice of the provision - that this is only the case for officials who were already serving before they moved, not to a general government body, but to Otta and who were already in charge. They can't move. So they have to resign from the lead position to move. They resign, they move, and if, by decision of the board of directors, they take a lead, then I think it is fair to recognise them in that case, because they had a head of staff, that as a pre-service. Otherwise, I think we are creating a very unfair situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much. We shall now proceed with Mr Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Loverdos, I would like to thank you for your initial reference to the state, this huge bogeyman, and your reference to the ideological hegemony of the left, because it shows that your prolongation to Greece has not understood anything. The President of the United States, Joe Biden, is being recruited by the state to deal with crises. Germany's new Chancellor, Mr Solts, the state is being recruited to deal with crises. All over Europe, the state also strengthens the progressive and conservative governments to strengthen endurance, sustainability and resilience. And while the whole world is changing into the pandemic crisis with the energy and geostrategic changes, you, Mr. Voridis, always stay the same: the state and party ruffles for direct assignments, the state of gift to friends and chosen ones. Do you understand what Mr. Spirtz denounced? It's a disgrace. This is not even a partyisation of the state. It's a state of friends and chosen. Mr. Contolone, CEO of the private company that took place with the State in 2014, Mr. President. Mr. Kontolones in 2019, while he does not have the required degree and we change the law, etc., became the commander of the NSA with a degree of music or something. In 2021 a legislative arrangement was adopted to settle or a company run by the current EUPM commander. It's a shame for the Greek people's money, for a cent. Don't let that happen, Mr. Voridis, in a bill of your own Ministry. We've told you a lot. I think we're right about everything. But we have never doubted your integrity. Don't let go of that. Ask him to retire. We have time. Now. To get it on him by the Prime Minister. To come to a bill by Mr. Theodorikou. It is a disgrace to the Greek people's money this thing. That's the definition. And let me tell you why you're legislating wrong, Minister? Because you don't understand the needs of society. You do not understand that the other thing is the state, another thing is the private sector, another thing is the Civil Society. You guys only look at very specific things at all. That is why all small and medium-sized organisations are denounced here, because you do not understand how the model works in Europe and around the world, that smaller voluntary organisations can have better decentralisation, better efficiency, better targeting. I'm sorry. You've brought a bunch of bills. Where is simplification of procedures? Where's the red tape? Where is the interconnection and interoperability of systems? Where's the digital transformation? There is a mess here, a mess of nine plus two registries plus the registries' registries' registries plus the registries' registries. Now, for the S.H.I.E.L.D., what are you doing with the S.E.L.D.? Everyone condemns you - and rightly so - progressive and democratic opposition. What is this amendment doing here? What consultation? There are services in the country that are absolutely sensitive and beyond whether you and tomorrow are governed by us. Where are you turning us? And that's what you want to strangle? I come to the other issue with Mr Thodorikos. Excuse me, do you realize we're in the Greek Parliament? Does Mr Thodorikos think that we are there in the 1980s, where one is a little more left, the other a little more right and we are putting down resolutions? Is it bringing out a procedure for the single ballot and increased crusade here? Does Mr. Thodorikos think he's the only one who knows about a student union? You may not know that. But we know them. That's where we come from. Does Mr Thodorikos think that this system can strangle the democratic and progressive voices in the police, or create a strangled cord in these people who work with reduced earnings, with reduced education, with reduced security, and try with various telemains on various remote windows to manipulate them fully by ignoring the difficulty and everyday life of their families? Here, this is the president of the fifteenth, Mr Theodorikos, who has made a single ballot and increased crusade. Shame on you! Those who understand the basics of trade unionism understand that this is a deep anti-democratic manipulation. Starts a bill and has some provisions. You will then put in three-fold amendments. Again bring provisions for self-government, again provisions for citizenship. What does that all confirm? That you're a Danaides reformist ape. You throw water on top, you are a year Minister, you burn, you go back to the different forums and you say "I have legislated one, I have legislated the other". Has the country changed? For teleworking - and I sent you a letter the other day - you voted for teleworking. I did not vote for it, although I agree that there should be teleworking. Obviously! Where's the teleworking now that a hundred people die a day? You're not answering the letter, you're cheating. What can I tell you, Mr. Voridis? You are voting on lobbying and transparency. This is Kodolion's lobby. What can we do with the lobbying law? We have 5 billion direct assignments. I'll see you here. Internal audit, I don't know what you're doing. It'll surprise me if you do anything. Volunteer: Am I looking for something? You always make changes, you're all reforming, and the country is stagnant. You're probably on some bike, in some gym, you're throwing a pedal yourself, admiring you, applauding you, and at the end of training, and while you're on purpose, you haven't even done half a measure ahead. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Voridis, that's enough. The country needs a change. The current government accumulates the problems, multiplying them. And I'm not the only one who criticizes you from the position of Officerial Opposition. He has made you highly critical - and I must acknowledge it and say that I was inspired by his speech - and Mr Kamines. Mr Kamine, the country needs change, the citizens need change, and this government is part of the problem and not part of the solution. Each one on his own route and on his own autonomy, trying together not to pass these anti-democratic medals, these manipulations which are not a party flag of party patriotism, but are shameful and evil for the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too. Mrs Panayiou Poulos has the floor and then Mr Tolkas. Mrs. Pulu, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today concerns a field that has demonstrated the importance for society many times within the last decade of the successive crises. In the humanitarian crisis of the first memorial period, in the 2015 migratory crisis, in the climate crisis over time and, in addition, in the double health and economic crisis affecting our country because of the pandemic. Civil society organisations, organised volunteering, gave and continue to present potential to the side of our tested vulnerable fellow citizens every day by filling out the gaps and shortcomings of the state. And they did this, despite the fact that they often became a target of unfair and malicious attacks from various aspects that now pretend to support them. We do not forget, for example, that the New Democracy during the migratory crisis had targeted solidarity organisations to make a sterile opposition to the SYRIZA government at that time and to extract micro-party benefits, closing the eye at extreme right-wing audiences. It seems, therefore, that your Government, Mr Ministers, under the pressure of society itself, recognised the inadmissible attitude of the New Democracy towards these organisations in the past and decided to make it up to them in the past. Slowly late than never! Because civil society needs a clear and effective institutional framework that will enable it to realise its enormous potential. But do you achieve this with the bill you brought to Parliament after two and a half years of delays and promises? The promises, of course, were of Mr.Theodorikos, your predecessor, and are equivalent to those of the responsibilities of self-government and multi-level governance, which your Government, the "excellent", would have implemented by the end of 2019 and concerned the dominant and time-consuming demand of self-government expressed again at the last conference of the CDE. And if I'm not mistaken, renew your commitment, Mr. Voridis, along with Mr. Petsa, to bring the present Parliament until the end of 2021. We're waiting. However, let us come back to this bill, which is another lost opportunity to regulate volunteering, which civil society demands and requires the difficult juncture of pandemic. The reaction of organisations with the most unfavourable comments in the consultation, but also the storm in the memorial tombs of more than three hundred small and medium-sized volunteer organisations over the past few days clearly demonstrates that they reject your bill. This is because its restrictive and controllative character leads them to shrinking and undermines their prospects with excessive obligations, and in practice strengthens the disparities between them to the detriment of the smaller ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the weaknesses of the bill are identified in all four areas that it is supposed to heal. First of all, we find that it is not achieved in a uniform and transparent way in the first area of registration of organisations and public bodies. The Special Register and the Public Database come to be added to the existing nine registries that are scattered to the Ministries and independent authorities, without any provision for interoperability and elimination of the parallel and overlapping structures. The absence of the Ministry of Digital Governance and its well-advertised leadership is deafening. You are creating, that is, the conditions for absolute chaos. And you do not convince us, Minister, that the management of civil society organisations and the utilities that you set up in the Ministry of the Interior will be able to put the chaos to order, since neither the staff nor the infrastructure we know nor the means of communication and cooperation with the organisations themselves. In the second area of the conditions of registration of organisations in the register that are a prerequisite for their funding, bureaucratic chaos is not only accidental since it ultimately excludes most of the funding. But you do not forget to charge them with a sloppy assumption of EUR 200. Instead of financing them, you characterize them. In the third area of their funding, the levelling-up of the same criteria for large and small organisations clearly favours the first and scandalously and almost excludes the second in practice, since complex and costly management control by sworn auditors is forbidden for their size. You do not even make it easier for them to pay for these obligations through the financing of programmes that will be carried out as eligible expenditure. In the fourth area of voluntary employment with the own-initiative search for the penal register for members of the administrative boards of organisations, and even without differentiation of offences, you are not only restricting the participation of citizens, but you are also undermining all social reintegration policies. Furthermore, do you ignore, Minister, that citizens' participation is not always continuous and stable, but changes in their interest and availability? The same rules cannot therefore apply to employed work which requires registration in the ERGAN system. I would like to mention here a typical example of your terminal incompetence that has left administrative headless, without taxing councils for two years across the country, many public libraries. The problem was created by your legislation with Law 4735/2020, with which you complicated the selection of members of the tax boards. Volunteer citizens who actually offer unpaid work are no longer appointed directly by the Ministry of Education, but after complex bureaucratic procedures through an APA selection, while having to submit a statement from where they were costs. We all realise that if you do not amend your legislative framework, the coverage of these positions will never be done, resulting in the malfunction of public libraries that cannot meet even the minimum daily requirements of their operation. Or is it because they are public, Minister, you're thinking about privatising them too? Ladies and gentlemen, let us now pass on to the second bill that is hidden in the articles of this article. Twenty-two articles in all fifty-four articles of the bill concern local government issues and were not included in public consultation. A whole bill that regulates, photographs, serves people and for which we do not know the positions of the CEDEFOP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please be indulgent. Article 35 ensures the orderly functioning of the first grade ATTs by providing the mayor's assent to the secondment or transfer of a regular official, but where they are applied by way of derogation from the mobility cycles of the single mobility system. On the basis of the important subsidization problem faced by most municipalities in the country and with the urgent request made at the CEN conference by Mr. Vorides and Mr. Petsas embezzle self-government since this restriction of the assent does not extend to the secondment-transitions carried out in the context of mobility cycles. Article 50 increasingly extends the powers of the Economic Commission of the municipalities to the detriment of municipal councils since it now also assumes the responsibilities of the quality of life regulatory decisions of the Committee without making clear which of them will be referred to municipal councils. Fracture or feasibility? Of course, if it is in keeping with your views, Minister, on the functioning of self-government. The municipalities for you are not cells of democracy of consensus, convergences and public accountability but anonymous companies with mayors, managers and donors of strong majority voting in bodies such as economic committees that decide direct commissions and closed contests supposedly due to the exceptional conditions of the pandemic. Of course, these ideas and decisions are still to be finalised by the Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not going to solve problems either of volunteering or of self-government. This is because the New Democracy Government perceives both these fields as suitable only for privatisation and business and not as fields of participation, collective solidarity and social solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too. Mr. Angel Tolkas has the floor. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Hatzigiannakis, will then speak and the Minister will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, voluntary organisations, civil society, non-governmental organisations for a long time, have played an important role in the formation of public opinion and policies, in the exercise of social priorities and broader priorities in specific policies on which they are involved and in which they are active. They've been tested all these years. They are also tested by the economic crisis which affects themselves and their members and executives. They are, however, widely tested by the complexity of today's era which creates new needs. Of course, there have also been cases where the area of non-governmental organisations has been stigmatized and we are clearly in favour of revealing all these cases and punishing these behaviours. Today, the division, the need for specific problems and challenges have created the need for new mobilisations and participations of citizens. The examples are too much. It is the environment, it is immigration, it is the social problems that are constantly growing is poverty, it is the social initiatives to tackle issues of exclusion of racial violence and discrimination. One example is the organisations which have been involved in immigration all the previous time and which we have operated. I personally was also responsible for the Ministry of Immigration as a State Secretary. They were organisations that the New Democracy was then devastated and for them they formally adopted the popular extreme right concept of depreciation and exclusion of civil society. Remember what you were saying throughout that period and not the progressive democratic party, as the rapporteur, Mr Loverdes, said at first place, in the first place. What did we do to the Ministry? We opened the register, organisations were integrated and despite many issues that had already been raised earlier. They took heavy weight both from the international and from the Greek organisations and were the ones who at least raised the burden of the migratory crisis. They have created structures that are now to be retained by the official Greek state. Many of them were displaced that had caused management problems and had the same management problems. However, they were an important pillar that helped address the problem. A major problem with the bill is that registering, which gives many privileges and funding, can only be done by large professional or state-dependent organisations. Small, medium-sized organisations, all youth organisations - here I will pay particular attention - the citizens' initiatives and the informal groups, despite the fact that they can be funded by many European programmes, are actually out of context with your regulations. As far as youth organisations are concerned, Minister, I would like to say that you are provokingly ignoring the youth of the country. You keep young people away from joining. Beside the young people of our country, participation in social events in international and European forums, social mobility, experiences, knowledge, deepening in more specific occupations and interests. There are too many youth organisations, whether students or wider, which have enabled their members, students, students, young people to get to know new European experiences with many meetings and exchanges that have taken place. This is because they are small organisations and they will not have all these possibilities left outside the special register. You're not surprised by your policy. This policy you are following is to exclude the vast majority of young people belonging to the middle and lower layers. All opportunities that you deprive of from the above remain only those who have the opportunity due to economic situation or party participation. You do so on every occasion for this you have put on the ice and the Secretariat-General of New Generation. So even in youth we want to gather opportunities again to the few and chosen. In the youth that the Prime Minister so advertises that she cares about and supports her, she actually underestimates her and treats her as second-class citizens. In the Greek youth, which, for the month of October, is at the forefront of youth unemployment in the European Union, according to EUROSTAT, is 33.2%. Today's legislature, too, is the absence of a national strategy for volunteering and non-governmental organisations. There is a classic bureaucratic process, the creation of a new structure, a new service that refers to an old cutting public service. In fact, this is where you put demands and difficulties in registering far more than the preconditions, Mr Voridis, which you had put as Minister of Agriculture for joining the register of agricultural cooperatives. And I am not saying this in any way by underestimating agricultural cooperatives, of course, but I stress that you are following the same and more difficult practice with organisations of economic added interest. The absence of any description here in the bill for digital tools, for automatic certifications through interconnected identification programs reveal the image of chaos that comes as this service receives thousands of documents from all over Greece, will have three to four employees and will take years to make the decisions. It is generally a bad legislation that will only suit a few people and will only be done so that the government can say that it has made its commitment to the European partners. And also provocative tax exemptions for those who donate money to the organizations that these donors again are specific. Then we look for why the indirect taxes on the budget are increasing, which affects all, and especially the weaker citizens, and are exempted from tax by those who have the economic potential. Furthermore, the provision with no conditions for these donations of private individuals to be registered in the register can create or direct a flow of money from private operators to specific organisations again. Why do you not define the publication of budgets for each public body, service or body which finances non-governmental organisations? And you do the same for those who have financed, to those who have given money, to see what they have done in relation to what they have budgeted. Why do you not also define in the law the criteria on which to discuss the financing of non-governmental organisations? Minister, we could vote for the bill if you were trying to create an environment that favours the participation of citizens, which encourages them to get out of the margin, which frees civil society from state dependence, which turns them into government organisations, which often undertakes to pass or prepare policies that each government wants. We want a society that is sensitive, up-to-date, which participates and claims, a society of opportunities for everyone and not for a few chosen and powerful people. This is the challenge of the great popular progressive alliance that SYRIZA forms as a response to today's lack of wealth, rights and opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u317	Thank you. Minister, will you put forward legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, we are putting forward legislative proposals. I will not develop them, they are purely legal, they have nothing essential. It is purely legal, except that it has something about the paradoxes of citizenship that had been erroneously received from the provisions. In other words, the provision, which was in existence and which was erroneously received, is repeated. Existing order. It's not a new one. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Let the pages in. 423-424
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Hatzyannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u320	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today I think you have been wronged both by your Government and your colleague, of course you have also been wronged by the majority Members who have not honoured this bill, with few exceptions, of course. Mr Lovers has put it at the start of the debate, and I believe that the majority rapporteur, Mr Lovers, put it right. In other words, I would agree with this position and the importance that such a bill could have and unfortunately it does not. Indeed, in the committees we have been able to hold dialogue, we have been able to hold debates that are appropriate for parliamentary scrutiny and for a parliamentary procedure. We have heard the bodies, at least in terms of the central and key part of the bill on voluntary schemes and all these organisations that we call non-governmental organisations. I think that the government's choice to bring the amendment of the Ministry of Civil Protection has also wronged Parliament itself, it also unfairs parliamentary procedure, it also unfairs democracy. I will try to make a few quick comments on the bill, because unfortunately the question of the amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection, which will most of my speech, be spent on it, is so serious. In order not to blame myself, however, and I - as the government and Mr Theodorikos have done - the bill is about to deal with a few issues - because our rapporteur and all our colleagues, I think, have set the whole framework sufficiently and the choice we make on the bill - I will make very few comments, particularly on the second part of the bill, on the arrangements for local government in principle. A comment - Mrs Pulu said so - to meet the functional needs you put in Article 40 is as I understand that you are facing a problem that exists in the OTAs. A few days ago, after his meeting with the Prime Minister - whom I incidentally welcomed tomorrow in Evia, because he accepted after four months of the end of the fires to come to see the chaos that exists and the damage that has been done in such a beautiful place, after four months he said to see the catastrophe left in his final state - he pointed out what he kept pointing out from the conference and then that the cost that the municipalities have been asked to pay exceeds EUR 400 million for the pandemic period alone. When you obviously come in and tell them "cover your expenses with whatever unskilled income you have" - and you do it in part, because you get them out of this, at least they can have budgets that can pass - you do not solve the problem. That is for granted, that the problem is not solved, no matter how much you say you stand side by side, that you have provided exceptional funding, which is obviously not enough, because the cost was much higher. And it does not appear in the 2022 budget, which we will discuss in the next few days, that you have corresponding forecasts to support them, at least with the revenue and resources you bring from the budget. A first comment, then, is that. A second comment, which we discussed and I hope it will pass, is on Article 45. I told you in committee too. I think it is very right to regulate, because you are now trying to avoid - and you are right to do - the multiple checks that have been carried out by the collective bodies' decisions. And you do well to put the threshold where there is a control of the Court of Auditors doesn't have to be approved by the decentralised as well. It doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors has already decided to annul decisions which have already been adopted by the competent institution. So that's right. I would just like to point out what we have discussed in private. Because at the moment in the control of the legality of decentralised contracts go over sixty thousand contracts in all categories if we can build it in that given, not change it, not go to thirty thousand for supplies and services and create an additional problem of delays, which is obviously trying to deal with this provision and I think in the right direction. On Rule 47, Mrs Malama told you in detail. It's like that. We're vertically opposite. It is not only the Municipality of Aristotle, it is also the Municipality of Kymi-Aliveri, which has such problems and has decisions of the administrative courts, obviously irrevocable. Of course, they interpreted - to be perfectly fair - the institutional framework that exists. But they create problems, which we think are also fragmented, and they will not solve any problems, they will simply create more tensions in the callive municipalities that they are concerned with. In Article 53, we discussed the new municipalities. I think - and I want to stand very little - that the problem of newly established municipalities needs to be solved. They don't have any legal persons. You do well to institutionalize this, but it is not enough. It must be possible for newly established municipalities to have legal persons, which will carry out these objectives which legal persons have in all other municipalities, to have no municipalities in different categories. Socrates Vardakis and other SYRIZA MPs have tabled an amendment to the provision you already have for the firefighting municipalities, and you are right, for the facilities that the victims' relatives can have, to extend this provision to the earthquakes of Crete. I think it's in the right direction. If you cannot, at least today, in due course, consider it, because I think this amendment is in the right direction. And we're going to the FATS amendment. We were notified of the letter that sent the network of Solid Waste Management Bodies. He's talking about surprise. It's quite aggressive. And it's aggressive because while you come to solve a problem - as you explained before in the clarification question - of the newly established graduating links between the two island regions, the southern Aegean and the Ionian Sea, correspondingly, problems have with the existing FVO problems that many, from the point of view of the letter, have no staff at all. And that's where they see no movement being made at all in terms of the Ministry. I would add that there is also a question of moral and legal order in the sense that it has been offended by the courts. There is a gap at the moment, and the gap is clear that it must somehow be covered, because they cannot function. It had already delayed the change of old players with the new, graduated one and it was all 'in the air'. That's where I give it to you. But on the other hand, there is now a case in the Council of State which is expected to be discussed very soon if it has not already been discussed. I'm not absolutely sure. You're going to tell me: it's a certain time. I, however, also retain the reservation for three years. I think the two years were enough. It would have covered us both with the European directive and - most importantly of all - within two years, if you had started the procedures, with any system of the ADP, either with your own and with the competition, the positions of the management bodies could have been covered and you could have been able to cover it. And I go to Mr Theodorikou's famous amendment. Now listen to what we have and why it is mainly wrong for you, who are legal, and so many times we have discussed the legal provisions of public procurement in other legislation. We have a 2014 public contract, which speaks of a pilot project, the "brakes". It was a pilot project in 2014. The implementation of the contract begins, it is being implemented. At some point, like all contracts, it has an end date. Because after the resignation of the then CEO and the appointment of the current commander of the NSA, Mrs. Kontoleon, has the contractual time of this contract now expired, are there apparently unofficial renewals? I do not understand how, because neither the provision nor the explanatory statement show how this convention continued. A question arises on the Legal Council of the State if it is true. And it was right to ask, obviously, why there was a question, from what I understand, why we don't have the whole file. The Legislative Council of State is therefore coming along with a fully reasoned proposal and says that, on the one hand, the Convention has expired, on the other hand, it cannot be paid. It says that the only way, if indeed the service has been done by the contractor, is to go to the courts, that is, what happens to all contracts and, above all, to all public contracts. That is right, then, and the Legal Council of State draws up an opinion. Will you tell me: is the Minister obliged to accept it? Oh, no. It must, however, make a reasoned decision on why those things which it does not accept on the Legal Council of the State apply. In my question to the Minister, unfortunately Mr Theodorikos sent Mr Economou, who did not know what to say about the difficult situation. Generally, the man answered. He sent him over for the hard stuff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't need much time, Mr. President. And the question is that we have an opinion on a 2014 pilot project, almost eight years ago, which is still pilot, in 2020 and 2021, instead of having proceeded with a competitive process, as if we were not covered by our legislative framework, either by Law 4412 or by the amendment that you have made either the European directive. We have so many legislative frameworks. Since such contracts are so necessary and we all accept that it is a necessary contract and must continue, you had all the time to do the legal procedures and the contractor must go to the courts to claim either on the basis of unjust enrichment or on any legal basis and take his money. And what is unprecedentedly chosen? To bring it into law, to come, to pass a law on the company that Mr Koncolones was the director of the company - I do not even raise the moral question of whether Caesar's wife should and should be honest, I do not even say that, all the MPs and Mr Spirtz, who recommended it, have put it eloquently, so that we, the House, and what the Legal Council of the State considered to be illegal, what judging it if it is lawful or not, say that a contract applies beyond contractual times and that the company in question must be paid. Tell me which country this can be seen as the result of a legal parliamentary procedure and, above all, in which European country. In other words, we should go out to the world tomorrow and say: that's why we did it. So I think that this way is wrong, and it is wrong for the majority of the New Democracy, which, unfortunately, will be forced to vote tomorrow, but at least to do so by the nominal we have tabled, everyone will take the blame, because I think you have made a very big mistake here, a very great blow, which, unfortunately, will be the responsibility of those who vote for it personally. I am not even going to mention the rest, and I have to say it about what you are doing to the police trade unions, about the same amendment, and of course about the reminding of other times in the context of the transfer, on the basis of the removal, unpleasant or other colleagues from the National Intelligence Service. Unfortunately, we are obliged to vote against it, and I think that the whole process did not receive the attention it should have given to both the parliamentary procedure and your own effort, regardless of whatever reservations we had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Hatzyannakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have nothing to say about the amendment, which this House has indeed dealt with, in the sense that it is matters which the relevant Minister has raised. And to tell you the truth, Mr Hatzyannakis, until I heard you now, I didn't know the matter at all. But I have heard you describe it and I understand that you are putting an issue of moral and legal order in order to regulate recognition, in essence, of the retrospective recognition of the debt of a contract. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] However, I would like to make that clear. As I heard you again: I do not know him, I do not know him, his company, I do not know him, the contract, the way the contract has evolved, the way I hear him from you, but as a legal colleague to my colleague, I will finally tell you this. However, if there were a contract with which services such as the one described to us were actually provided, it is obviously also a price. What do I want to tell you about this now? The critical here is this. And that is what I tell you from professional experience, that as far as the answer 'let go to court' is concerned, let him go to court, because if it is the end of a contract, and therefore there is no legal reason for the payment of the fee, he will go to court and court, if a service has been provided, on the legal basis of unjust enrichment will be paid. Yeah. So, the scandal now what is it? That, instead of being paid unjust enrichment after a court ruling, Parliament finally acknowledges that it must be paid, something that the court would say after a court dispute? If what you want to check is why the competition or a competitive procedure did not take place, that is yes. However, the recognition - in the sense that, in fact, there is to be seen because the agency did not proceed with this procedure - does not give rise to a question as soon as a service has been provided. I was just telling you the opposite. I mean, there's a debtor - because service was provided, so he owes - who says "I don't pay, go to court to get your money", because there's a legal flaw - that's actually - then he's a bad trustworthy debtor, if he recognizes that service has been provided. I am just saying this because I hear a lot of noise too many times, and we need to look at the real object and content a little bit. Has the service been provided or not? If the service has been provided, either on the legal basis of the law, the contract or unjust enrichment, the money will, however, be paid by the State. So if our debate is based on a legal basis, I think that there is a great deal of fuss about an issue that does not seem to make any difference. But, in any case, you will probably discuss them with the Minister responsible. I'm just coming up to our own issues. Let's see what I didn't hear again today. And here I have to say the following. I am sorry, because I often see a different tone in the tone of Mr Hatzigiannakis or Mr Meikopoulou, but also in the tone of other colleagues from the police and I do not know what to choose from the two. You must also coordinate with regard to tuna so that we can have a clearer position. In other words, Mikopoulou takes a negative position, but he is obviously arguing in a certain way, but I have heard various other things and I have to refer to them. First, bad legislation. Bad mess. Why? Because two amendments were tabled to the House in due course, on the basis of SYRIZA, there were fifty and two amendments tabled! One amendment from the Ministry of the Interior, therefore entirely relevant, and the other amendment with indirect relevance, since it concerns the transfer of personnel. With regard to good law, let's see what I heard here: Didn't you bring us - where? In consultation; specific provisions amending specific articles on local government issues. Couldn't I bring them up with this amendment? Under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, could I? As long as I could bring them in, but I'm bringing them to the body of the bill, is it a bad piece of legislation? Is it a bad thought that I'm doing the major while I could do the lasson? Because, I repeat, the nature of these interventions is not central. I didn't bring you a whole bill for local government. I'm bringing you interventions in specific cases that are of a special nature. That is the definition of the amendment. I can bring it up with amendment - so I can bring it to you on Friday and discuss it on Monday - in due course and appropriately under the Constitution, so it is a good piece of legislation. I don't do that, I do more. I put it in the body of the bill and we are discussing it in the committee - so we have a comfortable parliamentary dialogue - and you resign me. Why? Because I haven't put it in consultation with the public, with the world. Excuse me now, would you like us to get a little grounded with reality? Where do you say that? Who are you telling? And I come to the question of the number of amendments, where do you say so, when we have bills which had fifteen and all late? And now we're talking about the bill that has two deadlines, and we're talking about good and bad legislation? Stop, we're losing count. We fully respect what the Constitution imposes, and the law on the final state, and you come now and tell us that we should not even exercise those rights that the government has. And say why? Because many of these from the moment a bill is drawn up by the time it is being discussed may have emerged. So I do not understand the meaning of this criticism. I think if we don't have anything else to say, we're saying something like that. I also heard that this is another missed opportunity. That's no longer a favourite opposition aftermath. Why am I saying it? I remember your locations. Lost chance with the teleworking bill, you voted against it. Lost chance the bill for lobbying, you voted against it. Lost opportunity for the internal audit bill, you voted against it. Lost opportunity for civil society bill, you are voting against it. Well, from these missed opportunities, you four and a half years, why didn't you win one? We're losing them all. You guys who had the good ideas about how nice it is, why didn't you bring them four and a half years? We've brought these in ten months. You, in four and a half years, why didn't you win those lost opportunities? So why are they now lost opportunities? Because, look out. Because, these bills have no room to disagree. Because how can you disagree at first with the fact that we need to make an effective internal audit? You did it and you voted against it. How can you begin by arguing that we need to regulate teleworking and that there should be regulated teleworking in the public? You did it and you voted against it. How can you, in principle, disagree with the regulation of a regulator activity, such as the activity of exerting influence on institutional bodies? And you voted against it! And how can you disagree that we need an institutional framework for civil society organisations? You voted against that too! How do you do that? So because you cannot disagree at first - and I have said so many times, if you had disagreement on two issues, you could disagree - but you are reaching the point where you are voting against the principle, the philosophy of what is trying to do the bill, then you are starting to tell stories about lost opportunities. Now let's go see what Mr Zachariadis says when I said this year was an extremely productive year on the part of the Ministry of Interior. Why? For we have brought the new law on the ASP that we have founded and regulated in Greece the recruitment competition we are preparing for, we have brought the law on internal control, on work, we have changed the electoral law on self-government, we have brought the law on lobbying, we are now bringing the law on civil society, we have brought the law on pets and we have brought our proposal to change the framework of the right to vote of residents abroad, which has not taken the majority with responsibility of the left parties. So we do have a very productive year for the Interior Ministry. And Mr. Zachariadis asks me: "Did you do anything with all this? Has the state changed? Have you changed anything with all this activity?" I don't remember exactly how he told me that it's legislative populism, activism, like that. Allow me. So, what are you telling me now? That within ten months with this activity that forms a framework to operate a number of issues - and be careful, to tell you the future, because that is how it will go, and now we have to present to the Ministerial Council the bill that we fundamentally change the evaluation of civil servants and a number of other issues that we are preparing for - you say to me 'yes, but you haven't changed the state in ten months. You didn't catch up with it, you didn't change it. Why, what happened when you voted for telework? Is there a teleworking right now?' I have not been able, therefore, in the tenth month - now it is within six months - to issue the Presidential Decree on the protection of personal data, the Ministerial Decision on the operational conditions of the system, to make the tender for the operation of the teleworking system in the public sector. The truth is, I confess, I didn't catch up in six months. Be good for you who have made this three and a half years before you've finished this. For the internal control, he says, have you done something? As if I could hear it from Mr Zachariadis when we were talking about internal control. It doesn't make any sense, he says, there's nothing going to be done. And I say, at the moment, we have a plan for how internal audit units will be organised, we will do the training of internal auditors, we will proceed with their certification, we will adopt the relevant ministerial decisions on internal audit committees and we will proceed with a plan with which we will begin to produce internal audit procedures. The first seventy internal auditors have been trained and certified. It is in their units and starts and runs, as part of their national integrity plan, to monitor their work. Didn't we do anything again? Has the state changed? I do not know what you mean 'Change the State'. If you say that we will abolish the institutions so that we do not have the joint powers to restrict us to do what we want, we have not changed the state so. But if you mean that in a mature Western democracy, such as Greece, we have pathogens, a methodological one, we make them, we do that. Let me just say this here. Incidentally, if this seems or does not seem, we have won the five points on the corruption index with this government, the ones we have lost on SYRIZA. That's what's happened. The positions we have lost in SYRIZA have been won in the New Democracy. I don't know if this looks fun to you. He's fun. It's the truth. So, in what sense? That someone can hear you talking about the corruption or inappropriateness of this government, while we have fallen into the corruption index in your day and now we are rewinding to get a ladder over where we were, in this period of time, all right, I would say that I must, if anything - I do not ask for anything shocking - to evaluate and appreciate it. The fact that, for example, large international organisations such as the OECD, in public places recognise the enormous effort being made at the level of administrative reform at too many levels in Greece, is also something that should concern you and assess it, so that you are not completely detached from the international environment and the general perception. I'm coming to the bill. What didn't I hear? Having heard anthems about the necessity of regulation, which was, by the way, agreed by civil society itself and by the institutions whom we have heard comfortably and have been placed on how positive this bill is at first instance, by you, what have I heard now? It's, it says, auditing, and we're doing it to control them. What do you mean? What do you mean, really? I don't understand. We're making two records. You mean there should be no registries? Do you mean that while you conclude that there were - and that I did not understand - cases of corruption in such organisations - I also did not understand -, do you, by definition, think that all these organisations are holy? Because, in other words, someone writes 'non-governmental organisation', at the same time sanctified? Is this happening at the same time? Or that he has an accountability obligation? Or that he has a duty of transparency? Or if he gets state money - I'm going to say privately - he has to account for all of this? Or should he explain to us what he's doing? What is your opinion of this? It is impressive that the serious organisations of the Civil Society themselves, which we have heard, from every size, species and, if you like, perception, have all agreed that there is a need to do that. Are you saying anything else? That nothing should be done? If you agree - and that is why, Mr Hanjiyanakis, you are right to wonder - then I beg your pardon, to what is the bill of inspection? To get them money to get into two registries? Well, then how are we going to do control if we don't even have them in a register, if we don't know who they are, if we don't know their administration, if we don't know their statutes, if we don't have a financial situation? What do you mean, it's auditing? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Do I have some more time, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u323	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much. I want you to explain that to me. It goes on to say: "The bill is bureaucratic." Yes, sir. Why is the bill bureaucratic? It makes two records and in fact the two records leave three options. First option: I don't want to get 1 euro from the Greek public. Respectful choice? Reverent. He doesn't have to get in anywhere. He doesn't get public money, he doesn't go into any records. You don't have to. He only has to talk to his donors under the conditions he thinks he is a civil society organisation. What's the second choice? He's going to the base. Well, what's he supposed to put in? Here's what you think is too much for me to understand your criticism and how much you stand out now. A statute, its management bodies, a financial situation, i.e. a balance sheet - revenue - cost, this is a financial situation - and we are done. This is the exaggerated and heavy and bureaucratic one to have an image with which this organisation with these conditions will get up to EUR 50,000 funding and a paradox of 20 euros. Is that too much? What do you want us to do then? We shouldn't put it on them. What should we put on? And now we go to the other. The others are the so-called major organizations. What are they gonna do? They will take over 50,000 euros and have tax exemptions. Excuse me. For them to say that we want to see a report of sworn auditors, this as an add-on, that we want their administrations not to have committed criminal offences, that we want to see an action plan for them - what did they do? - and a report on their action plan - did they do so? - is that heavy? I heard a criticism: 'It's heavy'. Why is it heavy? Why, he says, it presupposes the vows. I asked the market how much the vow is doing. It's 2,000 euros. 3,000 euros? Yeah, but he'll get from the state of 60,000 euros, 70,000 euros, 80,000 euros, plus tax exemptions. Is it going to take EUR 10 000 per month of aid or EUR 8 000 or EUR 9 000 and cannot pay EUR 300 for the vowed auditor to serve this transparency requirement? I'm sorry, I mean. So, let's get in touch with each other. In fact, you say the same thing that is contradictory. You say 'Yes, but you do not support small organisations'. The small organisations in which you want us to put them? Do you want-- is that what you're telling me-- to get unlimited amounts plus tax exemptions with the first register? Is that what you want? That is, in fact, without conditions, in fact on minimum conditions. Is that what you want? Do you now seriously support this as a prerequisite for transparency? That someone will come, take 100,000 euros and put us in a statute and an administration body and a paradox of 20 euros. And that is what you call transparency. Because, he says, we want to reinforce. What do we do now? We want, he says, to strengthen the big ones and hurt the small ones. How do we hit the little ones first? First of all, the 'little' and 'large', to say otherwise, I do not say it. The "small" and "large" - heavy category, demanding or less demanding - will be chosen themselves. Did I tell an organization not to enter the most demanding register and claim greater sums? They choose in which register they will enter, according to their funding and their ambitions. What do you mean? Because they still don't say what you're saying. They said " put us all to the great and then, if we do not fulfil our conditions, get us out". So I'm gonna go get the tax exemptions, go get the big funding, without any extra conditions. And I don't get the big funding now. Now, at the moment we're talking, I'm not getting them, because if I take them, I'm going straight to the big one. I am ambitious to take them, but without wanting to meet the demands. Well, that can't be. Excuse me! Do you now call this a prerequisite for transparency and integrity? I ask: Do you, in line with your policy of four and a half years, but before you, know about it in Europe? Do you know them in the world? Do you know which rank we're on? Can we be a little conscientious? Because, on the one hand, SYRIZA traditionally praises the well-known ones: 'Awesome organizations do great work' - and I sign them all - 'we must strengthen them and help them'. You're saying all that. You're concerned about why, while you say that, we're in the last ranking? I'm asking straight. Has the control and criticism of these organisations and the fact that there are signs of opacity in them? Does this create a stir to the one who wants to volunteer? Is he worried he's going to waste his time? She is concerned that there are no registers that make a distinction in order to be able to say "this one is not at all in the register, but, at all, it has not been in anywhere, so let me see if I am strengthening it, she has also entered it, in fact she has additional requirements". Is this working towards transparency and, therefore, to strengthen participation? If we do not do all of this, how exactly will volunteering be strengthened? Because you're gonna have conversations about how good he is? And not only you, but we're all gonna have talks about how good volunteering is. Well done, he's great. Yes! Last in the rankings! Well done, it's very important that you all go on volunteering. Last ones! If an institutional framework is not established that strengthens integrity, transparency and builds a relationship of confidence through the institutional framework itself, how will we achieve this? We're coming to do this, you're voting against it! So, here you are going to be exposed to these issues. I now come to a number of specific issues that have been raised. Forgive me, but I would like to say a word, because what Mr Hatzigiannakis said is that he touched me. It says that the bill was wronged because Mr Theodorikos tabled his amendment. Note: Here it depends and what priorities each one puts. Here you have an institutional framework to discuss, which concerns the Civil Society, about legal regulations, about how it works, about a lot of people and we all agree that it is of great importance. You have chosen to discuss an amendment. This is your right, how you assess the seriousness of the issues. I understand. You think that, because this is not very much of the interest to you, it does not say anything, it does not have a job here, it does not have a opposition party to make, you now prefer to discuss the amendment. But objectively, what is major and essential is the issue of the draft law. The bill is not wrong with tabling the amendment. The bill is unfair to you in your attitude. You are wrong, because you choose to discuss a matter that of course matters to you. Obviously, everything that is being discussed in Parliament is of value, but in relation to the major, you are making a mistaken hierarchy. From what I have seen, the other provisions have not been very much involved, even though they have very important institutional provisions. I don't have time to develop them. Only for what he has dealt with in relation to the Municipality of Aristotle, and because I also have a sensitivity to the issues of judicial decisions, to clarify it. The issue of historic seats is not a matter of photography. Eighteen municipalities with historic seats. It's eighteen, not one. When did the issue of historic seats arise? That's when the councils of the municipalities became. In the combinations of the capodist municipalities, then with the 2010 Act, an issue emerged as to what the municipality will be and then the legislature accepted that in some municipalities, due to the historical nature of certain areas, it would also recognise the existence of a historic seat. These in 2010. Since then, there have been historical seats. In historical seats, then, a choice has been made not now, but then. It was, of course, the law that all the services of the municipality had to go to the new seat of the municipality. However, perhaps by inertia elections - local choices made by the municipalities - some of these historic seats remained. Indeed, there was an appeal from residents of this municipality, this case was brought to a crisis in the Council of State and the Council of State, in fact, correctly read the law - well said the Council of State - what he said? That all the services must go to the new seat. That's right. But this obviously creates a tension. Why? However, at the moment when we have been talking for eleven years, namely from the application of the law and obviously, there are services in the historic seat. We are not now taking the services to the historic seat, nor are we able now to go to the historic seat, nor can a mayor now who has no service to carry a service to the historic seat, but if, for twenty years, there is a need for a service to be operated in the historic seat, after that decision of the Council of State. There is no infringement of the decision of the Council of State because it is a new arrangement following the decision of the Court of Justice. The court judged a law. Today we are forming another legislative environment. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So, here I understand the policy within this municipality, but the regulation is perfectly correct. I want to stand up to provisions that also regulate a matter. I'll say it because it's important. It is a special issue, it concerns local government, but for me it is extremely important. It concerns the issue of the derogating mobility of officials to the municipalities. I shall conclude, Mr President, in two minutes. Thank you for your tolerance. As you know, mobility was legislated in 2016. Here, in this Chamber, we have discussed, and since 2016, more specific mobility provisions have been introduced, i.e. derogations from the mobility system of a hundred and fifty numbers. SYRIZA had acted from 2016 to 2019. SYRIZA introduced mobility, and at the same time, he started dismantling it. Therefore, a hundred derogations were made. I completely annulled about eighty with previous legislation in order to strengthen the integrity of the mobility system. And now we're taking one more intervention. What does that intervention say? That it will not move without the consent and approval of the municipalities and regions - with our additional intervention, which we are now doing - with the derogations of the mobility that are left over. In short, not with central mobility. In central mobility we go normally, but where we still have derogations from the basic mobility system, in order for the officials of the municipalities to move there, the consent of the mayor or regional will be required. This is central and important because derogating mobility does not depend on all the conditions of the mobility system, namely, the existence of 65%, other conditions that we place on the Central Mobility Commission when this process is being carried out, but basically someone can go and take them without asking anyone and without any conditions being met. This made the municipalities very difficult. I therefore consider that we are also legislating on this provision to strengthen the competence of the mobility system. And I must say that last year I find that it works very well. We are already in the second cycle of mobility and it is one of the mechanisms that I think has largely helped to balance needs. He's still having his issues and his difficulties, but I think he's getting a lot better. And since we are talking - by closing down - of lost opportunities, I consider that, first and foremost, major opposition, the Civic Opposition has lost another chance today. You lose opportunities to show that you can monitor a reform pace, that you understand the necessity and value of reforms that are justified within society, which are a requirement and a need for society and which is recommended by the Ministry of the Interior. And I think that for the parliamentary forces it would be very good for them to draw up these initiatives and not let the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on its own credit. But here the credit lies in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, because it is precisely because it can and can support the work of the Government effectively, leaving out the other political forces which in things absolutely unprecedented cannot do the least, consensual and deprive themselves of their self-evident power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, I do not think there is any point in giving follow-up to the debate on the draft law. We have been talking about it at the JRC Members' seats in the committees. We asked the Minister a question. Will the volunteers of the project be counted as workers, as employees or as unemployed? And in order to avoid answering, the actual answer, you dumped the ball on the bench and said they wouldn't be counted as either employed or unemployed will be registered as volunteers. Good. Let's take it. We will see this in practice how volunteers will be exploited in the project. But there's something else coming up. You accept that volunteering, voluntary work must be linked to the country's GDP if I am not mistaken. Isn't that right? You accept it. So how will you measure the participation of voluntary, unpaid work in GDP? As to what will you present, as an intangible wage cost, as a yield value, as a result of goods produced or services offered to produce the final result? What are you going to do with it? You're being fooled and fooled inconveniently! Because volunteers will work, they will do live work - it matters - and the final result will be fruitful not of the one who produced it, even with his own will, but - who; - the foundations, these well-being institutions that hide behind these agencies, namely the non-governmental organisations, the Soros, each of the Soros, who will establish and control these Civil Society organisations. That's the reality. And you are particularly interested in linking volunteering to GDP. Because it's too low in Greece. It's at 0.1%, when in other European countries it's at 3%, it's at 5%, it's at 6%. In Canada it is at 8.3% and approaching the construction and banking industry. So who does not know that the financial dependence of non-governmental organisations, these agencies, is directly linked to the values and visions of large capital? In our view, these organisations are antibiotics to the exploitation system, and that is why they are always far from the organized folk and class movement. So workers and young people have nothing but to reject the logic of the supposedly practicable, the individual, the evacuation of popular discontent. So, in this direction, all parties agree, and that is why you have disorientated the conversation completely, that is, you threw the ball in the stands. No debate on the bill or at least the majority of the debate left elsewhere. In relation to the amendments: in Amendment Nos 1171 and 114 we will vote'represents'. Let me just say in relation to the staff of OTA development agencies, in other words, Article 8, that we are radically opposed to development agencies. They actually take over the responsibilities of municipal councils. They are moving rapidly across the country with the aim of moving business interests more quickly with the assistance of the local administration, with the posting of workers to serve them. These are companies that will distribute money at once, away from public accounting and elementary transparency, and overcoming existing services. They will undertake to conclude, supervise and supervise public studies and projects of the TBRs and technical and administrative support for issues relating to the competences of technical services and construction services. Instead of recruiting permanent staff, equipment and support for OTA services, it will be necessary immediately to regulate issues for the uninterrupted service development of seconded staff by the local government agencies, already planned, giving them the possibility of using the management position for their quickest service development, the overcoming of others. In relation to the amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection of a general number 1170 and a specialist of 113 we will say 'no' in total. Of course, we say that in an amendment there are many articles that you can say 'yes', in others you can say 'no', in others you can say 'no'. But it binds you to the finals you have to say. So in this amendment we will say in total 'no' even though there is enough that we could say 'Paris'. In Article 8 we are not curious about it, but we are recording the discourse of the other parties on the regulation of matters concerning the election of organs and representative trade unions of the Greek Police. As we said at the outset, an amendment which is unacceptable and reactive. And you narrowed the whole confrontation conveniently for both of us for the New Democracy and for SYRIZA, I would say both suspicious and disorientative, on the issue of the NSRF, when everyone knows what the role of the NSRF today or yesterday in monitoring and suppressing the People's Movement is. And in order to avoid misunderstanding, we are voting against the provision for the transfer of personnel to the Greek Police. But in any case, you didn't find a word about this stubborn provision that abolishes the simple analogue and imposes the single voter on the Greek Police at all times at the expense of the trade unionism of the Greek Police, which people won after years. For all these reasons, we have said that we are voting against. We have said that we are voting against these two amendments and on the articles we shall be voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, too. And the reason for Mr Kamine, the rapporteur from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I did not intend to answer for a second, but we will be voting in favour of the bill. Listening to your speech, I can't, I'm tempted to answer, because sometimes I have the impression that your rhetoric cowardice - which is very great, I admire it - tends you to underestimate our intelligence. I am referring to the subject of the amendment. You told us, in a few words, that first of all you were doing us a favor for not bringing it in at the last minute and incorporating it into the bill in the first place, and secondly, you told us that we are wronging the bill by insisting so much on this amendment to the NRA. You know very well that the Constitution says that a bill that has amendments irrelevant to its main object is not even introduced for discussion. It's Article 74 of the Constitution. You will tell me: 'Thank you very much, Mr Kamine, all the bills contain such provisions'. Yeah. I am tempted, however, because you have shown us this practice to be absolutely legitimate. And secondly, this bill, which is, in general, a good bill, I believe that you yourself challenged it with this amendment to the EEA. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. Mr. Micopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vorides, I have listened very carefully and I am delighted that we have developed this dialogue in committee and today in plenary. And I will admit that you are a glimpse of words, but do you know what, Mr. Voridis? It is very easy to use a few words, which have indeed been formulated in statements by members of the Civilian Opposition, to stand on certain points, in order, in the end, to build an argument and create impressions. One did not say, nor did I, as rapporteur, that we do not want control, because we want a non-transparent procedure so that all voluntary organisations enter the special register or the simple register in the database. We said the bill was all about it. In other words, control over the introduction of organisations in the special register and in the simple database has not developed specific policies. It was very clear what we talked about. We talked about the state's interconnection with organisations. We talked about issues relating to interoperability of registries. Again, you haven't explained, and you have escaped, what about the rest of the nine registries operating in the ministries? What will happen with the registries in the regions and the registries? It is therefore very easy, Mr Vorides, to use half the truth to tell a great lie. You have done the same to the committees this time, in relation to the offences and the own-initiative search for the criminal record. One did not say by SYRIZA that we want to serve the administrations of these structures, people who traded drugs. But a man, who was dependent, went through the process of rehab, couldn't he - disfellowshiped, drug use - become a member of command, as disqualified? Should the whole organization leave the register? Will it be convicted? I, Mr Vorides, am in favour of this logic: every legislative procedure must, in my opinion, produce political added value. And political superiority is judged on two levels. The first level is parliamentarians. I do not understand, to which New Democracy Parliamentary Group have you addressed? Three speakers were in the Chamber today, so the New Democracy Parliamentary Group showed how much it welcomes your legislative initiative and how much it understands it. And the second level is whether your legislative initiative produces measurable results in the field of applied policy. I therefore call on you to hold a special meeting of the Committee on Public Administration in a few months' time, to see the results of the legislation. Let us see what organisations entered the special register, how they were financed, whether volunteers' participation in the Civil Society has increased and whether we have escaped from the last post and we have gone up one, even two, even half. We'll recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Minister has the floor to testify to a legislature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. We are tabling another piece of legislation, which is again completely legal. There's nothing else. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Let the page in. 466
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u333	Thank you. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. I wasn't going to talk again either. Besides, Makis Voridis is so arrogant, what do you say after the speech of his own, which lasted quite a while? However, I wanted to highlight two points, because Mr Zachariadis mentioned earlier what I said to him in relation to the state. There is a great ideological difference that we in New Democracy have with you on the left, which I understand and respect, but I do not think you have any idea what we mean when we say state. You mean a state that enters everywhere, only doesn't come into our house - it can go in there too. We don't want that. We want a state that performs its duties, as is happening throughout the world. Another thing is that the Member State which exercises monetary policy, which pursues foreign policy, which pursues a pandemic policy and another state that goes into everything. Obviously, Mr Zachariadis has confused this, he does not understand it completely, and I just wanted to clarify that. I also wanted to make a little clarification, because I understand the difficulty that the loved one has - you know, with the KKE Members, I have a lot of disagreement, but I am all very fond of them - Mr Syriakis, who does not understand what volunteering means. I understand that. Volunteerism, however, Mr Synergyaki, is that tomorrow, Vorides, I and you could go help in a pool, collect garbage from a beach, and we hardly do so, and help to protect against fires. This is voluntary action. We've got our job, we're not unemployed. No unemployed, no busy. It's a whole different thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u335	Is that what we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u336	That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u337	Is that what we're talking about here? Fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u338	That is what this is all about, and I think you have not understood it sufficiently. There are too many pensioners - unfortunately because Greece is the country with most pensioners in Europe - who would want young people, many times under the age of sixty, who could contribute with voluntary work and help their fellow citizens. That's what we're talking about. Finally, I would like to say something that I consider important because it has been mentioned. I haven't learned to chew my words. You are right, only three Members of the New Democracy spoke of this bill. But they did not talk, because they did not respond to the bill. Unfortunately, I have been expecting more speakers from both the Communism and the Opposition. We need more parliamentary reason in this House, not to feel the Member of the European Parliament castrated that he does not do his duty and at the same time to do his duty, he must also be present. It's both true. I would like to say at this point that we as a New Democracy, not only are supporting this bill, we consider it not a loser, but a win-win opportunity, and we will prove it in practice in a short, hopefully, time and that is why we will be voting in favour of it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleagues for the debate and for the contribution. It is also a matter of recognition by Parliament, even at this stage, which is the second and the end of the debate. This bill has been very much an attempt by Angelos Syrigos and Alex Patelis, the Prime Minister's adviser, and shows and expresses the interest of the Prime Minister himself in civil society, as well as in volunteering. Mr. Kamine, two things in your observation. The first thing, which is, if you will, my complaint, is that when I hear, having 15 years in Parliament and seeing what I have seen, that what we, this government, are doing today is a bad legalism, I feel they really have no contact with those who say so with our parliamentary reality. That's the complaint. As far as the legal part is concerned, to be perfectly good, the concept of amendment related to it is, however, linked, as I read it and interpret it, and whether the signature of the Minister discussed in the main bill is required for its deposit. This provision, this amendment, which has been tabled because it requires movements of personnel, has transfers of personnel, and is subject to the signature of the Minister of the Interior. So it's typically no problem. But the issues of substance, you have discussed them with the Minister responsible. Mr Synonymakis, because your question - and I thank you - gives the opportunity to highlight one aspect of the bill, which I think we did not develop sufficiently, I would like to say that there are arrangements for volunteers for the first time. For the first time, voluntary provision of work becomes an institutional framework. It defines who's a volunteer. It defines what is the organisation to which this work can be provided. And there are favourable regulations for volunteers. At the same time, for the first time there is an institutional way of registering volunteers, precisely to protect employees, precisely to avoid circumvention, precisely so that no civil society organisation, such an organisation, can claim to have volunteers, while in fact it has workers. So why do we put it on "ERGAN"? Not because it will be like the 'ERGAN'. There will obviously be a special place, a special point for this registration, Mr President. In your question 'will he be a worker or a unemployed person'? The answer may be a volunteer and the unemployed volunteer may also be the worker. Not the worker in the Civil Society Organization. That's where it can't be. But I can be at my job in the morning and do volunteer work elsewhere in the afternoon. So this forms a level of control. And be careful - here now you have a lot of experience, especially in the workplace - you have seen that it is one of the most critical points: that it is heavy, that it is bureaucratic, that how we do it, how the entries are to be made, etc. Why? It is precisely because it forms a control field, precisely to protect workers' rights. And because I have heard an observation from the organisations - I think they also said this by our parliamentary group, I think that the Qualified Opposition has said this - that there may be specific conditions and specific circumstances which are absolutely urgent and unpredictable, that no one can do this, and that is why they are within the legislative framework. We have made this provision so as to allow for an exception. With regard to the issues you mentioned, Mr Micopula, I did not say, on the contrary, that I made you out of general criticism at a personal level. But, on the other hand, I must tell you again that a party and a parliamentary group have a uniform assessment. In other words, you made some points, which I consider to be a response - I do not know if you judge them sufficient or not - in committee. For example, you said ‘what is the relationship between the existing registers and the two registries, which are created?’ And I told you there are no records for us to worry about right now. In any case, there is transition to start-up and, indeed, significant transition. Why? Because we have to legislate. We've got to fix it. Then there is provision for ministerial decisions to be taken, with which ambition is to abolish the registers. However, this now requires the consolidation of specific legislation existing for each register in relation to the general framework it sets out. So there is this migration, which is also a transformation of computers, but it is also a process of getting married, to say it is legislation. It's not just the bases. It's also the legislation that he must marry. And what did I ask? I have asked here for a legislative decision, which you say 'but the most important thing is that you take it with legislative authority'. What do you want Parliament to do now to legislate on the details of the transfer from one register to another? You have a bad, wrong impression of the concept of legislation. Legislation has a more general character and when it forms the institutional framework, so it gives Parliament its approval in the general direction, then technical details - because it is really technical - that is exactly how the registers will be migrated, how the registers will be buttoned, how the legislation will marry and be consolidated so that the financial institution does not lose its right to finance under the terms it wants, but at the same time the requirements of these general registers that will be in the Ministry of the Interior are also a technical exercise. Do you want this technical exercise to be carried out by Parliament? What can Parliament do with it? Parliament has given basic political approval. He's given the direction. There's nothing critical. There is no political risk in this process. There are, from there on, technical details of application. Be careful and to say, therefore, what - which you are doing well and say it - is also 'doing nothing. It only does auditing things." Nothing's going on? The tax evasions, what are they? Anything? How would you be motivated? How would you encourage the Civil Society to act? So what would you do to her? What would you tell them? Bravo? What would you do to them? Would you tell them? Do we recognize your value? A whole framework has been established here, which, to know what we say and what we say, the estimate is that it will cost about EUR 150 million a year. Is that anything, EUR 150 million a year? So here's the premium, there's the incentive. In fact, what motive? Because I heard that, too. It says 'little, big'. First of all, I say again: I didn't say small, large. I said who wants to get into that shape. But that shape, yes, has prerequisites. It has prerequisites for transparency, in my opinion not so heavy, in the face of what it gives. But, yes, we have to do something. It says, the trend - I heard this as a view - in Europe is to go to small organisations and not to large organisations. I don't decide on trends. This is also a difference, indeed a difference, a political perception and philosophy. I don't want to regulate the Civil Society in the sense that you say it, manipulate it, control it, tell her what she'll do. But be careful when it comes to giving tax exemptions or when it is to give funding, then the state can set the conditions. That's not what happens on their own. It happens because it is precisely within the Civil Society that you decide under what conditions to motivate. And you're saying that I'm asking for this motive. And what am I asking? Why do you feel too much about what is being asked? It will take all tax exemptions, it will take over EUR 50,000 and EUR 70,000 and EUR 80,000 and EUR 90,000 and it will not have a vowed auditor to know what happened with a signature. We need to know what happened. What he managed. We're not gonna put a record on him. In command. You say to me: 'What about the drug addict who is no longer?' But, please, we don't consider drug dependence here as such. We are considering it in relation to the execution of criminal offences. I do not consider whether anyone is or is not, because he may have such a dependency, but has no criminal involvement. It does not mean that whoever is toxic-dependent has criminal involvement. But what if he does? I don't care? So, do I have a convicted drug addict and go fund him in command? Let me accept your claim that he, the trader who is doomed, will be in a drug addicted organization. Don't you see any dangers in that? If you don't see them, I see them. I want to tell you one last thing to close. Thank you all for the good comments on my rhetoric abilities. Be well. The question is: Are the rhetoric abilities or the truth of the arguments? That's what should be of interest to you. Be careful, and I'm saying it from my job, I'm talking from my profession, my office, the law, I don't think you're lying to me, and I don't think saying it well makes things good. Cases are won when you're right about telling the truth. So what you really need to consider, but it requires a deeper structural review - I have spoken about SYRIZA's strategic deadlocks in this Chamber - is why often, not always, you are on the wrong side of the argument and very often on the wrong side of history. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Protection of volunteering, strengthening of civil society's action, tax incentives to strengthen the benefit of the Community. and other provisions.’; I would remind you that a request has been made for a nominal amendment on the Ministerial Amendment number 1170 and a special number 113 by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance, which will take place tomorrow afternoon at 17.30 p.m., as we have announced earlier, followed by the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council and the entire bill. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendment with a general number of 1171 and a specialist of 114, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, fifty-five articles and one amendment. Make sure that you have voted on all the areas included in the vote. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u342	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u343	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u344	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior "Protection of volunteering, strengthening of the civil society's action, tax incentives to strengthen the socially beneficial action of the Communities. and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and Amendment. I would remind you that holding the roll-call vote on the amendment and voting on the entire bill will take place at tomorrow's sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-13-S1-commons.u345	With the consent of the House at 20.13' the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday, December 14, 2021, at 17.30', on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: 1) the adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Protection of volunteering, strengthening of the civil society's action, tax incentives to strengthen the utilization of the community. and other provisions’ and 2) only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2022’.
