ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 4-11-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting, of 4-11-2021 concerning the resolution to all draft laws: ‘Guide with certainty: Modernising the framework for training and examination of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, provisions concerning the driving of persons with disabilities, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest and other provisions, the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport’, ‘Driving the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part,’, ‘Statement of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part’, ‘State of the European Union and of the Member States of the Union of the other part’, ‘State of the Union’, ‘State of the Union’, ‘State of the Union and of the Union’, ‘States of the Union and of the Union’,]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 8 November 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 114/29-10-2021 topical question by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 136/1-11-2021, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnanias, of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct payment of aid to producers in Atolokarnania". 3. The question by No 127/1-11-2021 was raised by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extreme problems from the merger of the Paediatric with the Children's Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)". 4. The Question No 122-1-11-2021 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Superior and murderous police violence". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 115/29-10-20201 topical question by MP Kastoria of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Illegal distribution of the National Reserve for Basic Aid Rights in the Kastoria IP". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 137/1-11-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Integration of the earthquakes of the vast areas into an energy clearing programme and integration of the buildings to be rebuilt in the "Economy" - Unequivocally the "freedom" of electricity accounts". 3. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Giokas at number 128/1-11-2021 is a topical question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The pollution from the illegal landfill and the need to restore and decontamination of the position of Magulas in Aspropyrgos". 4. The 131/1-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on "Direct need for compensation and rehabilitation in Corfu because of "Ballou". 5. The 117/29-10-2021 topical question by MP V'Piraeus of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphona Alexiadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Proclamation as a preserved monument of PPC's factory in Keratsini". 6. The question by number 138/1-11-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great problems are created by the government's decision to allocate pastures - large reductions in subsidies". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Archeological sites in western Athens and its history, abandoned by the state". 8. The 118/29-10-2021 topical question by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vasilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'January' - A year after the report'. 9. The question raised by Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou on "Support measures for enterprises and workers in the labour market and the introduction of a "special payment" due to emergencies". earthquake areas 10. The question, under number 133/1-11-2021, is a topical question by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Direct restoration of gross injustice against pensioners, on the taxation of retroactives for the period 2015-2016, on the 2012 cuts". 11. The question under number 134/1-11-2021 by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: "Immediately the need for the construction of anti-military works for the recovery of the waters of Kifissos and Ilissos river". 12. The 135/1-11-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The 70% of municipal districts of Heraklion Prefecture declared in an emergency because of the earthquake of 27 September are outside housing assistance (S.A.(')'. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 141/1-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The government of many reasons contributes to an ongoing environmental and social crime." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House that the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows. Questions Nos 125/1-11-2021 and 126/1-11-2021 will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Questions Nos 120/29-10-2021 and 121/29-10-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection Christos Stylianides. The question under number 113/29-10-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou and by number 130/1-11-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Georgios Karagiannis. Also, the question under No 129/1-11-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Sophia Zacharakis. Then we begin with our second question under number 125/1-11-2021, with the second question from the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papanastassis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Let the persecution be stopped against journalist Nikos Boyopoulos". The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on October 21st, there was the trial of the Board of Governors of the Armed Forces Union, EASA, against journalist Nikos Boyopoulos. The above-mentioned slander journalist was accused by him of paying EUR 70,000 for moral harm, as well as his imprisonment for six months “as a means of executing the decision to be given”. On the occasion of the prosecution against the journalist, it was the posts he made on his radio show and also in his article in August 2020, on the unscrupulous anti-communist fuses of this Union in Grammos and Vitsi. In other words, Boyopoulos is a defendant, because he has also laid down the position of the board of directors of this association - I stress, the board of directors of this association - it does not concern all the returnees - that these events concern the fallen persons in business 1946-1949 against communist gangsters. He is also accused of highlighting the fact that these unacceptable fascists "prived" with their presence all the prominent "fascists" of the abductor of modern Greek history, i.e. associations of basophrenics, various fascists, nostalists of the nazis and their associates. Among them were representatives of the criminal Nazi organisation of the Golden Dawn and also the representative of the Nazi structure of the convicted for participation and address in a Cassidiaris criminal organisation. No, Minister, that's not worth tens of thousands of Missing Army soldiers. We do not adopt these ridiculousities. This political vulnerability does not represent them. In addition, in order to say things with their name, the EASA's board of directors with a reduction in all the Mississippi soldiers has been elected with a one-digit percentage of them. He doesn't represent the retired. Instead of those flowers of the board of directors dealing with the real serious problems of the returnees, i.e. consistently deprived by the accuracy and taxation of pensions, cut off one-sided, government refusal to apply judicial decisions justifying their actions for financial claims, the humiliating and dangerously degraded treatment of them and their family members in military hospitals, and many other unsolved problems instead of moving in the direction of uniting the tens of thousands of tested people from government policy to claim a decent life, this dragon chooses practices that lead to the displacement of the returnees, political disorientation and inactivation of them. And here comes the question: is this their choice, or is it a performance process? In any case, the content of these events reproduces post-ambulance hysteria, fuels anti-communism. Madam President, I will be briefer in my denture. In the speeches of ESDC officials - and not just past administrative councils - they are engaged in a disgraceful crescendo of anti-communism, they adopt practices and phrases taken out of the bloody years of thousands of executed, thousands of exiles, the dominance of state and para-state violence. They are pouring water into the mill of Euro-Union anti-communism. It's them. The fact that ESAS as a legal person governed by public law is a body directly subject to the Ministry of National Defence is directly supervised by it and through forced dictatorship laws of Metaxas of '36 and Papadopoulos in '72 typically represents all the soldiers of the Mississippi Army, Minister, makes your own government accountable. Then we ask you: What measures as a government do you intend to take to stop persecution now against journalist Nikos Boyopoulos? It is, in fact, the persecution of the own freedom of press, but also the obvious attempt to succumb to the journalistic speech. What measures, too, as a government do you intend to take to stop these disgustingly provoking ESAS, a body that the Ministry oversees you closely? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague. Opportunities to clear up a number of issues which concern publicity, of course, but let me say not with their clear dimension. First of all, the Ministry of National Defence certainly does not give instructions to the judiciary how to judge a case since a dispute arises in justice neither does "face control" in Grammos nor is it, of course, intended to serve the Left account of extreme right slidings, etc., a narrative alone. I can only tell you that on the issues of the anniversary events organised with care of the returnee association and its local annexes, the political leadership has received - the Ministry of National Defence is understood - a clear position in response to the question by colleagues from the KINAL 15-9-2021. He gave a tone whose essence is that it would be a good thing for the tone to fall, and this hate rhetoric reproduced to stop reproducing because it does not do well. There is differences in the past and we do not want to deal with the past but with the future, but without forgetting exactly what happened in the past. I will therefore repeat today that these events were organised by the retired persons' association, which is a self-governed legal person governed by public law and acts on the basis of the decision of the legally elected board of directors, in accordance with the provisions of its private law. In these events, as far as I know, public order has been observed. In any case, I state clearly that the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence encourages national reconciliation initiatives and considers that these events - carried out from all sides - in Grammos in those days are not feasts, but events of memory, reflection and away from every sense of hatred. I also believe that the chapter of the civil war has been definitively closed and in an institutional way. As regards the speech of the President of the ESDC to Grammos, this is posted on the returnees' association website. I heard her carefully. I didn't hear the phrases developed in your prototype anywhere. The most extreme - let me say - was the term 'instant'. He used the same term in his recent speech and the Honourable Secretary-General of the JRC in Mezurlos Larissa, so it comes from the audiovisual material that is posted on the website of "RIZOSOPASTI" -13.22" is the exact time to post it. From there on, a court battle between the U.S.A. and the journalist Mr. Boyopoulos has begun. You are asking us to intervene in Greek justice. Justice judges. Once both sides consider that there is a difference, since one side considers that its reputation or personality has been affected, it has some rights from the law to appeal to justice and justice to judge and, respectively, to give final judgment on this dispute, who is right. We do not, however, interfere with Greek justice. We let her judge. In these regimes, at least on this government, there are no telephones in the judiciary how to decide on a private dispute. Let me clarify, of course, that this dispute between union and Boyopoulos did not arise and, after the Grams events last August, did not arise. It has evolved since March of this year. In particular, on 22-32-21, the returnees' association notified this journalist of an extrajudicial event about something he said on a radio station broadcast on March 5, 2021. And that's what I heard. And it would be a good thing, as I said, in the context of this rhetoric that tones fall. In this country, you know, a lot of people have been permanently ravaged for fighting, even reproducing causes of fights from the past. Because we have many problems to deal with in the future, we should avoid differences that trigger differences and eventually lead to some of these differences even here at Parliament's headquarters in order to control the government for something that someone said and responded with designations and so on. We should avoid these and create a climate if they are to be avoided. I'll see what happened with the retired people's association. It may also be there to use or use expressions of openness in general. But at this particular event no hybrid or insulting expression was used. One thing which affects the honour and reputation of the other is something that can be brought about by this insult, on one side or on the other, in justice, on the basis of what is provided for by the law. So let's stay on these. And I close my prototype, summarizing and repeating, that there is no political dimension in this matter for the Ministry of National Defence, and that is an absolute case and competence of Greek justice, which, after all, has already started to decide on this dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes. You told me you'd be back soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have the feeling that your hypnotizes your status as a lawyer against the association of soldiers in the army. I wanted to raise two points: firstly, you spoke of self-employed. I am going to talk about B.D.434/81, which gives you the obligation as Minister of National Defence to appoint the Board of Governors of the Liberties Association, which is, of course, elected. If you don't appoint it, you don't have the right to 'hand a pen', to use this popular expression. Second presumption attesting to the direct relationship: On October 15, your Ministry's service sent you members to the retired people's association. She sought her opinion and her views on the events of the Grammus. On the 18th day of the month, the F959/43209/18-10-2021, EASA document. But they lied to you in this document. And that's why? In paragraph 3 of this document you are told: 'The association never mentioned the designation of communist gangmakers'. Two months ago the President of the Annex to the Association of Kastoria, Maj-Gen Ilias Georgeopoulos, began his speech "Call of the Pestons": "Pesons against the battle Vitsi - Grammos, Officers and Armed Forces of the Armed Forces...", etc., "they fell heroically fighting for freedom of the country, against the Communist comrades". Obviously, the gentlemen of the ESDC are playing with words, not official announcements, in the official speeches. Note: at the time this general, the president of the EAS, expressed his enthusiastically applauding these positions. So let's leave the self-employed next door. Now, as far as the oblivion is concerned, which if you want me to take it well, and as an admonition to the EAA. The newspaper "NATIONAL EHO", which, if you want to, aims to inform the retired, turned it into a brochure. They put the theoretical rinsing out of the treasonal role of security battalions, an unscrupulous historian Yiannis Buga. What did he do in this interview? And Buga didn't see the light and came in, called him the board of the ESDC. The whole of his effort was to accuse the Communist Party of Greece, by paraphrasing, tearing and rewriting pages in the official card of the Retirement Association and, above all, degrading the remorse that your Government and the political ancestors post-war, referred to courts, trials as docs. All the effort was that. And this historian, hosted by the returnees' association on the first page of the newspaper, was the classic speaker of the Golden Dawn in Melilla and other events and theorists, as well as an honorer of the journalist's headlines in "MAKELEIO", Chios. This is the attempt of the deportee association for oblivion and they continue to provoke in this card. The question is: these masters of the board of directors - and I stress it, why are retired people tortured - have they seized themselves and played a role or executed orders?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Comrade, I'll start where you closed down. If you imply that they perform orders in consultation with the political leadership, that is obviously not the case. To claim this, I consider it outrageous. I think I was clear in my theology. And, as you said, the Union's views were asked for, the Union's views were given the service. You claim that they do not echo the truth and the reality, but the Ministry did ask for explanations, and they were provided. From what I understand from all the development of your question, this is not so much the particular difference between union and Boyopoulos, but the general behaviour of some of the elements of the returnee association that, for reasons of what you have developed, bothers you on a lasting basis. Look. But here, we have come to answer a guaranteed dispute, which has already taken the course of justice and justice. If the menstruation develops behaviors and activities that bother you, we are here to see what exactly it does. The fact that you are being disturbed does not mean that for some reason it is outside the limits governing its operation. It's a self-sufficient instrument. We'll see. And, of course, the illustration is that tones should fall and that kind of characterisation should be avoided, but on the other hand. You know I said it in protolog, we are all ready to fight in this country on issues that go back to a black past, which is good - and I say it as a representative of the government - to forget to go forward, because there are many challenges that we face, even going ahead with the security challenges in our wider region, as we will see in the next question that we are going to discuss here. It is good to avoid these extremes and expressions of public speech anywhere. We will do our supervisory duty, but the union is a legal person, too, governed by self-government rules. Of course, I am speaking, as a member of this government, neither a police officer of free expression or a police officer of the speech here nor of course responsible for who is invited and how they behave at an event like the one we are dealing with today. Our concern at the Ministry of National Defence is to do everything we can to help and strengthen the Armed Forces in a difficult and disturbed and provocative era. And if it is possible to leave behind what we were to be divided and separated from in the past without forgetting, but going forward would be good. A lot of poison was spilled, enough hatred stopped, enough blood leaked from these days in this country. I think that it is good to remember all this and to find the strength to drop the tons of everyone on their own public speech and from the responsibility that each individual holds in order to be able to go further and further. As far as this dispute is concerned - I repeat and close with it - I think we all trust the independence of Greek justice in deciding whether the individuality, honour and reputation of one of them have been affected in public. And I leave it there, and I close it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with our fourth question with the Minister of National Defence 126/1-11-2021 topical question by Evia MP of the Communist Party of Greece, George Marino, on the subject: "No involvement of Greece in the imperialist designs, the closure of US bases, the non-shipment of Greek armed forces in Sahel, Africa, return of the platoon Patriot from Saudi Arabia and all the military departments from imperialistic missions abroad." The question will be answered by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the government is determined to send Greek military forces to the military slaughterhouse in Mali, in Sahel, Africa, to assist the French troops fighting there for the interests of the French monopolies. You sent Patriot to Saudi Arabia to cover the gap in the withdrawal of US missiles to the Indian - Pacific, and the government hides that Patriot missiles are part of the US anti-Iran aggressive plans and is involved in major adventures. The Greek-French and Greek-American agreement of indefinite duration for the bases has been signed and you hide that both agreements are aggressive, link to the dangerous designs of NATO and the European Union. Your policy, like that of SYRIZA, which initiated the strategic dialogue with the USA, turned the country into a war bulwark, targeted it as the statements by Russia and Iran show, puts our people at great risk. With the so-called implementation arrangement, before the ratification agreement even comes to the House, you are rushing to deliver the military units to the Americans for the implementation of Russia's plan tour. Your policy is extremely dangerous. The claim that, with the deepest involvement in imperialist designs, Turkish aggression will be dealt with on several occasions. Greece is a member of NATO and the European Union, it has years of American bases, takes part in imperialistic missions and Greek-Turkish relations are exacerbated. Turkish claims are escalating. So we ask, what are the Greek Armed Forces doing in the Persian Gulf in Africa? What does the missions abroad have to do with the sovereignty and sovereign rights of the country? How does the government place itself in the fact that the policy of involvement and the American bases have turned Greece into an imperialist intervention and war bloc and put our people at great risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u12	With time limitations for a wider geopolitical analysis, I will try to explain that if the security challenges of the wider region grow in the eras we live and if there are destabilising trends in our geopolitical environment, Greece does not give rise to the fact that it is strengthening with a Patriot symphony of Saudi Arabia or sending troops to Mali, it intends to send in anyway. This is not why the area is destabilising. We are reacting to this fluid political environment by understanding the rights and obligations we have in the context of the country's alliances. Because when you're an ally to some organization or ally in a country, you don't only have rights from this relationship, but you also have obligations. We are working on the moves that we are making to develop the country's position as a pillar of stability and security provider, but also as a reliable and consistent ally. So I've been catching them all along. The participation of our country with military personnel and in countries of the Gulf, and in particular in Saudi Arabia with the pyroarchy of Patriot, contributes only to the protection of the country's critical energy infrastructure, with obvious political benefits for Greece. This participation gives Greece added value and prestige, after establishing the conviction that we are security providers for the region. It has become clear that our country has not sent Patriots there to develop aggressive actions or to engage in conflicts in Saudi Arabia with other countries in the region, but only to defend these critical energy infrastructures clearly. You know that the Prime Minister was in Saudi Arabia the other day, he met with the political leadership there and discussed with great success the prospect of investment from that country in our country. I think that results from the allied relationship that has developed, under the conditions that I described you between Greece and Saudi Arabia. Now, as regards the 'Takuba' operation in Mali, this is a French initiative involving a coalition of Member States of the European Union. I mentioned the other day in the debate on the Greek-French defence agreement that twelve countries are taking part with staff in Mali, not thousands of soldiers but missions of tens or hundreds of soldiers to do what? To help the Armed Forces of this country gain the necessary operational autonomy to deal with terrorist organisations which threaten the peace and stability in the Sahel, in an area which may escape our attention at first reading, but which is a potential area of great destabilisation, as well as our geopolitical interests or the geopolitical interests of the European Union, since it is adjacent to areas of vital geopolitical interest for the European Union, that is, North Africa and the Mediterranean. And then it's our door. In this regard, any destabilisation of the region has been said to affect Europe's wider geopolitical environment, maritime security, with a great risk of creating, as a result of this destabilisation, additional migratory flows towards Europe. You understand the impact on our country. Informatively, the Drought Army has been holding a CSCE meeting since 2015 and in accordance with relevant mandates given at the time by the CSCE participated in that region of Western Africa as part of the European Union Training Mission in Mali, ‘European Union Educational Mission Mali’. This participation, of course, concerns the periodic disposition of two directors, i.e. at the level of trainers, to the staff of the company concerned in Bamako, the capital where the mission is based. If we increase this participation with a few, not a great military force, it is obvious that the country's national contribution to this operation also results in political benefits, as it further strengthens our strategic relationship with France. I have said that the possible participation of members of the Armed Forces in Mali is not the result of the Greek defensive agreement that we have discussed here in the House, but results from the wider alliance relationship with France. We want the French to be with us. I think it is reasonable in an area where the European Union' s geopolitical interests are affected, with strong interest in France, to be close to France as well as to the extent that we can. In closing my prototype, I would like to make it known that the disposal of personnel from the Armed Forces to the undertakings themselves will give them significant operational experience and prestige. And when countries such as Sweden, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Georgia and many others who have expressed themselves, such as Greece, are interested in participating in this multinational mission, I do not see why our country is claiming to have strong, ready and worthy Armed Forces not to intensify its defensive print, helping friends and allies in areas that could potentially affect our own geopolitical interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u14	Minister, the evidence we have presented many times confirms that Greece is not a pillar of security and stability, but is attempting to fulfil the role of the capitalist of American imperialism and has been transformed with the policy of all governments in war and interventions against other peoples. And that is what the missions of Greek Armed Forces are serving abroad. As far as the dispatch of Greek soldiers to the Sahel is concerned, we have described it - and we will insist - a crime by premeditation. We're talking about a slaughterhouse. The French army has dozens dead for the interests of French monopolies, for the interests of 'TOTAL', 'VALOR', 'AREVA' and others in competition with China, Russia and Turkey. It is unacceptable that the claims recorded, that regardless of the risks and even human losses, war experience will be gained. We consider it extremely dangerous and unacceptable. The excuses that other states are poor and your decision is not legitimate because the Belgians went, the Estonians and the others you recorded went. There are great interests which are contrary to the interests of our people and the JRC is facing this as a decisive criterion. Patriot missiles in Saudi Arabia - we repeat it - have no work outside the borders. The day before yesterday, Saudi Arabia bombed the Yemeni region, where battles are taking place. Patriot missiles are integrated into a more general aggressive US planning that turns against Iran. That's proven. The agreements you signed with France and the United States serve aggressive planning in the wider region, joining competition with Russia and China. They have nothing to do with the country's defense. And we say, do not delight in the statements made by the US Secretary of State. Pompelo said the same thing in 2019 and the serious crisis in Greek-Turkish relations came in 2020. The American-Nordic side flatters you and at the same time describes Turkey as a valuable ally. He wants it strong and is haggling to distract it from Russian influence. And in this bazaar, there are sovereign rights in the country. I would remind you that after the 1990 Greek American agreement the Casus belli was expressed on the Turkish side, the Imia crisis. In recent years, border disputes, the dominance of the islands have become more pronounced. Cyprus is a member of the European Union, has naval bases, British and others, and the occupation continues for forty-seven years on the island. And Cyprus is being divided. The Souda Base plays a key role in the Natonic Wars. Alexandroupolis is leading in Russia's curiosity. We are telling you that the deeper the involvement in the planning of the Americans, NATO and the European Union, the more the problems in Greek-Turkish relations will become, because they are fuelled by the more general imperialist competition and the position which the Greek bourgeoisie holds and claims. The threats will increase and the ground will be turned on for painful compromises - which is a big chapter - for the consideration of energy resources in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. The people with their struggles demand the cancellation of the imperialist agreements, the closure of the US bases, the non-shipping of Greek Armed Forces in the Sahel of Africa, returning the Patriot gunfight from Saudi Arabia, front against every imperialist participation of our country. The struggle will continue until the end, until our people are housewives in their place, outside every imperialist alliance, with mutually advantageous relations with other peoples, because that is precisely why they impose the interests of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u16	It is a given that your approach to our own shows the ideological political chaos in terms of geopolitical analysis that separates us. I respect that. You will allow me, however, only two, three comments, since you have raised too many issues: Firstly, there is no question of returning the Patriot gunfight from Saudi Arabia, because it has simply not gone yet. He hasn't gone yet. At the moment, personnel are being transferred, some evidence has been transferred...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u17	You've had an event.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u18	He's probably going, but he's still not. Therefore, it does not participate - as has been stated in our intention not to involve this pluralism - in aggressive actions or in the involvement of Saudi Arabia with neighbouring countries such as Yemen. It will develop in a very specific security framework or, if you want, a defensive umbrella in Saudi energy infrastructure, and that will be all. From there on, I did not talk about the Greek-American mutual agreement on defence cooperation. Let me make a comment. I will say what I have said recently when this agreement was renewed after the signing of the two Foreign Ministers in Washington. This agreement confirms the commitment and decision of the two countries to deepen and deepen their strategic defence partnership, as well as their cooperation to strengthen their Armed Forces and the contribution of the two countries, our contribution to the security and stability of the wider region. You analyze it differently. We believe that Greece can only benefit from this agreement. Because, in essence, military infrastructure is being developed in both countries, the Armed Forces of both countries are coming closer, they learn from each other, they are getting involved, they acquire a common interoperable, operational culture, and that has its own value. The new agreement reflects the common strong will of the two governments to safeguard and protect the security, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of their countries against any threat. And the renewal of this defensive agreement still strengthens our conviction that the United States of America is increasingly starting to see Greece as the main, most reliable strategic partner in the field of defence cooperation in the region, with what this entails in favour of our national rights. From there on, the defensive agreement with France has recently been adopted by the House with a large majority. It reflects positively on public opinion. It is a multi-level agreement that benefits the country at national level. Clearly, it actively strengthens the armed forces and, moreover, expresses the will of both sides to join each other by military means if it is found jointly that an armed attack is being carried out on their territory. In fact, it is about upgrading, moving forward a timely strong ally relationship. And because we stand with our allies as we want them to stand next to us, that is why we are dealing with Mali in this approach. Finally - and I close - let me say that the fact that we are permanently hiding in our crab in a specific isolation regime, that we are trapped in some of the ideas of the ultimate or recent past, especially at a time when the geostrategic environment of the south-eastern Mediterranean is changing rapidly with great potential security challenges, I think that it is not at present beneficial in view of these challenges that the country's sovereign rights and geostrategic rights. I think that if we leave this mentality, if we step up our defensive print, given that we have the Armed Forces to support this, we can only improve our country's position in the international community. But we have chosen a camp - there is no doubt about that - as the countries next to which we are developing in the context of these alliances. And I think it is obvious that from all this defensive and geostrategic situation, the country is fighting to benefit and not lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too, Minister. The second question under number 123/1-11-2021 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will not be discussed, on the subject: "Restoration of the damage caused by "Janos" in Karditsa and unpunished protection of the area", due to a blockade by the MP. And now we go to the first with number 120/29-10-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "The problem of fire protection in the Sheikh – you are raised by confrontations of unauthorized and responsible". Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question and I would ask you to keep your time as long as you can. The question will be answered by the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection Christos Stylianides. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. We should welcome and wish the Minister a success. I think we share common concerns as far as the safety of the environment and of the citizens is concerned. And we would obviously like the greatest possible success, because this is about our entire society and it is not part of the party. But we cannot introduce, Minister, our disagreement on the division in the climate crisis policy that has taken place with the establishment of the ministry. It is not possible to adapt to the climate crisis by a ministry, to mitigation from another and possibly also to divide policies into other ministries, when in the European Union in the Council of Ministers these climate issues have a single management. I am not talking about civil protection. I am referring to climate issues. We will probably have to come back to this matter several times. That's why I put it aside. Unfortunately, and the climate seems to be a victim of the Mitsotakis government's communication strategy. After the tragic ecological disaster of summer he chose a firework, the creation of a ministry that unfortunately remains a "empty shirt" and we still haven't found any sense and you haven't found any sense about which Ministries will give you staff and when the programs, staff and resources will be given to you. And we have a lot of pilots to ask you where the SYRIZA government started and are now delaying. But we do not want forests to be the victims of this communication, clipboard - if you like - planning the government. Because that's exactly what happened in Shaich Sue, and that's the question I'm going to ask you. Unfortunately, what is being done in the Perimeter Forest of Thessaloniki is a rather - much more - of what Thessaloniki is dealing with by this government: stop the metro, destroy the ancients in Venizelos, with no strains of intensive care units, pierced out of the ICU, but in your Sheikh Flying seventy acres, to become the regional road, while almost two years left the Sheik Sou to become a symposium. We spotted it too early. In fact, I see that we have asked five questions about the prevention of fires frozen by the Mitsotakis Government, two updates for the anti-nuclear period and four specifically for the Sheikh Sue. The last one we submitted on 30 June was not answered and now it's your turn. You weren't the recipient, then. But the continuity of administration exists. For while Shahih was affected by the bark insect and while there was a preparation that we delivered as SYRIZA government, it was unfortunately left as funding and an example - if you like - and proof that he was abandoned by the government in 2021, the Thessaloniki Forest only received 74 000 euros to cover this deficit. Finally, Madam President, after protests by SYRIZA, social actors, press releases come to Thessaloniki and announces that, although unauthorized and the forest only received 74 grand, a million euros were found to clean up the unauthorised General Secretariat for Civil Protection, Sheikh Sou. Questions are important, however. On that visit the Civil Protection Policy did not invite either the forestry services or the decentralised or the municipalities with competence and resources. A project was decided, for which the services were not informed, and, indeed, with serious issues of transparency regarding its contract. Legislation, tyres as a Ministry - I am not talking about you personally - is likely to serve either the personal promotion of certain executives or the non-transparent management of resources. And the problem of civil protection is now being combined with opaqueness, Madam President. The questions, therefore, first of all, to close the first place are: Since the Civil Protection and the Region of Central Macedonia seem to have had their own plans, with what legislation was the study and implementation of the work by the Secretariat-General? Why has the General Secretariat for Civil Protection violated forest law? Why have they not been informed of the forest services they had studied for the same area, the same pieces? Are these operations included in a comprehensive fire protection plan for Shahih Su? Did the General Secretariat of Civil Protection have this in mind, or did he make a piece and left? And this model of competent disappointment will continue to operate with your own political leadership? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for me today is a very special moment. I am addressing the Greek Parliament for the first time by this official Step as Minister after the Prime Minister's honour to assign me the specific portfolio of the newly established Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. And I really feel touched. Thank you very much. I therefore considered it appropriate in this first presence to abuse very little time from the time that the Bureau will give me, in order to table two fundamental principles, starting points in terms of the time-long relations between the governments - Parliament and my view, an appreciation of the relationship between a minister and Parliament. My respect for Parliament and its institutional function seems to me to be self-evident. There's no need for any explanation. But as an old parliamentarian - and you will allow me to refer to you with the word 'colle d'état' - with pre-service to the Parliament of Cyprus and the European Parliament and having lived through all these procedures as a mere member or chairman of committees, I was very emphatically confirmed that the fruitful dialogue, the understanding is what serves the national and public interest above all, and above all serves the needs of the Greek citizens, the citizens in general. With these considerations, therefore, as a starting point, I am here, honouring the parliamentary control procedure as part of a wider democratic process, which can and may extend, where possible, with a view to creating - and should be - the appropriate islands of consensus. This word for me is very important especially in this ministry, which is a ministry that manages risk and manages risk prevention, preparation and resilience in the face of danger. That is why, for us the Ministry, for the political leadership, the concepts of dialogue and consensus are not and will not remain a letter void. At the same time and as important as our other basic principle, as is, of course, the European authorities and values - the President has lived in the European Parliament with her experience - is determined by full and complete transparency and accountability. For us, these two concepts will be conditions not without them. And one reason why I asked as Minister to start the national dialogue by calling on the Heads of Parliament's Party to send out representation, in order for special meetings to take place, is precisely to raise these issues of dialogue, accountability, transparency, with the aim of optimising agreement and consensus on very real and realistic bases, in order indeed to manage this critical aspect of the risk of natural disasters together, but above all to manage the prevention, preparation and preparedness before the disaster occurs. The Ministry was called the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. You have a disagreement, my dear colleague. We can even talk in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that we will have more time. I personally believe that his name was only accidental. We have also seen the interest of the international community of COP26 in Glasgow how international media and other countries have asked both the Prime Minister and me and the Minister for the Environment, Mr Skreka, to discuss this new experience and the association of the statutes of civil protection with the three well-known words of the international terminology of prevention - preparedness, preparation and durability. It is an issue that we will discuss, I will hear your views, but from my experience as a former Commissioner I believe that this civil protection and climate crisis connection is very innovative and does not create any problem in the Ministry of the Environment that manages other issues relating to climate change. I repeat, therefore, that this namemakership marks precisely the change in our way of action. It is a new concept which is expressed by this three-fold prevention - preparedness, preparation and durability, because one cannot stand, one cannot be understood without another. If we do not see preventive measures, unless we prepare ourselves, we cannot avoid the worst, we cannot save human lives. And because complementarity is such, it is the only possibility to increase our effectiveness. I shall end here and thank you, Madam President, for the time you have given me, for these foreplays. We are now going to particulars and to your question. For this question, as I have seen in history, full and comprehensive answers have already been given both by the political leadership of the then Ministry of Civil Protection and by the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. To begin with, I would like to stress that the specific institutional action of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection for the cleansing of the area forest of Thessaloniki, Shahik Sou, has been taken as a necessary and urgent action aimed at preventing a direct threat and threat. The cleansing of Sheikh Soo is part of the charge of the necessary cleansing of the perimeter forests, a process that was set as the government's main priority at the start of the anti-missile period with an explicit mandate from the Prime Minister to take action as soon as possible, with urgency wherever necessary. This process, of course, involves a lot of players with complementary and unfortunately, as I have now seen, often overlapping powers and at some point conflicting one another. You also lived as a minister and you know it. It is a well-known time-consuming sin of the Greek administrative system and it is a challenge for all of us to make a clearing of these responsibilities. The last summer, then, the country was found before extraordinary circumstances. The "Medea", which had precedented, had aggravated the whole situation, especially in southern Greece, and the situation smelled very dangerous. The C.O.D.'s headquarters raised the problem, pounding the alarm. He insisted on immediate action. I am referring to a document on 7-5-2021, in which it explicitly identified specific sensitive areas throughout the territory. One of them was the forest of Sheich Soo, and the urge to take increased measures was imperative. After that, I believe that the State Secretary for Civil Protection if he had not acted decisively and was initiated by a reasonable inertia may have been criminal. That is why, overcoming bureaucratic claws and unwillingness, his choice, without hesitation, was decisive action. In addition to the firefighting office's points, there was a clear request for assistance from the Regional Director of Central Macedonia on June 3, which requested immediate assistance. It was therefore planned to clean up these specific areas, which the Fire Service itself identified with precise studies and simulations as a high risk. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] To avoid abuse of time, I tell you that the operation was implemented under the new Law 4662/2020 and by decisions of the Civil Protection, all these areas were included in the special status of the situation of the special mobilisation of civil protection, Article 26. For Sheikh, by decision of 15 June, L.4662 imposed exceptional measures of a certain duration, when there was a threatened risk and, by way of derogation, Article 54 of other provisions. On the basis of the above, the decisions were taken. The on-site presence of the Deputy Minister of the Environment, Mr. Amyras, in the autopsy carried out in Shahik Sou on June 12th, his characteristic statements of absolute understanding and active assistance, as well as the statements by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Kalafatis, as well as the relevant regional director, Mr. Djikkostas, together with other statements by regional and local authorities, demonstrate that the design and implementation should be done and carried out at exemplary times and have produced practical results. The disasters that took place did not include Shahik Su, although threatened with a fire that broke out on September 13, which was quickly controlled and burned down a few acres. I believe that a great contribution to this happy outcome can also be attributed to the work done with cleaning and which certainly did the work of our heroic fire extinguishers easier. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I want to stop here, Madam President, because I have exceeded my time. I'm sorry, but it was the first time, and I had to say some opinions and positions, so that we could have better communication and cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. It is understandable, Minister, and I have told you that from the outset we will find many opportunities. Unfortunately, we cannot break my time, and that is why I am very brief. I have to say about the first part you have mentioned that there is a serious issue, a concern, about prevention and forestry policy. We don't have time to talk about it today. I am also very surprised at the discussions you have made at the COP, because it is indeed a great experience in policy without a plan and strategy to build a ministry without knowing why you are building it. They are indeed issues that will be wondered about how they will proceed to Greece. However, it is a different adaptation to the climate crisis and civil protection. It is another coordination and a single principle that we have asked for, but we will all find a way and a time to discuss. But what I am surprised at, Madam President, is that the Minister invoked the intervention in Sheikh Soo, the law which, after his vote by New Democracy, was suspended, but not the declaration of a civil protection mobilisation regime. This is very interesting, Minister! Wherever we want, we inhibit him, where we want to use him. But in the area of Sheikh Sou, the problem that was created is why the Mitsotakis Government did not implement the prevention policies, which had a ministerial decision with my own signature for funding, staff and management projects. It does not, therefore, implement the prevention projects and comes with the call for the risk that the government itself creates to say that 'I take my responsibility and do not finance the forestry service already studied'. Does that sound European to you? Does it make sense to you? So I create the problem, and even though I create it as a government, I do not fund the service that was done in the study, but I bring an irresponsible service, which the State Secretary says is unresponsible, to do a project in Shahik Sue. Finally, we had three projects that were evolving at the same time, a small forest service at a cost per acre of EUR 75, a project by IPTO with a forest service study, but also a project by the civil protection of EUR 1.5 million at a cost per acre of EUR 500, Minister. So we have a violation of rules of forest law, the creation of a problem by the government that comes to resolve by violating rules by invoking a law that is suspended and a serious problem of transparency and cost. We have not only the fact that we are making tyre legislation as to how it suits us, but we also have a large issue of transparency and non-legal management of public resources, which you must manage now, Minister. You were not responsible, but, Minister, the main question that arises in Thessaloniki is: What disciplinary proceedings will be exercised? What legality check will take place? How will you now charge responsibilities towards a service that seems to have been non-transparently managed against the public interest by violating jurisdictional legislation? Because I have to tell you, Minister, and one more thing. Did you look at when the declaration was made in the situation of special mobilisation of civil protection? Do you know that this has been done after the study, after the tender procedure has been carried out and indeed took place one day after or the same day as the contract? How's that? Does it seem to you that it is legal and European to declare the region in a state of mobilisation in order to legitimise direct awards with exorbitant amounts? Because that's what you have to manage now. You need to look at the timetable for these steps, see the overweight cost, see why the area was not under special mobilisation, and see why the rules were violated, and not even in the field of forestry services, nor even where the interventions were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u25	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u26	Of course, Mr Minister, there is another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u27	Mr Colleague, you have to close down, please, because in your prophecies too much time was.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u28	I shall conclude, Madam President. There are two publications, one of 'DOCUMENTO' and one of 'KATHMERINI', which highlight the issue of costs. There is a post in the 'DOCUMENTO' which highlights the earlier of the decision in a special mobilization. Of course, there is another issue which I raise, Madam President, because it is central. Why did the contract, Minister, never emerge in public? Why isn't it in KYMIDIS, which is the national issue of contracts? Why is this contract secret? These are serious questions. Because the danger has not been allowed and we have - in the next question - proof of this. Do not say, then, that the risk was prevented by the interventions from 'Dryades'. The opposite was done in many regions of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u30	The question is: What are you going to do now when the opacity, inconsistencies, breach of rules and non-legal management of public resources is revealed, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat the specific times that you know and which you are constantly stumbled on. I'm not only talking about you, Mr. Famel, but generally. The protology is two minutes and it usually becomes five. Secondary is three and usually seven as long as it goes. That is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Isn't that right? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u32	Mr Colleague, it is clear that we have a difference of understanding on issues of climate change, climate crisis and civil protection, i.e. a repressive part and prevention, preparedness and preparation. We will discuss them in due course in a more appropriate climate. As far as Shahih Sue is concerned, I return and insist that the procedures as taken up by his predecessor were in the letter and in the spirit of the law. It was a work complex with many peculiarities, since along with the removal of trimming remains, building materials and bazaar had to be removed, while the forest had been hired by a specific insect bark. And it is a pity - and I insist - that the cleansing took place, as was shown by the fire that occurred and possibly saved a great disaster. I believe that the evidence that is available here, which I shall submit, proves the truth. I'll leave them here at the House Secretariat. [[At this point Mr Christos Stylianides presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] We don't have to get into a accounting process and debate. These are three documents that have personally convinced me that at that time, in the specific circumstances, which we all experienced last summer - the extraordinary circumstances - we had to act decisively and act in the sense and spirit and the letter of the law. With regard to a number of objections, such as the fact that there was no prevention and preparedness, I would say that precisely if there were some inertia in terms of prevention and preparedness throughout the territory, since we were all living a particular situation, a pandemic, the establishment of the new ministry is seeking to address these timeless inertia that start with timeless sins of the system with bureaucratic strangles. This means that what you are saying is the need for a new ministry that will focus on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too, Minister. Next, the third, with number 121/29-10-2021, is a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon, a crime against the environment and biodiversity has been committed", in which the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection will also answer Mr. Stylianides. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are coming back, Minister, to a question that has a relevant subject, quite similar to the previous one, where it was also - and at least here I would like to move on a little bit - a systematic violation of the rules of legality, but also a major ecological disaster with the responsibility of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection in the Schinia Park, in the unique park of Koukounaria, which is unique in its value. There are three parks in our country protected, in other words, within the nucleus of the NATURA 2000 network. This question, Madam President, was raised on 5-7, 2-9 and 23-9. It has not responded from the previous one, if I am not mistaken, political leadership, because then the problem has started and there is an intervention by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection in a protected area, causing irreparable damage to natural capital, which has been formulated by the management body of the protected area and by forest services and eleven environmental organisations, and the issue has also been to the Commission and the Counsel, if I am not mistaken, and the National Transparency Authority is serious about too many services. What happened? On 14 June, and I think, until the end of July, contractors from the General Secretariat of Civil Protection have invaded the area of the park - that is, Koukounaria - in order to carry out the work of the full forestry and phytosanitary industries. Unfortunately, such work is not done by leveling and excavating. In any case, however, that was the term. The crew started working internally. But there was shaved of polar vegetation, decoying young people pine cones, destroying the existing natural regeneration, and as I said before, using machines, socks, truck, shrimp, shrimp, boat truck. The work was frozen on a temporary basis, because the same day intervention was made and I personally had a telephone call with the Ministry, because there was a strong protest from the institution of the protected area. Police were called, complaints were made to environmental inspectors, but despite institutional interventions, the disaster continued with too many violations of forest and environmental legislation and not only in the park of Koukunaria, but also outside the National Park of Schinia - Marathon and other protected areas such as Lavrio. This intervention was made without the contracting workshops to deliver as they were due to the study, without the Forest Service being informed, without the operator being informed, and therefore eleven environmental organisations express their complete opposition to the plan and care for a single forest ecosystem. It is undeniable that fire protection and armour are a priority, Minister, and that is why there was a ministerial decision to prevent forest fires. However, I have told you that the Mitsotakis Government has not implemented this policy and has therefore retrospectively called for the prevention of fires and has intervened without competence, but also within a core of a protected area and at the expense of the authority's instructions, directives and decisions, and indeed a body, Madam President, who had already sent the work to be done in May. He had predicted, predicted, and informed the Civil Protection. It writes in its old shoes, then, the political protection, the opinion of the institution, intervenes at the expense of the Presidential Decree, which I have here, and says how the work should be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u35	Your questions, Mr Colleague, please, have you spoken for three minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u36	So it violates legislation, is it rarely destroys protected ecosystems and the question is why the Civil Protection is violating the rules of the environment and forest law and is destroying the core of sensitive areas when there is a plan that is in a completely different direction? I shall continue in my dentistry, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u38	Mr Colleague, I will not provoke a barren controversy because I do not believe in a confrontation in this area that I consider to be the most critical at the moment, perhaps worldwide, and is called 'climate crisis and civil protection - risk management'. I will simply say that this question with small variations is about the same subject, it is related to the very same institutional framework as the previous one. So I will not repeat myself so that I do not abuse parliamentary time. The arguments and considerations of the General Secretariat in this case are the same. I'm just going to say some specific things. In the context of this 'Dryades' operation to deal with the emergency, in particular the anti-nuclear armour of the rope area, they acted preventively and decisively and proceeded with the cleansing of the area, since the area had been integrated into the areas of increased civil protection mobilisation under Article 26 of Law 4662 again. And in this case, the action was followed by a documented recommendation from the Firefighting Headquarters. As you have rightly said, this area is an area of particular natural beauty and there is a special provision of Article 4 of the Presidential Decree on the protection of the rope, which also expressly provides that these prohibitions are excluded from interventions imposed on grounds of higher urgency and exceptional circumstances to avoid foreseeable risks, which means that they have been initiated on the basis of the letter and spirit of the law. No recommendation was therefore ignored, and in fact, throughout the whole procedure all the co-operating bodies were involved and informed, and this is the result of the overall correspondence and the relevant decisions of the management body, which had been sent on time for the approval of the actions. I would point out that the management body under number 192/17-5-2021 approved the request for clean-up operations with only certain variations, i.e. fully approved the feasibility of the operations. The rest were dictated by the urgency and the special provision made by the Presidential Decree. The definitions followed the technical report of the Directorate-General for Technical Works and the Environment of the Secretariat-General. As I said before, this initiative and moves have been fully informed by the co-responsible bodies. I would like to point out in particular that on 15 May 2021 the letter of the Secretary of State for the Environment, Mr Amyras, announced the intention to strengthen the work of Civil Protection in every appropriate way and to fully support the effort by the directly involved Municipality of Marathon. I think it's just in the same spirit. The aim was to avoid major fires and, like in the Shahih Sou, the actions were in the law and attempted properly, so that we do not yet have any further disasters due to the problems that all of us are experiencing in the summers of the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u40	Minister, having referred to the provisions of the Law on emergency aid, I would like to say to you that on 16 June and 23 June, it appears that the Forests concerned were not informed, even though they had to be informed about the forthcoming initiatives. So is the body from which we have a document that has not been up-to-date and expresses its strong protest to the Commission. Ask the Commission - you are experienced by them - and you will find that there is a complaint there too. Secondly, as far as the President-in-Office of the Council is concerned, he says that the anti-nuclear organization of the site is concerned, but all projects and interventions must have the approval of the Forest Directorate. So you are also violating the presidential order of protection by invoking a law that is suspended by your Government. Ultimately, the responsible body has obviously submitted an anti-nuclear protection plan. It is not implemented by your Government or financed by the Forestry and Mr Chardalias comes to implement his own law in this area at the expense of all the rules and with a reaction from all environmental organisations. So he says: "Because the Mitsotakis Government does not apply the prevention of forest fires, I come with a new doctrine, I take the responsibility of forestry services, I write in my old shoes the management body of the area and I go in and I destroy it." Even international laboratories from other countries that were on the spot at the time the loaders raided, have gone. We have videos in public from these researchers, who are from a German university, if I'm not mistaken. Finally, it comes from what I can see - and the Commission itself, in a document of 20 July 2021, expresses serious concern, asks what measures are to address the damage and reminds the Mitsotakis Government that we already have a condemnation of the habitat directive if I am not mistaken at the end of 2020. And the Citizens' Counsel asks explanations and the Greek Transparency Authority investigates the matter. Why? Because the results of the 'Dryades', unfortunately, Minister, were seen tragically this summer. Do you remember where the presentations for the 'Dryades' took place? Do you remember it happened in the Barumbas, Tatoi and the Hippocratic State? Do you remember, however, where the great fire arrived after a resurgence in front of the prior political leadership of the Ministry? But the Greek people remember all this. Unfortunately, we cannot talk today about the success of the 'Dryades', when all the Northeast Attica was at stake from refreshment to areas that had passed before the workshops Mr. Chardalias had been carrying out. You cannot tell this in Parliament. On the contrary, you must say that there has been a mistake in these interventions, beyond the administrative error and beyond the institutional and environmental ones. We need to see what happened and see how the money was handled, Minister. My question is simple. You're going to open the contracts? These contracts are secret. So far they haven't been filed in the House. If it's not in the file, then you'll force us to go with a special question to the Bureau or to the prosecutor, Minister. I do not know why the contracts are secret. Eighteen areas in Attica were cleaned up, but with opaque contracts and a multiple budget from the forests' studies. In fact, I have to tell you because I was in Kandridri the people in your area are waiting for you, because they told us that the cameras have just closed down here in the Hippocratic State, in Kadandriti, in Aphednes, in Courca, they are all gone. Antimilitary works did not proceed. The authoritarianism we've been through is still intense in the area. Police officers had a lot of firefighters. That's what people and the president of the community told me on Wednesday night. There is a serious issue and now with the delay of anti-military protection. But, Minister, I heard complaints that even pumps were closed at night of fire and the time they arrived in the Hippocratic State. We can't forget that. Is this the success of the 'Dryades' that you want us to assess today? If you don't realize the mistake that has been made, we won't fix it. We want to fix it, too. That is why we are here, so that there is civil protection and not that there is a communication strategy for civil protection. However, as far as the questions I have tabled are concerned, I insist. Tell me what legislation all this was based on. Give us the contracts, see how the awards were made, with which competitions. Also, please tell me 'Dryades' and intervention in the NATURA regions will continue over the next few years? I have heard that this programme will be five years. We will also be in danger in the next few years of condemning the European Union because of the actions of Civil Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u42	Mr Colleague, I will insist on the consensual approach, because I do not believe in a barren controversy. You may have other evidence, you may have another briefing, but I have different briefings. You realise that here we will go to parallel monologues and we will not find a common place, which is what the place needs. Risk management, fires, floods need national understanding and national consensus. I personally have my experiences worldwide tell you that it is pointless to build a policy on burnt land or on houses that have flooded. It is my basic view and I will insist on it regardless of whether you are insisting on a harder confrontation. Seeing all the correspondence and all the texts, I insist that the Civil Protection was initiated in the letter and in the spirit of the law. However, it had to act specifically on the ropes and despite the reactions of groups that did not want to engage and simply sought, if necessary, the usual inertia, proceeded with these appropriate actions and cleansing became a reality. The usual preventive actions concerned only a transit ban for a few hours a day. The people who have pointed this out to me, I know, are familiar with the region and are in the Fire Service, which is in fact responsible. I cannot ignore the relevant part of the state in such cases. I believe that they have acted decisively, created conditions of greater security and drastically reduced the threatened risks in a summer that was actually created in the memory of the Greek people. I repeat that we will continue to do so. I'm telling you that the evidence submitted, I believe, is convincing. They will convince you that there was nothing outside the law or outside the texts of laws and regulations and, if you insist, we are here to discuss it again. I'm fine with it. I repeat that, for me, accountability in Parliament is a basic principle of the democratic process. But the evidence is sufficient and they can convince you. Now if someone with a completely legalistic approach tries to ignore the great picture, because here we are talking about natural disasters that we have to deal with, then it is another approach that I do not agree with. I have to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the debate of the sixth under No 129/1-11-2021 topical question from the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Tourism, on "Strict problems of housing and operation of the public tourist professions of Heraklion Crete". The State Secretary for Tourism will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you are very well aware that the start of the life of the public tourist professions IKK, one of the largest public IKKs in the country, is on the air. On the occasion of the recent earthquake in Heraklion, the building of the former "XENIA", where it was housed, was characterized as yellow, i.e. inappropriate. I say 'on the occasion of the earthquake' because the problem of safe housing existed before the earthquake as a result of a timeless indifference of governments to the maintenance of these building infrastructures and the complete depreciation of the needs of the school. But the homeless problem has an impact on students' cultural rights, who are, for another year, forced to attend their courses online. There are students who will complete their studies without having entered the workshops. And last year the courses were conducted by tele-education, and so they did not practice basic skills. However, this is not an upgrade of studies, it is not an upgrade of schools. There is, of course, also a problem of sub-financing, which has led to a lack of staff, consumables and uncertainty about the uninterrupted functioning of the public IEC, as well as those parts of the post-training that must be launched soon. In addition, of course, it is also the abandonment of the "XENIA - HELIOS" building, as it was called, which increases the concern of privatising the facilities. The many and accumulated problems faced by students and public IEC workers show the complete abandonment of the state. And that is undeniable, and the opposite cannot be substantiated at all. The government, therefore, does not give solutions, on the contrary, completely depreciates the needs of the school, the students, creating conditions of exclusion from the educational process in too many ways. I will be given the opportunity to say second. However, these were also raised in the timely question we discussed five months ago in this Chamber in July 2021, calling for the necessary measures. So we ask you, Madam Secretary: firstly, what measures do you intend to take, the government, so that there is a temporary migration - I stress: temporary - with your responsibility - in a building that is operational and secure for the time necessary until the school's building is restored so that lifelong courses can be started immediately and that all students can practice? Secondly, what are you going to do to make repair and maintenance projects, earthquake shielding the school's buildings, with state funding, in line with the requirements of a modern training centre and the needs of free school students - because this issue also arises - without any consideration of the privatisation of the building. Finally, what will you do in order to maintain the public nature of the school and its function on the sole responsibility of the State, with the recruitment of all the necessary educational, administrative and other staff, ensure free, with full state funding, all that is necessary for the education of students - equipment, consumables - and, of course, for the retraining of the school by your own responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u45	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Synthyriakis, we are at an opportunity today, but also in a challenge. It is a challenge, first of all, for IKK Heraklion and for the recent unfortunate seismic activity, with which, anyway, at our meeting here, I wish good strength to all residents, both in Arkalochori and in the other regions. The government has tried and will try to stand next to every city, every resident and every student and student. I think he's shown it. The ideal way, obviously - we know, Mr Syntagakis - is not temporary solutions and containers. But it's the solution so that our children can come back into a process. For the IKK Heraklion, things are even more demanding. As you said, it was indeed a multi-annual procedure, a difficult situation in the building and indeed this earthquake has come to an end. However, we do not deviate from a fundamental objective which I have come today to repeat, to highlight and to document. Then, of course, I leave to the discretion of both those who are present and those who are watching us from a distance to evaluate it. The main objective, therefore, of the Ministry of Tourism, is to design the reform actions and actions and to continue and modernise the Ministry's tourist schools of competence. We wish and we are already doing and will continue to do the actions for this, to provide high-quality education and training in a complex where tourism, hospitality gave their credentials this year, gaining a great bet of high-quality, preference for our country, which became a champion in the European space by the people who chose it and also the Greeks who traveled to Greece. We know very well that in order to preserve this part, which makes us all happy, the heart is one: human resources, so that a person who lives in the area can find a job, a well paid job and tourism can provide that. So we strengthen the competitiveness of Greek businesses, the expansion and support of the Greek economy, but more employment and the possibility of finding a well paid job for a child anywhere and being and choosing a school. Our educational units perform this dual operation of a high level through challenges - it is true - education and training, but also what I said before, a boost to the local economy, by upgrading the services offered in the tourism sector with new managers. I would remind those who are following us, who are not obliged to have observed what has happened these years, Madam President, that these were the old tourist schools, which after 2014 became IEK. In the second part I will say what we have done, so that we can improve the quality of education, which I have also been competent in recent months. But now we need to talk about the urgency, to talk about what we have in front of us, to talk about what is coming very soon, the start of the IEKs. I mention it's a web function. Indeed, for the intervening period we have also given the school's address so that children do not lose an hour of education and training, i.e. courses can be conducted properly, online, so that we can start the process. This year, I would remind you that ninety-seven students will be introduced to the first year. We already have eighty-four students in the second year in three specialties. These are: Technician of tourist units and businesses, cooking technician - chef and pastry baker. In fact, it is expected to work - you mentioned it before - four further training departments and I have given a personal commitment so that this year we can start earlier than the date we started last year, because it was close to the beginning of the season and there was a overlap. We have already committed ourselves to the Association of Workers in Foodism, but also to hoteliers being in this part even more consistent this year, to start early our students, the unemployed and the workers of the programmes. Because you mentioned the issue of practical training, you should know - certainly you know it - that this summer's practice was completed 30 September with the participation of the country's tourist businesses. I would like to mention what the honourable Member also says, namely, that we are bringing quickly within the next two weeks with the new draft special legislation, which will enable two parts, firstly, to correct and deal with building problems which are faced not only with this building, Mr Syntagakis, but also with other buildings in which educational units of the Ministry of Tourism are housed, but also with an additional regulation which establishes the possibility of the Ministry of Restoration to conclude exceptional property rental contracts, so that the Ministry can respond directly to the exceptional housing conditions of the educational units that have been caused mainly in Heraklion. This is a situation that has arisen. We'll deal with her. With these two arrangements in the medium term, the immediate one, so that the administrative units, which are currently hosted at the PYT Heraklion, can go to a new lease and, of course, the children can live, our students can enjoy this full range of possibilities that they can give to the public IKK that remains in public and that is what we want to take care of.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u48	Minister, first of all in relation to what you said about the reform actions of modernism, the high quality of education and training in the context of the support of the Greek tourism economy. These are a thousand words which are far from being discussed and the questions raised. This is where the operation is at stake, the existence of a public IEK. It's over. It's a simple question. This building has been damaged for too many years. No government was interested. Five months ago we discussed this here. We have made a promise from you that the proceedings will proceed immediately. It's been five months. Nothing happened. The earthquake's coming on September 27th. It is being forced and the service responsible for the disasters comes and makes the check. If the earthquake hadn't happened, he wouldn't have come to do control. He came because the earthquake happened. You know what? You make the other person skeptical, because he comes after the earthquake, and it had to have taken precedence over this control for years. You're not doing anything at all. Courses start Monday with teleworking. You were coming today - and that is why I say that if today's topical question was not asked, for example, I do not know when you were going to announce it - and you say that in two weeks' time there will be legislation establishing the exceptional property rental contract. Now? Why now? Because now and not a month ago. I won't tell you five months ago, I won't tell you years ago. Why now? At the time of the launch of tele­vision. Do you know why? Why are you completely indifferent, all the governments - and you are now taking the ball because you are the Minister - to find the new building for the maintenance of the existing building. Okay, I'm telling you they're going to another building. Is the building going to be built in Kokkini Hani in the Hersonissos? Give us a timeline specific. When do you intend to proceed with the restoration of the building in the Hersonissos, so that in a short time the children and teachers will go back again? You need to give us a schedule for this. You need to tell us what financing procedures are for the construction of the IKK building in the area of Kokkini Hani. For these questions, however, you are not answering. You're not answering. I don't know if you've gone to see it. If you go and see the image of the building, you'll fall off the clouds. You're gonna say it's possible and people came in and take lessons, teachers working. Did you see the incident in Pylea yesterday? The situation in the IEK in the Hersonissos region is threefold. So say that the time of the earthquake was inside and they were classing. You wouldn't be washed by Niagaras either. I'm really talking to you. In other words, there is such anger from the world, such anger. And in any case, you reach a dead end. And can I tell you something? It suits you to distance learning and to telematics. Why? Because you are hiding deadlocks in your policy, underfunding, your great and time-consuming deficiencies. Very specific things. Don't move your head. Books. There are no books to keep children notes and buy pay notes. Infrastructurals are bad. The logistics infrastructure in consumables is inadequate, which is essential for every specialty. That is to say, basic things that are not there and are called upon by the students to buy or get out of the business of the workers or the administration to meet the essential needs of the operation of the IEK. There's incomplete maintenance of the facilities there. All of this as a result of sub-financing for a large IEK, with two hundred students, apart from those for post-training, and then you tell me about practical training and apprenticeship. You know, behind very nice words there is hard and well-paid work, without any substantial benefit to knowledge and experience on the subject of studies. You know what they're doing? That's what the students' experience says. We don't. They say these kids are turning into kids for all the jobs. That's the reality. The practice is translated into an endless knive of kniveling, cleaning potatoes, while for others the whole season passes into the lacquer, the buckle, cleansing. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u49	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u50	Accommodation for children who may come - and I conclude, Madam President - from Rhodes, may come from the other regions of Crete and pay to rent a home and go to an IEK with teleworking. Uh, you can't really upgrade that way. So we tell you to tell us with specific answers, with timetables, when they will go to the new building and when you will build the old so that they will be soon transferred there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u51	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Symphony, first of all, I can't accept you telling me I'm swinging my head. I was talking to my partner. I never did it to you. And you know very well from my previous term of office in the Ministry of Education, but now also from the Ministry of Tourism that I always behave - I think - with absolute respect for Parliament and for the procedures. Secondly, it is good to always speak with the language of pragmatism. And I'll come over here and tell the truth. Truths are about realism. And by the way, you should know that our committee did not go to control the building after the earthquake. He went before the earthquake. In particular, because they are two different checks of the building. So that was prioritised. To tell things as they are and not just to create impressions. I don't have the engineering knowledge to give you a programming for things we've already put together - and I'm really telling you - in a series at the Ministry. But I know that there is the intention of the Ministry - and it is already happening - through the NRP that we can also facilitate repairs with the special provision, which has not come because of your timely question now, Mr Syntagakis. Really. Legislative work you know. Is it possible to tell me that at the moment we are bringing the rules or because of the timely question? We bring them very well because we are aware of the urgency of what is happening at IKK Heraklion and we want to resolve it in the interim. You're talking to a teacher. Do you think an instructor would say that he prefers children to do distance education and training? I don't know this magical thing, which is happening by living or do I not want to go to my children and see them in person? Obviously yes, Mr. Covenant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u53	That's your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u54	But should I not give an interim solution to this issue at least, which I have the authority and the children not to lose an hour? That's what I'm going to do, Mr. Synchronism. Children will not lose a single hour of education and training, as they have not lost over the last two years. I should also like to clarify the issue of human resources, because you have also talked about staff. There are 12 permanent administrative assistant posts. Nine, four administrative officers and five assistant staff have been covered. In the planning of permanent appointments for the year 2022, an administrative budget position has been adopted by the Ministry of Interior, which will be covered by a procedure by the AACC. Within the framework of the second cycle of the Single Mobility Mobility System for 2021, a request has been made by the Ministry's responsible department for filling three posts for the process of transfer to the technical, administrative and libraries and by permanent training staff on all three organic posts is covered. And because courses are starting to say that the procedures for the recruitment of administrative and educational staff have already been completed. Their number, as determined at the relevant recommendation of the Director-General, has been implemented. So we can continue, call and start the course process. However, since we are not speaking in vacant terms and because it has actually been several months, I have to present to the House today what I have done so that the conditions of the curriculum can be improved within the IEKs. And I think that you should take this into account and not, if you like, we eliminate everything from those who have been attempted. We have attempted and managed to draw up and modernise after 11 years the KHS for the practical training of our students, which means that we have also added new businesses to students from IEK and ASEAN, and for the first time the possibility of a practical operation within the countries of the European Union if one of our students so wishes. We have recorded with our services the detailed schedules of recruitment of administrative and educational staff for better planning from now on. We are approaching the Ministry of Digital Governance a digital management program for applications, molecules and objections to the recruitment of alternates. We tabled the amendment in the summer of 2021 and imposed a legislative extension on our IPOs for three months, those who were serving at the IEK, to meet our schools' urgent needs. We have drafted a ESRB proposal and a memorandum of cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance for Digital Records and Management Systems for Training and Teachers, Ischool, Moodle and eclass, as does the Ministry of Education. Something very important that you mentioned before is that the kids pay rent to go to IEKs. Since this year, our students have been entitled to the housing allowance and other IEK children, the rest of the students, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. After fourteen years we have also set up a cooperation group to finally modernise the IEK regulation and the necessary changes to the specialities of IEK tourism. And yes, we also support the Minister for the Capacity of Studies, Exploitation of Buildings, Educational, Hotel, former boarding houses, OTEKs, one of which is IEK Tourism. You may dismiss these efforts, at least in words, Mr Synthyakis, but I am absolutely certain that the students who have chosen for the first time this year in Heraklion will be understood through a collective effort that we will make with our director, with the administrative staff, with the instructors and with the local society and, of course, as a government and as a state, that we will assist them throughout the two-year stay in our schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too, Minister. The fifth will be discussed under number 130/1-11-2021 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance of MP Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "True delays and shortcomings in the contribution of Samos earthquakes". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, George Karayannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a few days ago, a year was completed by the lethal sad earthquake that hit Samos on October 30, 2020, and despite government announcements, as well as the adoption of individual ministerial decisions, the state in general has to help the populations affected by earthquakes, is dramatically less than the circumstances, the need for major malfunctions in the completion and coordination of the procedures envisaged. But it is also extremely delayed in implementing and implementing even these relief measures, which you have announced. The Memorandum of Understanding Committee for the Reconstruction of Samos after the earthquake, which was unanimously adopted by the North Aegean Regional Council by Resolution 63 of 29-9-21 and which, after labor and suffering, was handsomely served to the Prime Minister by my colleague Manolis Carla during his recent visit to the island, I think in detail the extremely problematic government response to the Samos earthquake. In particular, as regards the competence of your Ministry, serious weaknesses and delays in the grant of the rent of the eligible earthquakes are focused, the licenses for repair and demolition of buildings that have been declared demolished. In particular, as it is apparent from the figures of your Ministry itself through parliamentary control that payments of even a hundred and fifty one among the two hundred and thirty-eight applications which are entitled to a rental subsidy are extremely low, leaving virtually without support from hundreds of families, Mr. Secretary-General, seismics. In addition, only three repair permits have been issued until recently, a very low number that is directly related to the only sixty-six autopsies carried out by the IAEA over a total of eighty-six applications. I would remind you that according to the Ministry's data, there are a thousand eight hundred ninety-seven buildings in need of repair. Also, until recently, only seven certifications have been issued for the establishment of building aid beneficiaries and from the two hundred and thirty-eight buildings that have been identified as dangerously ready-made have already been demolished minimally or even no one. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, first of all you will allow me to disagree with you on your findings of huge delays and shortcomings in the contribution of the earthquakes of Samos. And I think that your finding is part of a sterile opposition position. I will, however, seize the opportunity of informing the Delegation about the actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to address the conditions created in Samos since the October 2020 earthquake. Mr Papoutsis, you know much better than anyone that from the very beginning the state has been there. There's a broad governmental step within an hour. But in about an hour and a half, we were there together with Mr. Hardalis at the time as the State Secretary for Civil Protection, with Mr. Livano from the Ministry of the Interior and with me to deal with and organize all the conditions. The Ministry, with its manifestation of the phenomenon, mobilised the entire mechanism of the Directorate-General for Natural Disaster Restoration, which the Ministry's leadership since 2019 has made sure to strengthen with a hundred and ninety a hierarchy of mainly qualified personnel, of which ten are engineers. I imagine that you realise that the subservation you are writing of the IAEA does not really respond, at least as far as our Government, the New Democracy Government, which has exhausted any possibility of strengthening the Directorate-General for the Rehabilitation of Natural Disasters. I would like to stress at this point that the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has even extended the contracts of hired in 2018, so that they do not disrupt the functioning of this sensitive and critical service. I understand from your question that you are telling us that we need more staff. We appreciate it. We appreciate the needs, make the decisions and judge them every time. However, after your question, you say that the number of rent subsidy beneficiaries appears low. Allow me to correct some of the figures and the number of applications submitted and the payment of the subsidy money. Two hundred and sixty-four applications have been submitted, of which two hundred and ten were considered legitimate. 82% of them have been paid, seventy - eight, that is, paid for exactly what it takes. Thirty-nine applications are currently pending, which are incomplete in cooperation with the service, so that the citizens directly receive what they are entitled to. By now EUR 134,761 has been paid and an additional payment is due in the next few days. As far as the affected buildings are concerned, I must point out that according to the legislation in force in your own government, the SYRIZA Government - and you should know that - for the reconstruction of buildings that are deemed demolished, the authority responsible for their authorisation is the city's building agency, and especially the issue of repair applications - and yet only - the IAEA is responsible. I should like to point out at this point that, as you write in your question, the entrusted DAC has carried out three thousand six hundred twenty-seconds of audits of buildings in a thousand nine hundred forty-four buildings in need of repair and four hundred 10 buildings that are demolished, of which the tertiary control resulted in the extradition of three hundred PEAECs. Any failures, you must recognise, Mr Papoutsis, that they are due to the applications made by the beneficiaries, and that is why we are there. That's why the service is there, on the island to deal with all these issues. Now, with regard to the provision of the existing legislation on the issue of repair permits, this is a provision that is in the past, but this is also a question for our Government and for the whole of the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure together with the Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, is working to change this legislation that you have implemented. We are currently implementing the same legislation, but we will very soon be ready to make another very big change, another reform to make it easier for citizens to see how they deal with it. We have also shown this through state aid. How the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is next to the citizens is seen in every natural disaster we face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u59	Me too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u60	Mr Secretary, first I think you have confused parliamentary control with opposition tactics. Here, as a member of the government, please answer the specific questions put by Members. These Members address these questions to you and these questions you must answer. So no opposition political and microparticipatory exploitation. You've done this before, we've lived it, we know it. And let me tell you that we're not all the same. It is obvious - to return to the question - that in addition to the other factors, these huge deficiencies and delays have serious references to the dramatic situation, as you have pointed out, to the commitment of the OLAF. There is a Ministry's inability to provide a practical solution to the problem of complex, many times, property regime, which is an issue which I think you should resolve with some legislative intervention, which we are here to discuss. I should like to say that this is the case not only with Samos, but also with other islands, for example the island of Chios, which was affected by this earthquake at another level. It also chooses not to give a subsidy decision on the demolition of dangerously prepared buildings, according to the standards of the one given in the case of the earthquake of Vrisa Lesvos in 2017, but also not to financially strengthen the municipalities of Samos - and I want you to answer for that, if you know - in order to go ahead with demolition of buildings. We would like you to reply to that, Mr Secretary-General, in addition to the general declarations we have heard sometimes. And you will also allow me, a little while away from your portfolio and since you have referred to your immediate response and your visit to Samos after a few hours, to remind the Prime Minister's assurance and announcement that the first choice and priority would be the restoration of the Carlovass Cathedral, if you remember, which remains in the same situation, of course. And as far as I'm concerned, a private person who has financed the study for his rehabilitation has been found.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u62	I will try to keep the time, Madam President. Mr Michaelides, we recognize that your intention is to inform the Samos citizens of all these issues, but we must also speak truths in this Chamber. We must recognise all these things. Do you know what the most important thing is? That the questions that are being asked at the moment concern people who have been affected by a natural disaster. In the first part of my first speech, I think I've answered a number of issues. The second is the answer to all the other questions you have raised. At the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, but also the rest of the political leadership, we are the ones who believe a criticism is welcome so that we can improve and see all the issues that exist. However, this criticism should be based on facts and facts that are in fact in response to it, in order to enable us to speed up our work and deal with any failures. But you must admit that in all cases of natural disasters over the last two years the Ministry of Infrastructure has been there, with speed, effectiveness, immediateity and consistency. He was there and his employees continue to serve the citizens as they should, as they should. The vague references, such as 'great delays', 'dramatic subsidization', 'the Ministry's failure to give a solution', do not correspond to reality. And let me tell you that they're not wrong with the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, they're wronging the state more widely. Our Ministry's action is evidenced by the figures I mentioned in my protology, the rent subsidy and the adequacy of staffing the IAEA. As far as the other issue you raised is concerned, however, the demolition of dangerous buildings, you know that those responsible, in accordance with the law on demolition of buildings that are characterised as dangerously prepared, are their owners and in cases of inertia are the municipalities. The decision made by the predecessor, Mr Spirtzi, about Vrisa, did not change this legislative regime for a single time, has merely provided money for the owners to demolition their property. In the end - you know, I imagine - it proved ineffective, and that is why the municipalities and regions were again called upon to demolition. Proof of what I'm telling you about the inefficiency of this model is that your own government, the SYRIZA government, did not apply it to any other natural disaster, nor to Kos, nor to Zakynthos, nor to Preveza. Also, especially for the Eye, which we had an extreme situation, demolitions were undertaken by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with special legislation. So the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Kostas Karamanlis financed, on the basis of this experience and through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Municipality of Samos, with about 9.2m euros, so that, among other things, they could demolish the properties for which the PAEECs have been issued. Of these - according to the figures we have - 3,134,000 have already been disbursed. I inform you that seventy-three buildings have been demolished in the Municipality of Western Samos and forty-one buildings have been demolished in the respective municipality of the eastern Samos. Now, with regard to your last question about the Ministry's inability to resolve the complex property regime and the problem that exists, I am really trying to understand what you are asking us. I imagine you are aware of the provision of Article 17 of the Constitution on property protection even when the properties are unknown owners or permanent residents abroad or many joint owners that exist issues among themselves. Let me close with this: our government as a whole is next to Samos, alongside the problems that exist. Mr Triantopoulos, who is responsible for natural disasters, thinks he was on your island a few days ago. And I think that new communications have been made on the issue of temples, which are evocating my competence and which is not my concern, but on the issue of extra funding, where - as I read - EUR 1.7 million to the municipalities there, in order to deal with issues relating to repairing the buildings - and let me tell you that you must mention this - and also on joining the platform arogi.gov.gr in the next period for providing first aid for housing assistance to the earthquake residents of Samos. These, Mr Michaelides, you need to recognize them. We are here, in any case, to answer your questions and to improve ourselves, but above all to know that the citizens and Samos, but also every region that has accepted a natural disaster, that we are close to them, that we are next to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too, Minister. It will now be discussed the first under number 113/29-10-2021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The assignment of OAS cleanliness passes to contractors and five hundred workers into unemployment". Mr. Kokalis' question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Colleague, you'll have two minutes for your question. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the work of cleaning up in public buildings, housed by OAED services, and many public services, until 2015, was entrusted to private contractors. This assignment, however, to private contractors created and displayed many pathogens. Firstly, the financial derailment. From the contractor's consideration, because the original provision of the law was not a ceiling, the budget had been derailed. Secondly, the violation of insurance and labour law. Indicative is the report of the 2009 Institute of Labour of the GSEE, published in 2011, which mentions working middle-ages for workers in these companies. In 2016, the government decided that these needs could be met by the workers under assessment and supervision, which would be recruited by the AACC and hired five hundred employees for twenty-four months and with an extension. It was natural that private individuals appealed to justice. The Court of Justice sent a question for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which was contrary to the objections of private contractors and to the Court of Justice, the Council of State, the maximum null and void. Its decision rejected the contractors’ objections and accepted the claim that, in fact, the recruitment of fixed-term workers, as the government did in 2016, the government at the time, was legitimate. You, however, came in 2021 and, after the court ruling, abolished this provision. I can catch up with your potential and first argument, 'for economic reasons'. I shall also say in the second sentence that it is not the only criterion, Minister, and that is why you ask: Who were the reasons for the public interest to abolish this provision, according to which workers with social criteria will do the work they have done in private contractors? And when I talk about reasons of public interest, I mean beyond the economics that I assume you will invoke. The social reasons, giving a decent job to workers. What were the reasons why you abolished this provision? And what do you intend to do about a possible extension due to COVID? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kokalis, allow me to begin by clarifying that I have already answered a identical question put by Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis on 18 October in this Chamber. It's all right, let's repeat it. Let's go to your question. Undoubtedly all the actions and actions of the public administration must be directed towards the service and protection of the public interest. And that is exactly what happens in the case we are talking about here. Let's see the facts first. By the decision of the OAED Board of Directors in December 2018, the recruitment of staff to cover cleaning needs of buildings housed by the Agency's services under contracts of an indefinite duration of twenty-four months and with effect not beyond 2 July 2021 was approved. However, recruitment began late in October 2019. That is why the OAED Board of Directors approved in May this year to amend the work contracts of the close-up staff and to complete twenty-four months of employment from the initial recruitment for each job. These contracts are concluded in this period and cannot be further extended under the existing legislation. Why is that? In January 2021, Law 4765 was passed. Article 61 of the Act abolished Article 8 of Law 4506/2017 which enabled cleaning staff to be recruited by bodies in the wider public sector by means of fixed-term public contracts. The purpose of Law 4765 is to rationalise the costs of filling positions through the conduct of a central procedure against many fragmented ones by promoting exactly what your question is based on, namely the promotion of the public interest. As I will explain briefly, this process has reduced overall budgetary costs, while at the same time speeding up the process of filling up positions. In other words, with the provisions of Law 4765, the public interest is served in terms of enhanced economic efficiency and efficiency, a reduction in budgetary costs, but also a reduction in administrative and service burdens. Returning to this case, Decision 5051/108 of 28 September 2021 on the OAED Board of Directors established the necessity and the approval of an international tender to meet the cleaning needs of the buildings where the Agency’s services are housed. The annual budget expenditure for the tender is EUR 3,753 000 without VAT - VAT moves from the public to the contractor anyway - and is marginally lower than the annual cost of the 2019 tender, which was EUR 3,759,000. However, in this comparison, it should be taken into account that the 2021 competition concerns the recruitment of five hundred forty-forty persons as cleaning staff, while in this year 2019 recruitment is for five hundred people. In other words, we are talking about forty-one more employment and marginally less costs, and so far it is not just that. In addition, taking into account the public expenditure incurred in the previous 2019 tender concerning supplies of cleaning and running carrots for the labour needs of the staff who are now being borne by the project contractor, and the administrative costs incurred in the OAED by the specific procedure for the selection and management of cleaning staff, as well as the procurement tenders, according to the Agency’s estimates, the annual costs are around EUR 4 million. With the tender launched by the OAED, over 6% of public spending is being saved, and as I said before, employment is rising. In other words, if the calculations are made in terms of expenditure per employee, the public benefit is over 20%. On the basis of these facts, it is clear that both in absolute and relative terms the aims of rationalising the costs for the State budget and reducing the administrative burden and the administrative burden are served by the open tender issued by OAS. There is therefore no question of increasing public costs by this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Red has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, with all due respect, I would prefer it, and I ask you to put yourself politically in your dentistry. I know the history of the case of these workers, as you know. We don't need to read a page or two. It's clear. A particular service from cleanliness can be made by two categories of people. The first is private contractors. The second is the workers. For the second category, it has been decided - not by us or you - by the Council of State that it is legal, as it serves all the reasons of public interest, on the one hand, as regards the financial, on the other hand, the social. And the question is: why do you choose the first category without particular data, but for a little less budgetary costs? Have you presented an official study of how much these contractors will cost at the end? I repeat, the financial costs are important. But it's not the only one. It is also the guarantee of insurance legislation. It's the social reasons. Therefore, from the absence of a specific answer, at least political, I can conclude that it is your policy that you choose the first category rather than the second category. You could say the opposite if the decision of the Council of State had not been taken, Minister, which said that the 2016 process was lawful. And what does it achieve? You will allow me to read it: 'Achieving the financial benefit'. Do you hear that? The Council of State said so. ‘Secondly, improving the working conditions of workers in the abovementioned enterprises and thirdly, addressing unforeseen needs’. Three reasons are met with the employment of workers. You said in your protology one and told him vaguely, in general, that the cost is less. That is why I want you to take up your policy. Because you choose these kinds of services and you do not just to the OAED. You do it in hospitals too. Why do you choose this kind of policy, which cannot under any circumstances be classified as social, Minister, when the same work can be done by the workers, and by achieving all three reasons: both budgetary and social and service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u69	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bonde, with all due respect, you will allow me to say that you have probably failed to follow my reply carefully. With very specific elements, what I have shown you is not just the financial benefit, it is also the greatest employment. What does it look like to you? Higher costs and lower jobs? It does not seem preferable to us. As this issue is being discussed very strongly, beyond the specific elements of this particular case, a number of issues need to be cleared up. No one ignores the concerns of workers in cleanliness, whether we are talking about the OAED or any other public body. These workers have offered their services consistently and in particular during the health crisis, where ensuring hygiene in the service premises was given additional importance. The OAED, by decision of the Board of Directors in September, which approved the notice of open competition for building cleaning services, applies the legislation in force, i.e. Law 4765/2021. Under the same legislation, several other public bodies, bodies and legal persons have opened competitions. Because, as you can see, the legislation does not apply properly. From there on, this is a purely operational issue of the OAED, which implements the legislation to meet the needs for cleanliness in the buildings housing its central services. And this is trying to do so in terms of efficiency and cost-efficiency, taking advantage of the relevant provisions of the law. Even if a tendering procedure were to take place for fixed-term contracts, as would have been the case if the change had not taken place in the provisions of the legislation, it is not certain that the employees who were recruited would be re-occupied by the 2019 invitation after a selection procedure had taken place with specific criteria. It goes without saying that those who choose whether or not they have a service in the area of cleanliness of the organisation will work fully conscientiously and supplying themselves, as has been the case with the workers who were recruited under the previous legislation. What we have to keep is that it is not in any way the case that the OAS is dismissing workers in cleanliness. It is true that the OAED, taking into account the needs of cleanliness and existing legislation, has launched the relevant tender, thus forming its specifications, in order to recruit more employees in response to the 2019 call and with the lowest total cost for the public. In this way, the public interest is ensured in terms of efficiency and efficiency, while the needs of the OAED are served, without the same administrative or procedural burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-05-S1-commons.u72	With the agreement of the House at 11.25 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday 8 November 2021 at 15.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
