ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 29-7-2021 authorisation, RoZ's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday, July 29, 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Modernisation of the Greek Stock Exchange, new digital services and strengthening of digital governance and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us that today the 967, 983, 966, 969 and 971 topical questions will be discussed. We begin with the first under number 967/22-7-2021, the first-round question of the new Republic of Athens, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "How was EFKA led to this mess?". Mrs. Pipili, good morning. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u3	Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and wish you the efforts of the workers, the administration and your own, with the creation of the automatic telephone centre, the 1555, of the EPCA, which was the basis for the timely question. I was personally surprised that about a month and a half ago you dared to touch the senior public administration. I am referring to the fact that you sent a sworn administrative examination to the general inspector of EFKA Peloponnese, on the basis of your on-site visit to EFKA Corinth, where you were strongly protested by the workers there that for about forty days, while we had already spent two heats, the air conditioners were not working. I stress this because there is, in general, an impunity in the public, which is angering the citizens on a daily basis and how much more than an impunity at the highest and highest level of government. So I thought, because we see that the issue of EFKA is something that is arousing half the Greek society and is making the rest of the half that, of course, it normally fulfils its tax tasks, that it would be worth making a historical regression on how the EFKA became at this level, and especially because of the organisational failure of EFKA, which prevents him from awarding pensions within timescales. And most importantly, we are all talking and writing e - EFKA, an Electronic National Social Security Institution. What has been implemented at the level of digitalisation and internal functions in order to justify the surname ‘electronic’? Otherwise leave the ‘e’, not called e - EFKA, to be called EFKA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pipilis. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, good morning. You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Pipilis, let's all think about what the FBI is. It is the result of a merger of problem funds such as IKA, TEBE, TSAY and so on. The merger at first was nothing wrong. However, it was quite wrong, as I say at one time to my colleagues, all the other scientists served legal science, something was done on paper, in theory right, with an agreement at the time and with the troika, which did not work in practice. In fact there is no clear, modern organizational plan in this organization. That's why he has a series of problems. And the fact that this fencing - a meltdown without merger rules exacerbated the problems because it confused employees, software, procedures, the insured pensioners, and so we arrived in the summer of 2019 to have inherited from the previous government a million and fifty thousand different insurance outstandings, either pensions, retroactive or all kinds of allowances, anything. You know we're talking about a giant problem here. We're talking about the "August Crown" in relation to any Minister or Administrator of the FYROM is called to manage this case. So the effort we have to do is very flat-track without any doubt. There is a question, for example, even with the Agency's balance sheets which are not respected, to reach this level. But I would personally choose two issues and these are the ones that I have chosen to tackle as a priority. One issue is that which you yourself mentioned, which is in itself the operational situation of the agency and therefore the service of the citizens, insured and retired. The second issue is the delay in the awarding of pensions, because it is not understood in Greece, Europe, in 2021, that the insured wait so long to get their pension when this was not the case in 2015 - and nonetheless it was on a much smaller scale - or in 2010 or 2005. Instead of going forward, we have gone back because, I repeat, without rules and principles of merger made by the previous government in 2016. We have therefore planned to give the battle, which I have described on two fronts: on the one hand, it is the battle on the front of the service - I suppose I will return to my second language - where we go with the telephone centre, which is not the only initiative we take, we have other initiatives that we have recently announced, such as cooperation with the JEPs, such as the electronic service My EFKA Live, the expansion of digital transactions, the electronic appointments, and on the other hand, the fight we are giving for pensions. In the summer of 2019 when we received from the previous government ten thousand pensions about a month. Now we've come to give twenty thousand pensions a month. Of course that's not enough. That is why we believe that in three, four months from now we are talking about we will reach thirty thousand pensions per month, and so in the autumn I think there will be a marked divergence in the problem of the award of pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Is there also a questioning very intense from the public, I add my own: Money the Greek State has to draw up the era, which I hope will now be close, which will be able to get fifty thousand even a month? Is there the money? That's the one question. The other question is that the public administration also clearly has many bad aspects, which, for me, have emerged from the philosophical rule, which prevailed in many politicians of all the parties, who have ruled, who have never dared to make the slightest reciprocity. For let us not forget, apart from impunity, there is, of course, also the constitutionally guaranteed permanentity of civil servants. This is the one, condemned by public opinion, by bad civil servants or even few or many. The other problem, which I found to be a journalist throughout my life, is the disgraceful conditions in which public administration, in the vast majority of its faults, gave it an excuse not to be consistent with obligations. I am referring specifically to the lousy EFKA building, the main centre on Nikiforos Street, which is to be ashamed of seeing it outside, and also to other branches of the EFKA that you are ashamed of being allowed by the state to work in these circumstances. So I think that at the same time you should bend to these workers' needs - you did it in Corinth with the issue of air conditioners that did not work - because it is shameful that when we have evolved as a society, we have gone forward, we have these triumphs from Europe. I am referring to the fact that we are Greece, the Memorandum of Understanding, Greece, which has been afflicted for a decade, and which, with synergy and Europeans, is the first country, the Commissioner with great pleasure, who has completed the ESDP and we will immediately get money. You should also attach importance to the relocation or renovation, in accordance with the modern requirements of ergonomics, so that there is no excuse for the officials or trade unions, who have never been abducted for this reasonable reason I have put to you so that we can move forward as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u9	You can give me the opportunity to go a little deeper in my dentext on the infrastructure issues of the ECA and the employees. There is no doubt that the infrastructure is unacceptable both in terms of cadastral and mechanical equipment, which makes the life and work of employees more difficult. I've seen it very close to my visits, I've recognized it, I recognize it once again. But we have started at infrastructure level to make some improvements as a priority. For example, we had the unacceptable phenomenon - and we have it - that there were no modern computers, modern computers in the body. When I first made the first visits, I found that at each store that I was going I was looking at a Windows 2000 computer, completely outdated, and indeed the central system was connected only to a computer in each shop and even to Nikiforos, which you mentioned, through this computer to communicate with central and otherwise the other employees would have to photo the papers in stacks and operate as the employees operated in the 1960s and 1970s. There was already a computer order before me. Already installed, installed, and in these days about eight hundred new computers have been ordered and more. In any case, I expect that, by the end of next year, some six thousand computers will have been installed in the organization, officials will have been covered, the agency will have been upgraded on this side and the lives of the employees will have been made easier. There are similar problems at other levels. You referred to air conditions. But that is also an internal responsibility for the heads themselves, for the managers, who are responsible for doing their job. That is why I said that he should go to disciplinary office or as Director-General at the Peloponnese Regional Agency. Because it doesn't seem to me to be tolerated to let your colleague be baked in Corinth, with an endless exchange of correspondence between Tripolis, Corinth, Athens and the others. That's not the point. In general, the logic of indifference is not understood. I told you, I've seen employees who have given since the delay in their time, say from their family to better do their work in these difficult circumstances, but at the same time there is the phenomenon of indifference. With the same honesty as I say one thing. So it cannot be accepted - from me it will never be accepted - that indifference towards citizens, that of despotic behaviour. Even yesterday, a complaint came to me that at the store of Acharna because of a coronary entered a sign outside that "we are closing and we will notify you, there will be a notice later", without clarifying when. So there were people who had booked an electronic appointment and who were not expected to get a phone call and tell them: don't come tomorrow. Sit down at your house until we see what we're going to do and we'll let you know. I would therefore say this in public for the first time, and I would ask for a check on this. We cannot trouble people and say that because we are ministers, governors, civil servants, we are a different category of citizens, more equal to the others, and we do not have to deal with the controls and penalties facing anyone else in their everyday lives. I'll make it clear. I feel like we're allies with the vast majority of EKA employees. I know they have a series of difficulties to face, but it's not unthinkable or indifference, ochartism, bureaucratic perception. We are dealing with millions of Greeks in this organization, and we are dealing with the substance of social policy, and that is why we should all give ourselves the best. Like I'm strict with myself, with the administration of the FBI, so I'm with the managers and the ordinary employees of the FBI. We have to do our best. There is already an improvement on both levels, which I mentioned earlier, both at the level of service and at the level of pension award. In any case, some foundations have been laid. I am not saying that we will be a paradise automatically, but the foundations have been laid, so on one front, that of the service, with the various initiatives that we are taking, such as a telephone centre, My EFKA Live, JEPs and the others, and at the level of pension awarding where we have positive developments because of both certified accountants, lawyers, computers who go in and so on, because of all these developments, I believe that in three or four months from now we will have a much better picture in the body.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u10	Is there any money?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u11	The problem is not there, in the adequacy of credits, pensions and that makes the problem more acute, and it also makes it more imperative that we all do our job better, because there is the funds to give the pensions. That is why we need to get the bucket over and the pensions are given an hour ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Minister, all the good times. I would be very grateful if we could keep up with the time. You know that when there is time, I am too flexible, but we have to hand over the Chamber at 10:30 because there is legislative work afterwards. That's my agony! We move on to the debate of the fourth under No 966/20-7-2021 on a topical question from the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakkas, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Britain and illegal repropriations of immigrants and refugees". Mrs. Konnakka, good morning, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. In recent times, Minister, you are aware that serious complaints about violent and illegal repropriations of immigrants and refugees have increased at the Greek border. Recently, the conclusion of the working party of the Committee on Civil Liberties and European Parliament on the control of FRONTEX was presented, concluding that fundamental human rights are violated at the external borders of the European Union, including a number of specific features. In fact, complaints about illegal re-propulsions in the Aegean Sea are included under the responsibility of the Greek authorities, which are covered. However, the same report, of course, leaves unanswered questions of additional concern to cover the dangerous action and the reactionary role of FRONTEX. In June, Amnesty International's report on 'Greece: Violence, lies and re-progressions' was published, which also mentions the continued and systematic use of brutal practices with illegal re-processions by Greece as a well established method of border control on land and at sea. Such complaints were precedented by the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights. There are a series of publications in the Greek and foreign press. Of course, you know that there is an ongoing report by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay on the investigation of incidents of illegal, violent, racist retreat or expulsion of more than seven thousand foreigners in the period from March to December 2020. So you also owe your ministry, but the government as a whole is clear and concrete answers. For the last time, the only time you choose to present with celebrations is the numbers to reduce refugee and migration flows, which you know is still provisional, without, of course, mentioning neither the intensity of repression and authoritarianism at the expense of these people, which, of course, is not undone by yesterday's new request to return a thousand nine hundred and eight people to Turkey in the name of legality. A legality which means caging and suffering for the uprooted, but which ultimately gives rise to suffering and dangers for the Greek people, because, at the time you quote these elements, reality shows your preparations for the new closed structures on the islands, the plans for the new European Union for Asylum, which upgrades the action of all kinds of NGOs in refugees, the strengthening of FRONTEX, intensified its arms on the Greek border with upgraded responsibilities and aimed at tens of thousands of personnel by 2027. So, on this basis, we ask you: What do you answer these specific complaints? What measures will the government take to stop the alleged illegal repropriations of migrants and refugees from the Greek authorities? You intend to continue the dangerous policy against the country's sovereign rights by entrusting the border to the European mechanisms of repression, such as FRONTEX, which not only ensure, but systematically violate the rights of immigrants and refugees in cooperation with the Greek authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Konnakas. The Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr. Metarakis, will answer. Minister, good morning, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, I was going to start my prototype differently today, in response to Turkish propaganda and its reproduction by various, referring to the way the European Union's maritime borders are protected, but the news obliges me to refer to the current incident in Lesvos, where Turkey has allowed its obligations, according to the 2016 Joint Declaration on a boat with thirteen people to start from Turkish territorial waters. It did not save it, as it should, within Turkish territorial waters and the Greek coastguard was forced, first of all, to protect human life into Turkish territorial waters, to rescue ten people and unfortunately, according to the information, three people are still missing in Turkish territorial waters. Until I came to Parliament, I did not know that Turkey has responded to this incident. Now we're going to the point of your question. The government's policy is clear. We do not want to be the gateway to the smugglers in the European Union and we have deprived hundreds of millions of euros of human suffering smugglers operating to the east of our country. From there on, our country has land and sea borders, and there are European regulations, and there is international law specifying what our country has the right to do. We are therefore protecting our borders, and in the last 12 months, the flows towards the Greek islands have decreased by 96%, a thousand two-and-a-half arrivals within 2021. I would remind you, Mr Konnakas, when we applied a policy - the previous government - which did not protect our maritime borders in the same way, only one day in 2015 in Lesvos, we had over ten thousand arrivals at risk of millions of people being locked in our country, and that is something we cannot allow. With regard to the report of the European Parliament, it has many constructive proposals how FRONTEX can improve its working methods even more. And I would remind you that FRONTEX is an armed security body of the European Union. Its task is to protect Europe's external borders in particular. In particular, on page 5, therefore, it states that the competent subcommittee of the European Parliament has found no evidence of the participation of FRONTEX in any push back. It is important to stress that countries have the right to protect their borders. Result? SYRIZA left us on the Greek islands on the day of the 2019 elections, seventeen thousand trapped people. Today, this figure has been reduced to six and a half thousand. But I would also like to give you a thought on your second-guess that I imagine if you are in favour of open-ended policy, then you will also be in favour of creating multiple new structures on our islands. I don't know if you suggest this, I don't know if you want to see Moria in Lesvos again or if you want to see Viale in Chios again, or if you want to see Vathy in Samos with seven thousand people in the capital of the island, which Vathy closes on September 30th, since the new closed structure of Samos will be inaugurated on September 18th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u16	Mrs. Konnakka has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u17	Minister, this is a very serious debate and it is not for political consumption. I heard your answer. It cannot be presented in defence of the request for non-lawful re-exports as a alleged attack on the protection and defence of borders. Nor, of course, should refugees and immigrants be presented as intruders who do not need protection. You know very well of our opinion about the role of FRONTEX. And if, for some reason, the people should be concerned about who finally jeopardising the country's borders, it is for the Greek governments themselves to grant this sensitive area of protection of the Greek borders to a transnational military mechanism of the European Union, when known, if you like, the role of the European Union, which, in its attitude, has proved to encourage the doubts and on the part of Turkey's ruling order in relation to sovereign rights. But you cannot develop and reproduce this argument by hiding and not answering whether these people ultimately need protection and respect by international law. Our question concerns people outdated and not visitors in our country, who are forced to leave their homes, because their homeland has been turned into a deserted place by the imperialist interventions in which both the European Union and NATO are involved. But they also have responsibility for the Greek governments, because they support them. For us, even a dead man in the Aegean Sea, in Evros or elsewhere, at the border, even one and one person who has faced the intimidation of illegal repropriation by intimidation, threat or much more, with torture practices, is a huge issue. We are telling you that we are not in any way questioning the efforts made by the men and women of the Port Authority. Many of them have shown too much zeal to save human lives. It is a different thing, and it is a different thing, that the directions given for this and the European Union's institutions, such as FRONTEX and the government, are being given. You are well aware that the principle of non-refoulement is a fundamental rule of the Geneva Convention and of the protection of human rights. Of course, these were made under conditions of a better international relationship for the peoples, with the decisive contribution of the socialist states. That is why, in such circumstances, the entire international asylum law is systematically degraded. Of course, the Geneva Convention is becoming literally rampant even through the European Union's provocative policy, such as its most important violation of it is the example and reactionary construction of the concept of safe third country by European directive 32/2013, which you, of course, and the previous government of SYRIZA, accepting it, making - if you like - at least provocatively the ex post crocodile tears for the recent CYA issued by your ministry, which recognises as a safe third country in Turkey, which, of course, also has as its basis the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey, signed in March 2016. So you are so aware of our position on the role of FRONTEX, which it has never had, nor will it have a role of protecting the devastated people, nor will its reactionary role change by resigning or changing the individual director. That is why you know that, from the very beginning, we have indicated that even this recent conclusion of the Committee on Civil Liberties' Working Party on Civil Liberties is actually washing and trying to rinse up the role of FRONTEX with such supposed resignations and so on, eventually covering up its dangerous action. You also know, very well, that we have a permanent position to dismantle all non-governmental organisations and every individual of the issues relating to the protection of refugees and migrants, that all of this should be the responsibility of the state alone. But it is your policy, like your predecessor, which is on the other side and is constantly strengthening it. That is why, despite the fact that we do not adopt the various European findings indiscriminately, the seriousness of the complaints remains. In fact, no concrete answers were given today. On the contrary, your vague refusals by trying to change the subject of the debate, by reintroducing an issue that you yourself are giving birth to your policy, because the closed centres on the islands continue to create, despite what you say, reduced flows, because you know very well that for the perpetuality of these reduced flows no one can guarantee when these people start for these reasons. Therefore, Minister, a great deal has been gathered for us too, it cannot be said that all this comes from slandering by your political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Konnakka. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's a oxymo, my colleague, what you're saying in your dentistry. You said that we are not here for political consumption, but we are probably from your question. On the one hand, you are questioning and asking questions about the role of the European Union, about the aims of FRONTEX, about the role of the NGOs and, on the other hand, you are supporting your question in reports by the European Union and the NGOs, whose role you have called into question. So that's a oxymobile in your question. I will, however, join with you for the positive comments you have made on the Port Authority, the Greek Coast Guard, for the superhuman effort they are making, firstly, to protect human lives, as today, as last week in the other shipwreck where there are still missing, according to the statements of the survivors and, at the same time, to protect the borders of Greece, the Aegean islands, our islands from the phenomenon that we experienced from 2015 to 2019. But we do so with full respect for the rules of international legality. However, because you raised interesting issues, first of all, Turkey, in the view of the European Union and Greece, is a safe country. It is a safe country hosting refugees and immigrants. Therefore, these uprooted people you said in your question may indeed be like this when ten countries started away, but when they arrived in Turkey they are no longer outrooted. They've found international protection. From that point on, when they come to our country, a majority of them are illegally entering economic migrants and our country does not want a closed border policy. It wants a policy of legal immigration, such as every year we give permission to thousands of people to come to work in the fields and other places where we need labour hands, but we will not allow smugglers, poachers to determine who will enter our country, especially at a time when you see that many neighbouring states of the European Union, as Belarus recently employs immigration, in violation of the Geneva Treaty, the concept of'refugee', which is directly moving from the country in which they are at risk. This raises major issues for the European Union, which must be dealt with. In this context, I would remind you that the European Union has an agreement with Turkey, which, according to the European Commission, remains active, firstly, Turkey to prohibit illegal departures from Turkish territorial waters and, secondly, to accept the returns of those judged to be illegal economic immigrants, that they are not entitled to international protection. Yesterday, we submitted a new request and a statement of support has already been made by the European Commission for the return of a thousand nine hundred eight immigrants from our islands, from Chios, from Samos, from Kos and Leros, to islands that now have a completely different environment from what we experienced in the past few years, with almost zero flows, with few remaining in hospitality structures, which continue to be emptied at a speed and with the creation of new closed non-civil structures, so that we can provide the necessary living conditions for these people on the one hand, on the other, an increased safety environment for both our staff and local communities. Reducing the flows for us remains a primary option. I will close, reminding you that border guarding is only one of six meters. The six pillars for reducing the flow of resources to the country are as follows: first, we are keeping our borders. Secondly, we have a rapid separation of refugees from illegally entering economic immigrants. Thirdly, we have much more deportations. In the last 12 months, far more than those who have come have left our country. Fourthly, they are the new closed-ended centres, which play a very important role in preventing those who are not refugees, who know that we now have the opportunity to separate them. Fifthly, we have the control of the few NGOs active in smuggling and sixthly, the reduction of the financial privileges we gave asylum seekers, because we had reached the oxymoil to fund, as a country, from European funds, the money they gave the poachers to bring them. This policy will continue. Our country is not a clear vine. We will never live on our islands again what we have lived since 2015. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Let's go to the next question. The second question will be discussed under number 969/22-7-2021 in the first cycle of SYRIZA's MP Kilkis - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “In despair to individuals active in the Open Protection Centres of the Elderly (CAP)”. Mrs Agathopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with the coming of the coronary in our country in March 2020, the first lockdown was decided where they closed down businesses and among them the Open Older Protection Centres, the CFP, and therefore the canisters, which were operating within them, were closed. These companies, like the CAP, have not been opened to date, i.e. they have been closed for more than a year and a half, but not by their own fault, but by government decisions - and rightly so - because for the elderly the pandemic is much more dangerous. Nevertheless, while the obligations of both their business and their households are running, they have received no financial support except for the first 800 euros for the months of April - March 2020 and the 534 euros for the month of May 2020. Some of them also received some of the repayable advances, but let us not forget that they were loans and not only those that were closed down, but also those that were opened. Therefore, the Cylons of the CAP should be entitled to special compensation for all months until now. From July 2020 until today, ten questions have been tabled, eight parliamentary questions from SYRIZA, one from New Democracy, one for the JRC on this matter. None of them, however, have been given a substantial answer because the Cylons of the Cylons have been left without financial support for such a long time. So today we ask you what you intend to do about it for the months that have not been paid to date and whether it has been resolved. There were issues with CSR. Perhaps there were other issues that you should tell us because we have many answers here, but there is no answer on the substance of this issue. We would really like to know what you have done for these businesses. How many are there? They're five hundred, are they a thousand across Greece? It's not more than that. It is small costs and easy to find out what these businesses are so that you can financially support them. Because both the business and their family budgets are running and their only income was there. We would like to see an informative response today to what has been done a year and a half after this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs Agathopoulos. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will answer. Mr. Zabwe, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the emergence and dispersion of the coronary pandemic, as you know, the Government has taken a number of support measures and I would mention, for example, the granting of seven cycles of trustworthy advance in order to include all those affected by the expansion of COVID -19. More specifically, with regard to the support and support measures taken and related to professionals involved in the candles in Open Older Centres, the so-called CAP, I would like to give you the following: Initially, from 20 March 2021 by the Act of Legislative content with VEK I68 ratified by Article 1 of Law No.4683/2020, it was foreseen that the leases to an establishment of an enterprise - and here in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 44 of Law No.4735/2020 - are to be regarded as professional and the leases to a establishment of canteens operating in buildings housing structures or services of the Local Government and legal persons governed by public law - are exempted from the obligation to pay 40% of the total lease for the months of March and April 2020, derogating from the provisions and leases. Subsequently, the exemption of 40% of the total lease fee for this lease category and for May and June 2020 was extended by Articles 15 of Law No 4960/2020 and 3 of Law No 4722/2020 respectively. In addition, the Cylons within the CFP under number A1251/2020 and A1274/2020 decisions of the Ministry of Finance are exempted from the obligation to pay 40% of the total rent for November 2020 and December 2020 respectively. Furthermore, for the universal support and support of the affected enterprises, including in the CFP, I would like to tell you that under number A1025/2021, A1063/2021, A1101/2021 and A1114/2020 decisions of the Ministry of Finance, these undertakings are exempted from the obligation to pay the total rent for the months of January, February, March, April, May 2021 respectively. In addition to what I mentioned, we are aware that under the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 132 of Law No4692/20 it was foreseen that the leases of municipal properties in which enterprises are housed with a rented municipality or a legal person governed by public law, which expired on 31/12/2020, were extended for an additional year at the request of the leaser. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mrs Agathopoulos, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u25	Minister, I am very sorry that today you have been continuing the same tactic as the answers you have given for over a year and a half. We are asking you clearly. These people have closed their only business. They don't have a living. And you're answering that you've been discharged of a percentage of their rents. Nice to meet you. That's what I'm free professional, but I'm open today, I'm entitled to it. You're answering that you gave them repayable advances. You are answering us that they have the possibility to grant interest on existing loans, which you do not know if they have existing loans. You are answering us for entrepreneurship-enhancing programmes. What does entrepreneurship have to do with the Cylinderellas? You are answering us for the possibility of borrowing with working capital from the COVID Guarantee Fund and the TPIX of the Development Bank. But you are not answering us on the basis of the substance. And the essence is one. I will ask the more specific questions, whether I can manage and get a more specific answer. So the question is: Will you find these beneficiaries? How many are there? Will you answer me here today? They're five hundred? Are they eight hundred? Is it a thousand? Well, there's a few of them. Will you find them regardless of their CAR and compensate them for the months from June 2020 until today, who have not taken a euro so that they can live while enforcing their business? That is the first question. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Will you relieve them - I am talking about discharge and not of suspension - of the payment of individual insurance contributions for as long as they hold limitation measures without their loss of pension rights? Will you suspend the arrangements for debts to PPC or other private providers and other former ECAIs for as long as the pandemic lasts? You will be suspended for these people until they open all kinds of forced collection measures, seizures, auctions etc. What does everyone have and you'll ban the auctioning of their first home? Questions are very specific. They concern, as I have said, a portion of people who have spent a year and a half without income, and you are, at least, obliged to give a clearer answer here, because we have been asking you for a year and a half, or rather they are asking you themselves, and we simply carry their voices and have not received a half response to the substance. I don't know how many pages of rhetoric here and of theory and of FEK and number, as you mentioned today, but nothing on the substance of the matter and you will forgive me, but I can only call this to these people who are struggling for the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Zabwe, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I do not think this is a rhetoric, as the honourable Member has said. These are clear measures of government support, relief of all those who have suffered, they have been hit by the pandemic and I have therefore specifically referred to numbers and decisions in the measures taken by the government. In addition, Mr President, I would like to say - and I am referring, but not limited to a number of measures, which the government has taken on the honourable Member's questions - that, with Articles 1 and 2 of the draft Legislative Act FEC I55 of March 2020, which deals with dealing with negative effects on the Coronovirus, VAT is being suspended and the recovery of certified debts is being recovered. In addition, Article 1 of the FVC A'7530 of March 2020, concerning measures to address the pandemic and ratified by Article 1 of Law 4684/2020, provides a 25% discount for long-term payments of certified corporate debts under specific terms and conditions. More than that, under Law 4690/2020, VAT rates are reduced from 1-6-2020 to 31-10-2020, which lasts for the duration of Law 4728/2020 to 30 April 2021. In particular, the VAT rate for non-alcoholic beverages and aerated waters is set at 13%. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to point out that, as you know, the Ministry of Finance is constantly following developments relating to the coronary pandemic and the impact it has on businesses, particularly on the workers affected, on the economy. It is blaming and studying the demands of all actors and citizens and making the necessary improvements and reductions, particularly in taxation, and it will proceed, if and where appropriate, to new initiatives to support those affected in the context of the country's budgetary possibilities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u28	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a good day to both of you. Have a nice summer. You were the best twin in times. Thank you very much. The following topical questions are not discussed after consultation: The third, with number 999/26-2021, timely question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Official information on the growing and repeated seismic activity in the area of Heraklion and prevention measures. The fifth under number 984/26-7-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Fascious, unfair and irrational charges for banks against citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. The fifth under number 968/22-7-2021 topical question for the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Maria Athanasios, to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Dead teachers have, unknownly, a place of teaching at a Special School of Secondary Education in Piraeus, where the HERE students, not being deaf, can only communicate through a speech with the teachers. The fourth under number 981/26-7-2021 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Awards of Archaeologists - Librarians for the operation of the National Library and of public libraries. And finally, the second question by number 980/26-7-2021 of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To permanentize contract workers in the care of the University of Crete". Next, the third, with number 983/26-7-2021, is a topical question by SYRIZA's Deputy Minister of Health - A Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Question and reflection following the revelations of the Deputy Minister of Health on irrevocable condemnation decisions concerning medical errors and not announced to the medical association concerned". Mr. Triantafylides, good morning. You have the floor for two minutes for your beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by expressing our deepest congratulations to Greek Olympian, Stephanos Duskos, who has made Greece a proud world by winning the gold medal this morning by the mirror, the rower. And, of course, these unanimous congratulations, Mr Minister, and this is the responsibility of the executive, to be accompanied by those measures, beyond the tweets, the thick words and slots at airports, to mark the genuine support of athletes, to give soul and body to the sport through which they make Greece world-famous. They are our global ambassadors and they deserve this support either they operate in the public sector or they operate in the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u30	I mentioned it at the beginning of the meeting, Mr Triantafylides, as is Korakakis. Congratulations to our girl. She did her best.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I come to the question, which is essentially the follow-up, is the second part of a tragedy in progress, and I would like to say to you, Minister Chiara, that today you are not answering me, you respond as executive authority, representing the institutional position of the Minister of Justice to three families: The family of forty-year-old, whose mother stated that by listening to Father Bessarion from the Renouncing, who lost the fourteen-year-old Gogo from medical error, she remembered her own case and experienced this case again, which experienced her in April 2005 and the irrevocable conviction made six years later, in 2012. It was an irrevocable convict. You should answer the family of the wronged Sinouris, the son of twenty-four years old from the Keramoti of Kavala, who also left the same scalpel, from the doctor himself in 2017. In 2021 we have the inn, the fourteen-year-old baby who leaves life. We amazed to hear your colleague Mr. Kontozamanis reveal to me eighteen days ago in the Chamber of Parliament that the irrevocably convicted appeal decision of 2012 was never known to the respective Medical Association of Thessaloniki nine years later. To transfer accurately from the minutes of the House, which he said and, in fact, we were all shocked and the next day it became an issue in all the information media: "The decision..." - said Mr. Kontozamanis - "... of the Trimelic Court of Thessaloniki in 2012 did not come to the knowledge of the Medical Association of Thessaloniki in accordance with the relevant Public Prosecutor, despite the fact that it is the duty of the latter to announce without delay...". Immediately means no timeline, no delay, immediately. We are talking 2012, 2021, 30 July, has not yet been sent to this irrevocable appeal and despite the fact that it is established to the President of the relevant Medical Association. "And indeed..." - says Mr. Kontozamanis - "with recent legislative intervention, the obligation of the criminal courts to send without delay..." - says the second time - "...in legal persons governed by public law, such as medical associations, copies of irrevocable judgments concerning health professionals". And Mr Conzozamanis - you are both members of the same government - makes it even more difficult. He says: "Since your question, Mr. Triantafylides, we have searched and seen..." - I read from the Minutes - "...that in other cases, in other cases, some disguises, sentences or exonerations and some criminal prosecutions or assaults against doctors have not been announced to the Medical Association of Thessaloniki" etc. Then, as the executive does - I will not say every time, not to blame you or all the ministers - it begins and rounds them. In other words, "I want to say that the state as a whole is respected in full, the laws and procedures are enclosed with due confidence by medical associations" and so on. You and I, Tsiaras and Triantafylides, today, from the Chamber of Parliament, give tests on whether we can get through and say that politics is not "and they have lived better", but we can put the finger on the type of suns and say "Why?" And only keep this question, which is asked by the father of Bessarius and by the family of Keramoti of Kavala, that if he then had nine years ago, in due time, he is informed, as the law stipulates, the medical association may have taken the decision to temporarily or definitively suspend the exercise of a medical profession by the same doctor and possibly two human lives, two new children being with us in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. The Minister for Justice will answer Mr. Constantine Tsiara. Mr. Minister, good morning. You have three minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, unfortunately, we have to admit that our presence here in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament, in order to meet the constitutional obligations - you as a Member of Parliament and I as a controlled Minister - unfortunately, I repeat, has as a result the tragic incident, the loss of a fourteen-year-old girl, a loss which we would all wish had been avoided. That's the reality. And we certainly all have to agree - and your question is a really good occasion - that we must not allow that to happen again. There is no doubt at all that the state's primary concern is to protect the supreme goods for every citizen, who cannot, of course, rule out life itself and health as the first. And that is not just a list, which we could easily, you know, formulate among us in a question - a debate on parliamentary scrutiny, but an absolute constitutional requirement and an unconditional requirement - an obligation of the social rule of law. There's no excuse. I want to be honest to you. There is no excuse at all when we especially mourn a young girl's death as a society. Nor is there any justification for social stereotypes that may dominate Greek society and have children's victims. There is obviously no excuse, when some people irresponsibly exercise the function, which they chose to pursue as a professional occupation and of course there is no excuse, when the state fails to control such behaviour and protect citizens from the jurors. On the contrary, the state and the government each time have a duty to monitor and reassess the procedures and mechanisms by which the various controls are carried out. And I do want to be honest to you. If we have to see and judge what the reality is, we have to admit that in this particular case we have a process that failed. The legal framework existed. The legal framework existed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u34	'You failed' you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u35	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u36	Of course! The legal framework existed. Do you know when? Since 1957, many years, which was certainly updated by Law 4512/2018 under Article 320(9) and have been accurate since then for the procedure, which provided for the disclosure of sentences against doctors to medical associations what had to be done. As I was informed, with the number number one - and all these documents are available to you, I will give them to you at the end - under the number 6717-72021 of the Ice City Prosecutor's Public Prosecutor, in the context of his supervisory responsibility for this matter, made all the public prosecutors of the country subject to its number 74/2/10/2005 document. This is an emphasis on the obligation to communicate to the medical associations of parliaments the decisions of convicted or non-medical doctors for disciplinary purposes. Unfortunately, however, this has not been done in this case. That's the truth. I shall return to my dentistry with more detail. Always know that independence of justice presupposes its own internal control and, possibly, the inability of any Minister of Justice either to provoke any procedure or, much more, to create certain data relating to possible criminal prosecutions. I will come back with more details.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Triantafylides - I do not see much room left to you, it was sincere - you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u38	Minister, they are waiting, they are expecting convincing explanations and not 'and they have lived better'. This story surpasses party, intergroup, political controversy, everything. We're talking about life and death. We're talking about cases that really touch the most sensitive strings in our society. But it is clear that answers must be given. Who has been responsible for the court of Thessaloniki and has not been sent for nine years? Was it just a negligent acquaintance? Did it happen after consultation? Why is that what your colleague, Mr. Kontozamanis, told me to have this immediate, automated communication procedure in the medical clubs? It's not just Thessaloniki. If these incidents exist, other medical clubs must be given throughout the country. Are there any stores set up? Question. Now nature asks journalists. Did all these procedures become free? And they must be explored on the one hand and on the other, because they concern top issues, which are about medical mistakes, that is, the removal of human life. Are you aware of the incidents reported by the Deputy Minister of Health and, if so, what is it, where are they, in which areas of Greece? Is this only about the Thessaloniki Medical Association or similar incidents detected in other parts of the country? Is there a convincing explanation for the multiannual delay in notifying these decisions to the medical associations in the country with the subsequent disciplinary penalties to be carried out in a timely manner? The families ask who they were! Some people are late, late, neglected, and we don't know if they're neglected because there's a reason - we all understand what kind of reasons - or not! And we should not put an unjust head against anyone. I told Mr. Contozamani. In no case do we blame private-sector doctors. The private sector has diamonds and personal health and the health of many members of our family have left it in their hands. And under no circumstances do I want to complete the tops, charges and so forth. We're talking about those specific incidents! I would also like to make a proposal at this point. It might be possible to investigate the possibility of informing the involved bodies by means of an automated digital procedure for the notification of such judgments in order to avoid delays or any omissions and all stakeholders being informed at the same time and announced in public, so that they do not have the alibi and medical club - his disciplinary board - to say "but the irrevocable appeal decision has never been sent to me". I say this - and I will put it out in the Minutes of the House - for the next ones, who will have the sensitivity of mine and yours, of the whole House or, anyway, of any sensitivities. In 2004, the Civil Protection Authority dealt with this issue and came up with a finding and said that in all cases it investigated, while there were convictions from the criminal courts, disciplinary authorities and, in particular, medical clubs were acquitted of doctors even in blatant cases, as well as that in certain cases it was a syndicate overlaps between doctors and their colleagues, who belong to the members of the medical associations. And I close with the reference of a well-known criminal lawmaker, Nikos Solves from Thessaloniki, who has dealt with the field of medical errors, who said: "In the forty-two years, I am conducting the law and twenty-five, thirty years I have dealt with medical law, I am impressed that many times doctors who have been sentenced and met them many times and I have met them again, having made the same medical mistakes." This thing, as a lawyer, doesn't surprise me, but as a human, it pitys me and our responsibility gives me an unquestionable regret.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u39	Close, Mr. Triantafylides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u40	The responsibility for legislative and executive power is for families not to meet them again and to lose and stay with the complaint that if this oligopoly had not occurred, for the delay in informing the medical associations and for the medical clubs actually to be lifted to the height of their responsibilities, they would withdraw, put aside those few officials who do not deserve to practice the medical profession. Save lives, Minister, Mr. Chiara, save lives! Do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Here, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, Mr Triantafylides, as I have pointed out in my prototype, there are no excuses for this tragic incident. We must be honest with each other, there is no excuse. And what I can tell you is that if there are disciplinary or criminal disciplinary disciplinary disciplinary responsibilities - where they exist - they should be investigated by the competent bodies and attributed. However, as you know, the area of justice is a special area. Inspection shall be carried out by the competent judicial bodies, without allowing the Minister of Justice to order disciplinary or any criminal prosecution. This, of course, requires the constitutional principle of discrimination of powers, which is a fundamental concept of modern democracy and, of course, of a favoured state, even if this was the case in cases of strong social interest, such as that of that State. It is, therefore, the exclusive competence of the judicial authorities that the conditions of the death of the unfortunate fourteen-year-olds are the first ones of the fourteen-year-olds. But in that respect I will tell you what we have done on the occasion of your question and what the thoughts are, because we really need to come to an end. As the Provincial Prosecutor of Thessaloniki informs me under its number 3373-27-2021 document, on the occasion of always your topical question, "with regard to the death of the four-year-old from Thessaloniki, no application has been submitted to the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office, but to the Police Department of Pylaea, which is conducting an own-initiative preliminary inquiry under Article 245(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has not yet been completed and, therefore, the relevant case-law has not yet been submitted to our service". It's the answer of the Prosecutors of Thessaloniki. Furthermore, with regard to the previous convictions of the investigating doctor, unfortunately, the Prosecutors of Thessaloniki under number 5061-27-2021 confirms that the decision by number 2396/2012 of the Thessaloniki Tripartite Court of Appeal was not notified to the Medical Association - that is the truth! - neither, of course, in 2012 nor in 2013, where this decision became irrevocably irrevocable in the light of the relevant decision rejecting the appeal, brought by the Z' Criminal Department of the Ice Bay. However, although the administration of the appeal, as stated in its letter, does not know why the decision was not notified after its irrevocable nature, the decision was now given directly to the medical association.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u43	He doesn't know why? Now? Nine years later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u44	I agree with you. We'll say that right after that. I repeat that I have no opposition to all that you have said. I'm going to say it and say it in public, and you know what the reality is, we all know. This is a tragic negligence, which must not be repeated above all by ensuring that the relevant legislative framework is implemented with greater diligence, so that we do not have such incidents again. That is why I want to assure you that within the framework of which I am allowed by the Constitution I will ask both the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena and the Administration of the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki to investigate all aspects of this case. That is why I will also send them the text of your question, but also the Minutes of today's sitting, the debate, so that they can know and take all the necessary steps. Undoubtedly, there is an issue that is not today - you understand what I mean - it is many years old. And no matter what decisions of medical disciplinary boards could be, it does not mean that final irrevocable judgments of justice should not be notified to medical clubs. We don't have to talk about self-evident things. Too bad, really! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. There's a doctor, the Minister will see. Let's go to the last twin. Since both of you - and Mr Economou and Mr Paulakis - are very difficult - are already the rapporteur of the New Democracy, we have to hand over the Chamber because there is work after - please very little to keep the time. The first question will be discussed under number 971/23-2021 of the Second Cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Immediately the need to permeate the death of Sfi Valyrakis". Mr. Polakis, good morning! You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I was expecting Mr. Chrysochidis to come today, but he probably gave you responsibility for this, because he must be a little ashamed. I made a reference a few days ago from the Step forward of the House, because I think it is a shame on our democracy, a shame on the justice system, a shame on the police authorities, a shame on the port authorities, a former Minister, a former fellow Member of Parliament, a fighter against the junta, a man who honoured Parliament - we were never in the same party, Parliament honoured it, we are patriots, colleagues, his father has baptized me - to have lost the life of 24 January and now enter August, and still to have completed the trial and persecution exercise. Because, it turns out, Shef Valyrakis was not hit by the propeller, he was not in an accident, he was not drowned, he was murdered. Since April 14th - I think - on April 19th there has been a last-name statement of witness saying: "I saw them" - it names them - "two fishermen from next to the village to approach him, to argue, to hit him with the side, the hook, which has the fishcats and to leave". And this testimony he gave it here in Athens to the Humanities Department after intervention and family to Mr Chrysochoidis - to help - because man was afraid to give it to the Port Authority of Eretria or to the police address there. And since then, and while she was notified to the prosecutor, Mr. Procopios in Chalkida, there has been no prosecution at all. And yesterday I learned that they called for a pointless deposit of these two, named by the previous witness, who is not a witness, is another one. I want to say this directly: you have been asked for help, because I know and have the same experience as the Deputy Minister for Health. I will not forget the department in the Greek Police, which ran through the case of stolen gastroscopes and colostrums within a very short period of time. You have skilled executives. So get the case out of there! Get the case out of there, so it's over! Help me with the services that you have to clear up the causes of death! Isn't Mr. Plackotakis leaving? He won't leave the Port? They get it insulting? Six months have the case. What are they doing? Let me not start saying all the things that lead the family and many of us, who are watching the case for reasons of morality and interest, but also honour, what the locals have done in relation to this murder of Sfi Valyraki all this time, because how do you trust a man who, while the current goes east, directs the search west? If they hadn't found two private people on the boat of Valerie, they'd be lost, and then they'd take it and take it to a field, and then somewhere else, and I'd have tampered with evidence. It's too much. We know everything. That is why I would like you to tell me in particular - and I ask you to do so - that the procedure be passed on to you with a political decision. I don't know how it's gonna happen. We cannot go to a turtle rate in the case of the death of a member of the Greek Parliament and a former Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr Polakis. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about the sincere interest in the investigation by the competent authorities of the causes of the death of the former Member and Minister of State Sifi Valyrakis in January 2021. The demand of the society and its own deceased for a thorough investigation of the conditions under which Shefis Valyrakis died is at the same time the task of the state and, in particular, of the judicial and port authorities, to which this responsibility belongs. You are also aware, Mr.Police, that any involvement or delegation of the preliminary investigation at the level of the Greek Police needs an appeal order. We cannot take a case from the perpetrators. In any case, however, having studied the content of this topical question, although I understand your interest in this matter, you will allow me not to adopt some of your findings on the allegations made by the public prosecutors about the actions, but also on the whole of the cooperation of the Ministry of Civil Protection and Shipping and Island Policy in this case. In particular, with regard to the handling of public prosecutors and on the basis of absolute respect for the separation of powers, as foreseen by the legislature, I will not make any specific assessment or opinion. That is what I believe is the duty of all of us in this Chamber, thereby protecting the work of the judiciary and its wider role in democracy. Moreover, where and where questions arise concerning the handling of judges, the disciplinary bodies responsible for assessing and expressing their opinions are hierarchical higher disciplinary bodies of justice. With regard to the cooperation of the two ministries and the relevant departments of the Greek Police and the Port Coast Guard, I would like to stress that since the first moment, which has been requested to support the police services, it has been provided and operated unreservedly throughout the period required. In particular, the life-crime department and personal freedom of the sub-direction of life-crime and property of the Attica Security Directorate provided all possible assistance in the investigation carried out by the competent services of the Port Body. At the same time, support and know-how was requested and provided by other specialised services of the Greek Police, with the aim of pouring light on the causes that led to the death of Sifi Valyrakis. Consequently, any findings - I would say arbitrary - regarding the lack of cooperation between the services of the Greek Police and the Hellenic Coast Guard Port Authority do not correspond to reality. We have responded since the first moment, which we have been asked for, sincerely responded immediately and as long as the framework of the preliminary investigation for anything else we are asked for in the context of compliance with the rules of criminal procedure, are ready to provide any assistance in this direction. To conclude my initial position, I would like to refer to your objections regarding the control of representatives of the Hellenic Coast Guard for the legality of their actions by the competent Home Affairs Agency. In particular, on 10 March 2021, a written application was made by an attorney of the North Port Department of Ertria, Aminina Papatheodorou - Valyraki, his wife, who was deceased in respect of alleged criminal offences by port authorities of the North Port Department of Ertria, which fall under the provisions of Law 2713/1999, as applicable, in conjunction with the provisions of Article 21 of Law 4613/2019. Immediately and particularly the next day, 11-3-2021, this application was made to the supervisor in the department of judicial hearings in Athens, who also ordered a preliminary examination for the investigation of the complainants. A few days later, on 22 March 2021, i.e. before the conclusion of the preliminary examination, additional information was submitted by the applicant, which the Advocate General was aware of, as well as all the correspondence during the preliminary examination period. At the request of the Superintendent of the Prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office, along with the inquiries and material annexed thereto carried out by officials of that department to the Prosecutor's Office of Piraeus. The aim of calibration of the offences provided for in the existing legislation and, inter alia, the criminal offences provided for in Articles 259 and 239 of the Criminal Code concerning offences, breach of duty and abuse of authority by officials of the Hellenic Coast Guard when investigating the conditions of death of Sfi Valyrakis and those mentioned in the application and the memorandum of his wife. In any case, however, I would like to assure you that all the necessary steps are being taken to shed plenty of light on the conditions of the death of Sfi Valyrakis, which I also had to know personally, since for a long time, in the State security of the Ministry, we had close cooperation when he was Minister and in any case it was a matter which we as the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Minister and I are monitoring it with the sensitivity and the attention they need, with all the necessary assistance to the Port House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr. Polakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Economou, your answer didn't cover me. You know what? Because you've also done security as a fighter cop you've evolved, listen to me. When you have an expert forensics report, which tells you that Shefis Valorakis is carrying defensive wounds in his hand - they beat him and went to defend him - that of all the hits he has on him, only one has come from a propeller and the others have come from another body, when you have a situation that immediately does not take the cameras of the stores, which are at the entrance of the port to see which fishermans found, when there are videos accidentally taken from people around there, which show that he is approaching another boat the inflatable of Shifi, when they are there, when much more do you have a witness who tells you "I'm afraid to testify to you, here in Athens, in the Humans Department, and says "I saw the fold and see him beat him," and he didn't have to prosecute directly? Since this statement has been made, it has been four months and will now be called for immortality. Is that how it's done in justice? You know what? No, it's the port, no, it's the justice, no, I don't know what, too. Also, did your service have to check the telephone secret for 60 million connections? A hundred connections he had to check at a depth of three days ago, three days later. You didn't do that. Sixty million connections and lasted three months. Your executives can investigate it well, so we insist that you help more, the Department of Citizen Protection. I'm not underestimating the Port in general. I think that this does not do its job as it should. The prosecutor, Mr. Prokopiou, defines it as an accident, asks some experts no matter what, then excluded, and then not excluded, while having the statement sent to him, asks the two eyewitnesses to testify to you and do not accept them, send them back. This little pussy must be over, and responsibility must be attached, and it must be seen who killed Sheph Valyrakis. It is dishonourable for our democracy that seven months later with such possibilities as we have not come to an end. That is why I invite you to participate. We do not have to watch, Mr Economou, as ministers, we must intervene. And because I have experience too, I know, very well, that nothing goes alone, wants political guidance - and I mean supervision, not guidance in the sense of getting what we want, I mean political supervision - to produce results. And this is what you must end up doing and your conscience must do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the investigation of the causes which led to the death of Shefi Valyrakis, as I said before, continue under the supervision of the competent prosecutor. The preliminary interrogation is in the hands of the Hellenic Coast Guard. There are specific procedural procedures which provide for the development of the entire investigation of the case and from whom it is to be done. If, on the part of the competent prosecutor, the police are to be entrusted with further investigation, we will undoubtedly do our utmost to initiate the proceedings as soon as possible and to carry out an in-depth investigation. In any case, however, as I said before, our cooperation with the Port House is excellent, and assistance, assistance to any aspects of our investigation of the case has been sought, provided immediately and continue to provide. Let me clarify in the report you have made on scans. I would like to tell you that when the scans are carried out, the result is that there will be a lot of tens of thousands of phones available to the investigating authorities and, beyond that, by means of a specific process and experience, an analysis will be carried out in order to end up where the investigation will lead. In this case, assistance from the competent departments of the Greek Police was provided to the officers of the Port Authority since, as you said before, we have the necessary and technically qualified staff that can actually make this assessment of the data. It has also been done, but you realise that, given that the preliminary investigation is under way, I am not allowed to deal with any more specific aspects of this case. This close and lasting cooperation and support should be seen as a given, because this is how modern challenges of national and public security are, interclimateity, cooperation, group spirit. And that is what I would like to assure you that we are serving it. It does not serve anyone personally or politically to challenge the professionalism, which governs the way in which the overwhelming majority are performed, from the point of view of the Port Authority and from the point of view of Greek Police. Furthermore, when objections are raised to the contrary, there are the procedures and instruments which constitute the mechanism of control and accountability and the necessary in-depth investigations. I would also like to point out once again that, in terms of the Internal Affairs Service, we have responded directly to his wife's request as a deceased and the procedures under the supervision of the Chief Prosecutor's Public Prosecutor have been quickly initiated and the entire case-file is in the prosecutor's office, which is essentially responsible for the status of officials of the Port Authority. To conclude, I would like to call on everyone to trust the competent authorities and the public prosecutors, who are handling the case and to refrain from finding that they do not protect the validity, impartiality, role and mission of the legislator for the judiciary and law enforcement authorities. It is a matter of particular interest and I agree with you that there should undoubtedly be an in-depth investigation and, if there are any people who are responsible for finding and sending them quickly to justice in order to account to the competent authorities. We all want answers. We owe it to the family of the deceased. We owe it to the memory of a separate fighter against the junta and a vivid supporter of the struggle for democracy, the former MP and Minister of State Sifi Valyrakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. I want to thank everyone in and out of the Chamber, wish good continuity and good summer and congratulations to Stephano Dusco our Olympian. Holy Mary with you! At this point we will have a short break and then we will be on the agenda for legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the Finance Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic of the Loan Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic and their Annexes’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 July 2021 that the draft law should be discussed at a meeting, a uniform at the outset and on articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a cycle of priority, which will include one speaker from each Parliamentary Group and one 12-member circle of speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. A teleconference service or physically present is also proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio as above. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u55	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the pandemic began, not only the biological and mental resistance of people was tested, economic systems were tested, of course, they were tested above all health systems, behaviours were tested and policy competences emerged. I do not hide from you that the European Union of my financial crisis has disappointed me enough at the beginning: lack of organisation, delay of decision-making, mistaken assessments and excessively great punishment reasonable to those who had violated the Maastricht Treaty. Correction of sinners, and even generously attempting to unite Europe's nations and peoples, and this is done in the best and perhaps most unexpected way in its almost seventy-year history. I would remind you that since March 2020, Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has speeded up with eight more counterparts asking for a new system of common European borrowing to be set up in order to deal with the financial consequences of the pandemic and build the next day on solid foundations. The initiative, as it was expected for those who know how to recognise the zeros from a distance, was swept away by zeros in our country and the rule of law was not too late. The initiative was praised in practice, after only four months later, last July, a decision was taken on the Recovery Plan which in our country was entitled "Greece 2.0". Finally, the European Union has made the correction of sinners to which I referred earlier and has drawn up a brave programme for strengthening the economies of its countries. In this, not randomly, but after a tough and effective negotiation, because it is not enough to be tough, it must also be effective, our country has taken the lead, the largest proportionate package of aid from any other country of the European Union. We are the first to testify in time - record the new programme. We are the first, together with the Spaniards, to take credit for the best recovery programme in Europe when the largest country in the Union was sewing back its plan to reprocessing and we are the first to raise capital so quickly and I want to believe so effectively. Two conventions have to be ratified with the European Commission to move forward, and these are the ones that the Government brings to plenary today calling for the approval of the parliamentary delegation. I will only mention a few elements. Our country will receive 20% of GDP in aid from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which is the largest share of GDP throughout Europe. In absolute numbers, as I have already said, 30.5 billion euros, which, together with the private sector's contribution, are expected to mobilise resources, which will total EUR 57 billion. These resources now come to add EUR 26.2 billion through the new NSRP 2021-2027 approved yesterday for Greece, an approval that seals not only the speed at which the current government is moving, but mainly the severity of the plans of its staff, as Greece is the first member of an approved NSRP partnership agreement for the 2021-2027 programme, as the Commissioner for Cohesion and Reform said yesterday. Seventy-seven billion is the total of the two programmes. With today's ratification in plenary of the two conventions, we are immediately awaiting an advance inflow, which is estimated at 13% on the total amount, corresponding to around EUR 4 billion. The draft law shall consist of three basic articles setting out the rights and obligations of the parties, as well as the terms and conditions applicable to the financial contribution granted, with a view to meeting the milestones and objectives of reforms and investments satisfactorily. Our national plan puts the country in a strong growth track, with the immediate aim of improving the low performance shown by our economy in significant indicators of performance. More specifically, the level of investment in the last decade has been extremely low, resulting in a significant investment gap of EUR 162 billion. Investments in our country as a percentage of GDP amounted to about half the average of investment in the rest of Europe. Introverted: Greece was the 23rd country in the European Union for exports and imports as a percentage of GDP in 2019. Low productivity: it was 22nd in Europe in labour productivity in 2017. Low environmental performance: 22nd in Europe in the Cyclic Material Management Index in 2017. These problems, which have accumulated rather than solved previous governance, are called upon to deal with and ensure that the money, which will invade our country, is used in the best way possible, by promoting appropriate private and public investment and reforms. Our approach is that loans should be directed towards financing long-term viable private sector investment rather than to take advantage of inefficient uses, which would only bring about a temporary stimulus to the economy, as has happened repeatedly in the past. As far as grants and public investment are concerned, we are rapidly moving towards the construction of major projects such as the North Axis of Crete, the largest motorway in Europe and the completion of the E65. The interesting thing here is that Greece is the only country in Europe that has achieved funding for roads in this programme - no one else, despite the fact that many - almost 1 billion of these important projects - have been requested. The electricity and digital interconnection of our islands is estimated at 300 billion in response to the objections of the Antipolitics that it is supposedly not anticipated to strengthen the island policy. A hundred million will be allocated for substituting and upgrading a electricity distribution network in order to protect against extreme weather phenomena and upgrade the network to forest areas to prevent fires. Approximately 2 billion for the new EQUIPMENT programme for households, businesses and the public sector. Benefits for households and small and medium-sized enterprises and above all environmental policy, with projects and efficiency. Half a billion will be available for strategic urban regenerations that significantly improve the quality of life in the city, such as the regeneration of the coastal front from Piraeus to Voula, the regeneration of Tatoi estate and many other smaller ones. Two hundred and twenty million euros will be provided to transform urban transport into electric motors, resulting in savings of resources and energy savings and support for environmental action in practice. The plan includes the installation of a network of mailers everywhere, electric urban buses and electric cabs. Two hundred and twenty-four million will be allocated for the reafforestation of a hundred sixty-five thousand acres throughout Greece, 155 million for the purchase and modernisation of aeroplanes and fire-fighting helicopters. Seven Canadair aircraft are being modernised, two Super Puma helicopters, three BK-117 helicopters. We buy fifteen new amphibious aircraft for fire-fighting interventions in island areas. EUR 115 million is given for the purchase of fire extinguishers and other vehicles for local authorities, EUR 242 million for the restoration of land in the old lignite mines in western Macedonia about sixty thousand hectares to be attributed to a farm and other uses. And this is purely environmental interference, as is so many others I have mentioned. The agricultural sector will go EUR 600 million. More than EUR 2 billion will be allocated for employment policies. It is estimated that two thousand new jobs will be created because of these programmes. 565m euros will be allocated to digital transformation. The digitisation that is progressing rapidly and only anyone who is malicious does not understand it, is extended by digitisation to the structures of justice, the towns, the Stock Exchange, the EFKA and elsewhere. We have a digital skills enhancement program, measurable digital transformation of JEPs, 5G on the national network, on the motorways. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a golden opportunity to transform the country's productive model into new conditions worldwide. We are presented with a golden opportunity to change, and indeed, speedily in relation to the past, to change the future of our children, to change the future of our country. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of the draft law, as the majority will do in this Chamber. Whoever, after that, is not convinced that the EUR 57 billion of the Recovery Fund is changing our lives, will not be persuaded when it travels with an electric vehicle on the new integrated E65 motorway and at the same time, at a speed of 5G, will be linked by its mobile phone to an electronic JEP, requesting the issue of the certificate, approving a transfer operation with a digital signature or applying for an electronic pension to its insurance body. Not all of this will be in the imagination, but in fact, it's already started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u57	And we thank Mr Rusopulus. The SYRIZA rapporteur now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, my colleague, Mr Alexandros Haritsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I must point out that, although my fellow country, Messinio, the majority rapporteur, New Democracy, has proved to be extremely populous in both the committee and today, who has not used up the time available to him. Rather, he didn't have much to say about the New Democracy's proposal on the Recovery Fund. But I think, ladies and gentlemen, that today's debate is extremely important, is extremely critical, because it condenses precisely the big question of our time: will we turn the unprecedented pandemic experience into a decisive step forward for a new social contract or turn the clock of time backwards, return to the destructive choices of the past and wait patiently for the next great test? The Recovery Fund is the product of a historical change. The adventure of pandemic, an adventure that has not yet finished, has shaken the old doctrines and absolute truths of neoliberal hegemony. There is currently a very productive debate in the world and a similar political debate on the next day. Through this conflict, in a contradictory way, the rapid reappearance of public planning, social organisation, state intervention in the economy is apparent. Unfortunately - because, in fact, this is an accident for the country - the current government does not seem to employ these tectonic shifts. I do not think it makes any sense for the officials of the New Democracy Government to deny it. As soon as the relevant Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Skylakakis, told the committee yesterday that only if a country goes crazy, then it allows budgetary deficits. It's an interesting point of view. I imagine, however, the loneliness of the Minister, who sees, for example, the American President Biden trying actively to compensate for the consequences of the pandemic with an unprecedented package of support for society and the regeneration of the economy. The result? Already, as has just been announced, the US GDP has returned to the pre-university level. I think even more of the embarrassment of the extreme neoliberal government when they realise that even what we are discussing today, the Recovery Fund, is precisely the result of this madness, it is assumed, Europe will change its way, to face the crisis, not with tough austerity policies, as it has unfortunately done in the past - and we, our country, Greece, paid for this very painfully - but with a programme for reconciling the burdens of budgetary expansion. Apparently, of course, no one's gone crazy. Societies and some political leaderships realise that we cannot continue on tracks of strict fiscal austerity, indifference to inequalities, the destruction of the public health system and the environment. This is the Recovery Fund, an indication of the times that change. SYRIZA in our country and the Left as a whole in Europe was that political force that put this agenda in the difficult first days of the pan-European crisis, more than a decade ago. Because, in our view, this should be the essence of the common European project, if you wish, a permanent mechanism for intervention and planning to promote fair and balanced development, for the fight against inequalities, for the strengthening of public services and the defence of public goods. Then, of course, political correlation did not even allow such policies to be discussed. Today it took the strong shock of the pandemic to see, after years, the relaxation of austerity policies, the return to the concept of planning, the search for a new agreement that will allow a new start for each country separately and for the European Union as a whole. We are not, of course, naive. We know this battle is lasting. It's continuing. The conservative females of the New Democracy are being held in Europe for a return to the old, but this awareness does not rescind the gentleman. We have a historic opportunity ahead of us. The Recovery Fund can and should be the first decisive step towards addressing the consequences of the pandemic and the tool for the productive reconstruction of the country on new bases. This historic opportunity by the New Democracy Government, unfortunately, is being wasted. Instead of synchronising with the global debate I have described, the new possibilities opened up around a new social contract, the government insists on outdated dogmas. We have the sad privilege of a government that cynically operates the Recovery Fund in absentia and against society. Desert, why would he proceed without talking to anyone? Chambers, social partners, universities and research community, self-government, environmental organisations, all except any design.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u59	House!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u60	I'm coming to this, Euclid. Don't rush! However, I was freed from the national delegation, because you have just legislated with last minute amendments - even yesterday we saw another one - because you have brought the ratification of contracts under fast track procedures in these last days of July, because you have not dared to do so, to bring the government proposal to Parliament before it is sent to Brussels, as I have told you in committee, as our neighbour Italy has done. The appointed Mr Draghi has proved far more consistent with his democratic commitments than the elected Mr Mitsotakis. And that is not a secondary issue. Social participation is a matter of democracy. And to have a comparison measure, what have we done? We, in 2018, developed a holistic development plan, the National Development Strategy, as a result of the work that took place at development conferences that we organised in all thirteen regions of the country, with the participation of productive actors, with the participation of self-government, with the participation of civil society. This national development strategy, of course, has chosen you from the first day, instead of taking advantage of it, to throw it into the canopy. This is a conscious choice as a whole. You chose to degrade the conversation around the Recovery Fund, not to show the obvious, that for you the Recovery Fund is a first-class opportunity to return to the worst practices in our recent history. Those practices that led the country to the rocks of bankruptcy and threaten to lead it again to the vortex of insecurity. But society has moved forward. It requires transparency and accountability and I return, Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance, since I have tabled the relevant proposal to you two days ago in committee. Will you accept our proposal to set up a intergroup parliamentary monitoring committee to implement the Recovery Fund, or will you continue to operate in secret? But I said before that, not only do you work in absentia, but against society too. Why else would anyone explain that you all over Europe made the connection between the Recovery Fund and the opposition prerequisites? We have seen it very recently, unfortunately, at work. We took the hard Commission out of the door in 2018, after a huge effort and painful sacrifices by the Greek people, to bring it back now from the window and from yourself, without asking for this from Europe. The Mitsotakis Government, unfortunately, perceives the Recovery Fund as a fund of great interest. That's what everyone has figured out. I submitted the relevant information to the committee just the day before yesterday. Public opinion surveys, the six-month short-term survey of the economic analysis management of the National Bank of Greece. Keep one clue if you want. Only 14% of small and medium-sized enterprises are aware of the Greek plan for the Recovery Fund. To say this quite simply, Greek society is afraid that the Recovery Fund in the hands of the current government means that money will go to money, which is, of course, morally unacceptable and socially unfair. It has, however, been shown in practice to be extremely counterproductive. This unsuccessful recipe of internal devaluation and the decline in our country's production base has led us to the brink of bankruptcy. The government, however, seems not to learn from its mistakes, rather than I would say, operates like any closed and ideological system and repeats it monotonously, no matter what the reality is. Ladies and gentlemen, the Recovery Fund should be the starting point for a very substantial debate. For the sign that the critical pillars of the programme will actually have. For growth itself. Because, of course, following such an unprecedented crisis, which the whole planet is experiencing with pandemic, there will be nominal growth. But who will it be? How sustainable and sustainable will it be? Will it address the multi-level inequalities of Greek society? Income, environmental, regional, intergenerational, racial. Incidentally, as I spoke about inequality, I should point out that according to ELSTAT’s official figures, the indicators concerning economic inequality, the Gini factor and the S80/S20 income distribution ratio have been continuously improving, i.e. a downward trend from 2015 to 2019, reaching the pre-crisis levels. In 2020, however, for your days, that is to say, there is a reversal of this trend, as inequality indicators show little increase, but significant. Is that something you're worried about? Because I haven't heard from your government about inequality. And I will then submit to the minutes and the relevant information from ELSTAT. How, then, will we use the Recovery Fund to respond to these challenges? Will we, for example, proceed to the green transition by promoting only specific projects of large groups, or will we implement a decentralised model of energy production, such as with the energy communities established by the SYRIZA government? Will we use digitisation as an opportunity to upgrade the country's total production potential, or will this digitisation take place even more to open the lane, between large groups and small and medium-sized enterprises, as we have, unfortunately, already seen happening within the pandemic? Are we going to implement critical infrastructures in the primary sector, for example, in terms of public interest, or will this only be done with private projects serving other purposes and do they not ensure that the interests of Greek farmers are served? Are we going to take advantage of this great opportunity to upgrade the know-how of domestic enterprises to increase the production of domestic value added, or will the Retrieving Fund become a mechanism for the escalation of imports and degradation of domestic production? In short, will we work for inclusive growth involving the many, or will we return to the failed models of the past with growth for a few and good ones? Will the Retrieving Fund become a lever for social and economic reconstruction or a tool for strengthening the strengths? Unfortunately, the methodology, but above all the content of your proposal, makes us not trust in it. We cannot have any confidence in a government that, as a development model, envisions the compelling of labour costs, the graceful provisions in major business interests, the promotion of fragmented major projects, the lending of its strong friends and the exclusion from funding all the others. We have no confidence in a government that does not discuss and hears no one, who is arrogantly and arrogantly arrogant, who considers the parliamentary debate to be an unnecessary suffering. We have no confidence in a government that hides behind the Recovery Fund to do what? Promote its anti-social, anti-reform agenda. However, we have unlimited confidence in the possibilities of Greek society, and that is why we will provide a daily battle for the transformation of the Recovery Fund into a mechanism for promoting social policies and development planning that will leave behind the heavy rust of the past behind. And we're not alone in this effort. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u61	You'll have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] See what happens in other countries of Europe, while we are talking here. Some examples of the programmes from other Member States that we have studied in this period. Portugal will finance social policies, for social housing, for example, while another part of the funding will be directed to small and medium-sized enterprises in areas of strategic importance. Slovenia, housing fund and an extensive environmental protection programme. EC internal market, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, monetary union, monetary union, monetary union, monetary union, monetary union France, regional and local development programme through local authorities. Here, unfortunately, none of this. Where is the regional allocation of resources? What amount has been planned for each region and on which criteria this allocation has been made if such allocations have been made? Where is the plan to support small and medium-sized enterprises? We have said this repeatedly because you do not take advantage of the development bank and you are passing almost all of the loans through the systemic banks in which, according to the official figures of the Bank of Greece, there are only twenty-five thousand of the eight hundred thousand Greek companies. Why not use micro-credits to support small and micro-enterprises through the Recovery Fund that is a brave programme for research and innovation? Otherwise, how are we talking about changing the production model, how are we talking about production of value-added products and services, how are we talking about improving the country's production position in international division? I would remind you, Mr President, that the SYRIZA government has managed to increase spending on research and development every year, for the first time, to 2.3 billion in 2019. Do you know how much the government's plan for the Recovery Fund provides for? It provides 80,000,000 to 90,000,000 euros a year, maximum. I will also submit the evidence to the Minutes. Where is the plan to complement all the financial possibilities that the country will have in the coming years, the Recovery Fund, the new ESDP, the new CFP, the European Fee for 55 programme to tackle the climate crisis? Incidentally, because we are not making a isotopic opposition, as we accepted from you when we were in the government, I would like to say that the adoption of the new ESDP by the Commission is important. I am pleased that the enormous effort we have made with the NRP 2014-2020 to make use of European funds, to have our country for three consecutive years first in Europe in the exploitation of the relevant resources, continues and bears fruit. Ladies and gentlemen, growth is not neutral for us, nor is it, of course, exhausted in a simple list of projects. It requires a strategic plan and integrated public policies, with clear directions, goals and priorities. Because for us development means combating inequalities. Development means strengthening the social state. Development means broadening the production base. Development means environmentally sustainable and workable fair investments. In this direction, we must make use of all the resources we have in our hands. We therefore call for an emphatic 'yes' to the Recovery Fund as a historic opportunity for social reconstruction and economic reconstruction. But we are talking about a resounding 'no' in the efforts of the New Democracy to transform the Recovery Fund into a mechanism for promoting certain interests. Today, then, we will be present to propose and control tomorrow, as the country's next progressive government, we will redirect and make full use of these funds, not to serve the appetites of certain interests, but to serve the vital demand of the Greek society for fair and sustainable development. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u63	And we thank Mr. Haritsi. Mr. Georgios Kamines has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronary epidemic has brought new realities to the fore. It has demonstrated that the institutional dimension of the collective, that is to say, the state and its public policies, especially in the field of health and the economy, are not issues of the political string. That's why we're discussing the bill. Because it is the European Union and the Greek state which offer solutions and for which we are discussing here today. Obviously, our country, especially at the moment after a decade of huge economic impairment that reaches 29% of GDP, does not have the luxury of losing a single euro. But precisely this unprecedented loss, even twice as much as the loss of civil war, obliges us no longer to function on the same terms as those that led us to the crisis. The title "Greece 2.0" for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan does not only have the intended reading by the Government of a next Greece, namely. Because the next Greece cannot be blocked, there cannot be without a plan. Despite the European requirements for consultation with the productive and institutional bodies, the world of entrepreneurship and work, the political forces and civil society, the government chose to bring it shortly before the House, at a meeting of just a few hours in committee and in plenary, with a 50-page consultation to finally come to Parliament and to reveal the complete eighty-eight-page plan to which it agreed with the European Commission. It is a diligently failed consultation. Just forty - five comments on the site, while, for example, in successful consultations, such as for pets, the comments had exceeded twenty - eight thousand and the conspiracy of fourteen thousand. The Council's Implementing Decision states that a process has been followed for consultation with all the social partners, self-government bodies and even youth organisations. I would like, with great interest, to hear their remarks and what and how many of them have been incorporated into your proposal. But if we do not understand that the problem in the country was not the resources that came, but the way they have been exploited, perhaps the 'Marshall Plan' and the creation of post-war jacks, then we express in the clearest way not only a few and privileged Greeks, a Greece of enclosed economic and political institutions with privileged access to power centres only for some, but a Greece that went bankrupt and that will go precisely for these reasons in an increasingly competitive international environment. It is declaring that this approach to a concept of conservativeism which is self-sufficient recognizes itself only privileges and no obligation. Is it a question of democracy and social justice only the involvement of the many? Not just that. It is primarily a prerequisite for a serious analysis of the productive position of the Greek economy in world production of goods and services and changes in our production model, a condition that can only be fulfilled by the participation of many. The main lack of policy on a targeted strategy, however, is the lack of national added value in the project entirely. What leaves this project as an added value the next day in the country and in its productive web? Our country, on the basis of the experience of using resources from the Structural Funds, knows that much of the money comes back through the purchase of goods and services in the countries of the European North. The reversal of this trend should be at the core of the national plan. On the contrary, the Government considers it inevitable. We should have learned from the model of previous years that we are lending to import and consume without productive investments that leave us added value. What, too, is the return on these investments in terms of decentralisation and regional justice? What is the performance in terms of reducing inequalities? Will the plan or tool for serving the few and strong ones be a tool of social justice? I would remind you of the huge social impact that had on financial instruments from previous decades which supported the region and created a new middle-class in the country that did not exist until the 1980s. It is this middle-class collapse, the collapse of which in recent years has had a multiple impact on the economy, on the institutions, on our policy, on our country's position in Europe and on the world. We, as our rapporteur rightly pointed out in committee, do indeed find the four pillars of strategic direction as described in the draft. What we disagree with is the processing nature of the project and the exclusion of many. Because what is contained in the plan is essentially about large groups of internal and external to communications and technology, logistics, energy, industry and construction. It is obvious that not everyone will benefit, as the government likes to support. It is obvious that the project concerns its minimum privileged interlocutors. How else can the government explain to the banks that the promotion of investment projects and the disbursement of loans should be entrusted to the banks themselves? At the time the credit system managed, as the Bank of Greece's report states, the huge liquidity of more than 40 billion available by the European Central Bank to direct it to only a few businesses, which were largely unnecessarily unnecessarily needed, thus increasing the business deposits, but also a large part of the liquidity to have been inactivated, parked the Bank of Greece's banking system, while only thirty thousand companies have access to banking from the eight hundred thousand active business ABM or just 3,61%, is therefore a government's choice to support the few and large and to eliminate the many, small and medium-sized companies? I must point out that, in the eighty-eighth pages of the project, there are nothing more than minimal nominal references to small and medium-sized enterprises, which deal basically with applications for electronic payments and digital advertising and energy-efficiency projects for renovation, although small and medium-sized enterprises constitute 96.5% of the business and 64% of the total value produced. What are we going to do with them? We're leaving them behind? We're gonna leave them in their luck? Does this mean a change in the country's productive model? Just 1.8 billion for health, education and infrastructure, that is, the total amount, and that despite the needs and opportunities of the current crisis. And, of course, there is little provision for decent work, for wage equality between the sexes, for safety at the workplace and so on. It is clear that this plan does not only agree on a procedure, but also on a substance. Yes, we want money to come to Greece and we support the last euro to come. After all, our resignation through its historic journey has linked its name to Europe's long-term successes in this matter either the Structural Funds, the NSRF or others with mistakes, with weaknesses, with failures, but with a lot of work and courage in the difficults. To those who do not understand our reservations today, to those who always say the convenient 'no' or seek white checks, to those who are now talking about a position of responsibility, we should recall that it was New Democracy, also among those who voted 'no' in the only solution, as proved, to save the country in 2010-2012. That's the story. Some may not like it, but this has been proven. Today, contrary to that attitude, we are here with positions, with fertile criticism, supporting the need for the country and the last euro, but disagreeing with the plan you are proposing and the process that has been ahead of us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u65	And we thank Mr. Kamine. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolis Syntakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. In an unacceptable way on the last day of the Parliament's operation in the middle of a summer revolution, the government introduces the two contracts of the Recovery Fund, namely the new Memorandum, a super Memorandum for the people, a manna from heaven for capital. It has now been established as a permanent method, convenient for the New Democracy Government, as SYRIZA did, to introduce anti-grass bills and memoirs in time dead, that is to say, in order to avoid dynamic reactions from the people. But the guards have knowledge. In any case, it does not hide that this project is another memorandum to be added to the previous three, literally marking the constant extermination of the people by 2060, with new tough measures to be added to everything that has already been legislated and in place in full. Not only does the JRC vote against the contract, but it denounces you for the further deception of the people by handing it with new suffering. It turns out, despite the trade in hope and the growing of fraudulent expectations, that this project with great state intervention cannot change the country for the benefit of the people. The notorious state interference is not by definition philosophical. I would say that she is more vulgar because she bets on the popular consensus, but also more reactionary because with warm state money, "strong" money from the peoples of Europe, they will fill the chests of business groups to make their investments, while charging the burdens of paying their own sweats to new alternative measures. SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Mer25 and the Greek Solution that present as the greatest opportunity the European Union's Recovery Fund as a neutral development tool, highlighting the theory of the social contract, a resurrected people's caging soup and confusing and illusions, in order to resurrect the lost prestige of the European Union. They also agree on the cause of the crisis that I have learned from the pandemic. They reproduce the newly founding fact that we are all supposed to be on the same boat, resurrecting the narrative of national unity, calling on the people together to put their backs on the rescue of businesses, once again sacrificing the satisfaction of their own needs on the altar of capitalist profit. New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL return to the site of the Memorandum of Crime attempting to regain the people, throw ashes in their eyes. To justify their agreement, they hide where this money will be found, the more than 750 billion at European Union level, the 32 billion for our country since there are no 'leaf trees', as it sounds. The new gifts with your magical friends presuppose new European six months, new control and surveillance mechanisms for whether the funds are directed at reforms that promote competitiveness, that is to say, ensure the profitability of business groups, that is, memorandums to the nth. The government’s account that he supposedly managed to avoid new memos and won reforms is being rejected. The Commission itself says that it will examine the programmes submitted by each Member State and the European Council will vote on the relevant proposals. In the implementation phase, the Commission will determine whether the conditions for disbursement are met, whether this money is directed towards projects which have been pre-selected with the Economic and Financial Committee to give the green light to assess whether the commitments are complied with. As the conventions under discussion say, if the Union's financial interests are tightened up, namely the capitalists of Europe to be precise, and if Greece fails to fulfil its obligations, that is, the burdens it will impose on the people who will never be - experience and life itself has shown it - that is, if the committee does not comply with the loan contract, it may suspend or cancel payment of undisbursed sums, and with a penalty for the repayment of the money. As your partners say: 'Thaba meal does not exist in the European Union' or to use the phrase of the Prime Minister: 'There is no free dinner'. Right, because in order to feed the profitability of capital, our people have already paid too much and are now being called upon to pay for the broken ones again. Only now with his struggle and already having the experience of previous years, the previous capitalist crisis, he must say he will not pay again the brokens of this new capitalist crisis. The New Democracy is fighting with SYRIZA for the amount of the package for Greece, or the fight runs out in a false discussion about where this money will go. This is a very big lie, a holocaust. The funds are systemic, come with specific specifications and will go as loans, facilities, direct subsidies and infrastructure to guarantee profitable investments of business groups in the green and digital sectors of the economy. It is at this point that the policies of the New Democracy meet with those of the SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Mera25, with their agreement with the green and digital transition. That is why they are fighting, in order to hide the conditions under which this package is given, but also who will eventually fruit it, in order to hide the most important thing, that the European Union remains deeply hostile to people's interests, such as hostile to the people, are your own parties. The new package for which you are all evicted, as you say 'the largest ever given', is neither free nor free of credit nor unscrupulous. It is a new loop on the neck of the people, who will be invited to pay them both by increasing taxation and by reducing social costs. These funds will not go to any new ICUs, hospitals, the recruitment of doctors and nurses, nor to schools, rooms and teachers to open schools and schools with all the necessary protection measures, nor to public transport, so that workers do not go like sardines, nor to anti-military, anti-nuclear and earthquake planning in the country, nor to shield areas already affected by floods, earthquakes or fires, nor to protect and enhance the income of self-employed free professionals, nor to poor farmers, nor to increase wages and pensions. Even what you mentioned about the North Road of Crete, you might say half the truth, but the fact that by state money construction companies are having a party, with the Cretan people, it's time to put their hand in the toll pocket, as in the other parts of the country, that's why you're not talking about it. The government plan is in line with the European Union's priorities and the requirements of the local capital, as demonstrated by its four priorities, namely green growth, digital actions, employment and skills, private investment and the transformation of the economy as well as the allocation of the total of 32 billion euros for the Greek economy. These objectives are also quantified and more than 60% of the funds will be compulsory for green and digital business. Who does not remember the tough negotiations that took place between the North and the South and the compromise which they have reached, a compromise not between the peoples - these will be the victims of the robbery - but between the bourgeois ranks of the states of Europe. The fight between them concerned which groups and which lobby will be fruitful of the European Union's financial packages. None of these states camps care about the interests of the peoples or their own peoples. So those who had made their flags the alliance of the countries of the South, such as SYRIZA and continue to say so, are disguised and multiplely exposed. A sample so far, for 2021 alone, of the prerequisites for the disbursement of money, is: The working monstrosity for the settlement of working time and the control of the trade union movement by the state and the employer, which has already been completed with SYRIZA, to vote for half the articles of the bill, that is, a good back. The new Auxiliary Insurance Fund, the bill that is under way and discussed in the House, again in the middle of a summer race, which is an optimal European capitalist practice gaming the money of the insured. The educational monastery, which was just passed by the House in the summer, with closed schools, so as not to react to students, parents, teachers. Of course, it is a long way from the list of anti-grassroots measures provided for in the government's national recovery and resilience plan, based on the Pissaridis project, which are a precondition for disbursements: Reform of the labour market, i.e. labour-induced measures in business groups with training programmes. Reform of vocational education and apprenticeship systems. New tax exemptions and privileges for business groups with guaranteed profitability, tax overcompensation of investments, special aid for attracting embedded investments. However, in the question of what the people have to expect, there is no one answering or rather trying to invest in this convention with a philosophical profile. One thing is certain, the people have nothing to expect of this plan. Because this plan provides for green raisins, expensive current from renewable energy sources that will increase further energy poverty, with greedy green products - from cars to homes - a digital urban state even more effective in implementing anti-grass policy quickly, cutting costs, collecting up to the last five from professional and popular households, opening roads to capital by undermining other people's needs. This plan provides for new burdens on employees and self-employed persons, at the same time as for small professionals and workers the debts of the pandemic period will be transferred to the full for later, so that the large business groups will also enjoy new tax exemptions and privileges. It also provides for new auction and extortion dolphins to get out of the jungle so that the banking system can be redeemed and exempted from the red loans accumulated by the previous rounds of capitalist development, and so that the business groups can obtain new fresh money and loans. The wishes for the creation of permanent and quality jobs are obviously a bad joke. The forecasts for a hundred thousand to two hundred thousand jobs over six years with the 60 billion investment programme, i.e. just one job for every 300,000 euros, are at least a mockery but also a precarious one, since a lot of the funds are concerned with the purchase of expensive equipment, such as those for renewable energy sources. Of course, whatever jobs are created, they will only cover a small part of the unemployment that the new crisis will further increase the next day. Even though the sum of billions with all kinds of aid will in principle be temporary flexible jobs until the investment is completed, particularly in sectors of high added value, innovation and so on. In any case, capital growth and profitability require cheap labour force. That is why the next day's planning not just cancels the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, but will continue on the same path by dismantling wages, by abolishing collective labour contracts, by generalising the flexible forms of employment, by completing the crime against social security. This is why on the list of government plans it is about ensuring even cheaper and flexible labour with no rights to business groups. Wherever we catch it, then, the permanent objective of the European Union, the ruling order and all urban parties for the recovery of profits is on the reverse of modern social needs. With its organized action, the people can put the real question 'growth for whom?' and give an answer on the basis of its own priorities, the struggle for a development path that will have its own needs and not the profits of the few. No expectation can be made for the people of this project, that is, the project of capital. The so-called new production model, which will be competitive and extroverted, is the model that all governments have served in previous years. The clay feet of this model broke the pandemic period. It was confirmed that not only do they not relieve the capitalist economy of the contradictions found in its DNA, not only do they not lead to sustainable growth, but they increase its deadlocks rapidly lead to new, deeper capitalist crises that are loaded inside the people themselves. The main one: they can never transform the economy, the capitalist economy into a fair and for all, as the government and other parties claim. That is why workers need to be in a position of battle, to repulse, to clash with the European Union's strategy, so that they do not pay again for the broken crisis. Already, on the pretext of pandemic, the experience of how the government made it a pretext, with bars of legislative acts, dozens of bills, extraordinary joint ministerial decisions and circulars has led to thousands of employees in tourism - food, factories, construction and trade in unemployment and rotating work, the abolition of sectoral collective agreements, fines on crustaceans, restrictions on trade union freedoms and demonstrations. All of these, therefore, must immediately be in a combat position. There is no room for other delusions. They must not be trapped once again in waiting for salvation from the billions of the European Union or in choosing the most competent manager to exploit them between New Democracy and SYRIZA. They can and must mark their real opponent, namely the ruling order, to collide with the European Union, with capital. The JRC invites them to touch their hopes in the labor struggle and counter-attack to counteract these new measures so that they do not pay again for the broken-up of the new capitalist crisis. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u67	And we thank Mr. Synergy. The floor is now, after the Step, the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start from the fact that the first thing we mentioned in the debate on "Greece 2.0" was that we should see the funds from the Reconstruction Fund in conjunction with those from the next NRP, secondly with the Common Agricultural Policy, since that includes investment. Obviously, we have to look at all these funds together, because otherwise we won't achieve anything. On the contrary, we will spend more money and we will be charged even more, and only the well-known scientists, the domestic state-owned elite and especially the national contractors who have now expanded their activities to the energy 'green' projects. In the one and only now committee on the two conventions of the Reconstruction Fund, we have said that the entry into force of the Convention has been defined since the signing of the Convention and the Commission has been notified that the legal procedures of the Member State have been completed, so that is obviously the reason for the urgent procedure - the really paradoxical urgency - before the House is closed. Perhaps, furthermore, because the government has promised some money, such as 'TERNA' for the scandalous E65. We would remind you here that the contract for the EUR 490 million in the north has already been passed by Parliament, and it is included in the approved projects of EUR 1.4 billion from the advance payment of the Recovery Fund, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It seems, therefore, that history repeats itself on the criterion that from the EUR 20.4 billion of the NRP 2007-2013 were driven to constructions of EUR 12.9 billion, while from these EUR 9.5 billion to the three major national contractors at that time. In this respect, the Undersecretary, Mr. Skylakakis, confirmed to us, in fact, by saying that within a week of the project's mission all the comments were exchanged last Monday, the convention was signed by the government and with great effort it was able to obtain the signature of the Commissioners. Obviously, he did not even have the time to read the two conventions with their massive annexes, reminding us of Mr Chrysochide in his memorial days, as we also noted in the debate where he did not even know the existence of the interest rate of late.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Villard, please withdraw what you said, because it's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u70	It's not a mistake, Mr. Dogfish, I asked you and you didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u71	You have no idea what I've read and what I've never read!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u72	Okay, well, it's nothing special. We have also seen it from his answer to the questions that we have asked him, where he has started - I will say exactly - by saying that he will give us a clarification covering the whole of them. Its clarification was not exactly what you said: 'These conventions do not concern a country, they concern all the countries with a recovery plan, and they are based on a regulation and standard financing practices of the European Commission. It is not a contract specifically involving Greece. Therefore, there is no discussion about what the interest rate is. All this is planned and common to everyone. It is rather unnecessary to have the debate as if it were a convention specifically for Greece." That's exactly what you said. We have therefore asked ourselves why the conventions were tabled for discussion, if we really cannot change anything at all, despite the fact that they have enough problems, many of which we have mentioned and have remained unanswered. On the other hand, can the Secretary-General really assure us that these conventions were presented to us in Germany in summary procedures, that is, as well as under the conditions laid down by the European Union in terms of the payment of sums and at an unknown rate? On the other hand, Germany will obviously not demand that the loans be disbursed, of course, contrary to the countries of the European South which have different potential, different economic possibilities and different political power compared to the bankrupt Greece. However, the Secretary-General's answer to Mr Kastanidis's questions was that the Council stated that the programme for the financing of the Recovery Fund is part of the system of enhanced supervision of our country and of the institutions, that is to say, in Memorandum No 4, and in the troika under their new name. According to the State Secretary, however, the European Commission has explicitly assured the Government that there will be no involvement of the institutions in the area of the Recovery Fund, so the Council is obviously wrong. It is hard to believe, of course, unless the Secretary-General actually has a written commitment from the Commission, which will further confirm that no consideration will be sought, such as the various austerity measures imposed on us over the last eleven years. In addition, we would like to ask him whether it is compulsory to vote on both contracts together directly or indirectly, on the first of the subsidies and on the second of the loans, especially as regards Greece, that if Greece can only get grants and not loans, reminding him of the fact that the Prime Minister had previously said - if we are not mistaken - that he will try not to make use of the loans. Is that no longer the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u73	That's not true. He's never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u74	Whatever. Our next question relates to Article 10 of the Loan Convention, which states that debts from this Convention can be secured at every burden on our country's assets or income, namely that guarantees and commitments are required. Is that true? If so, then what guarantees will be given and what commitments will we make? Should the Greeks not know if we interpreted Article 10 correctly? Continuing, the total amount to be recovered from the Reconstruction Fund is expected to reach 30.4 billion euros, of which 17.7 billion subsidies and 12.7 billion loans, according to the final amounts of this Convention. In relation to the leverage from the private sector that the government calculates at EUR 27 billion, so that the final amount reaches 57 billion, we said that we have very great reservations, which were made even greater when the State Secretary told the committee that it would be the highest leverage of investment funds in the entire history of the country. Even more he stressed that no leverage of 1 to 2 has ever been achieved in a programme of this kind, and never before in the course of such a short time total leverage with European funds. Those were his words. Is it really possible to believe, however foolish ones, that a government that wasted EUR 41 billion on loans for mainly consumer purposes, which increased the budget deficits of more than 30 billion in just two years, which has launched the deficits of the current account again, which has increased government and red private debt accordingly, can achieve such miracles? Obviously not, unless it is indebtedly subsidized by the government, such as some media, with loan funds that we will all pay. The second reason for our urgent procedure was to understand when we found out how many problems the contracts involve, particularly the credit, namely that government and troika are trying to avoid the debate, as was the case with the Memorandums, because unacceptable conditions are laid down. On the other hand, the Undersecretary did not even say that part of the subsidies will be reimbursed back, because it is money that the European Union will borrow and it will return if we are not wrong, after 2027 by increasing the contributions of the Member States. Therefore, it is not actually about 17.7 billion, but about a lot less about it in the end, and to a large extent they will be dispersed by the domestic oligarchy. In addition, an important part of them will return to the countries of the European Centre, from which the imports of green and digital technologies required by the programme accompanying the Convention will increase. Therefore, the benefit to ordinary citizens from the subsidy will be from no-neutral to no-existent, so it actually makes no sense. In some articles in the first contract, the grant, we were impressed by Article 11, which states that 70% is provided on the basis of some parameters and the equation in Annex 2. With regard to 30%, again with a complex formula analysed in Annex 3, formulas worth seeing how complex they are and we will submit them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As we have said, this fact alone is enough to conclude that it is a contract of a problematic investment banker and not a political decision, while anyone who has worked on this subject understands immediately, when he sees such complex formulas, that something suspicious is behind them. We are almost certain, however, that the government will find it difficult to understand both of these formulas if we assume that someone read them and tried them. In our question whether 7.9 billion euros can actually be collected this year, as Mr Skeylakis said, he replied that the first instalment of about 3.9 billion may come by the end of the year or he may not come by the end of the year, effectively abrogating his statements. However, during the contract, EUR 2,310,092,538, i.e. 13% of the total, is paid as an advance. However, Article 5 may require that part of them be returned after the amounts referred to in Article 11(2) of the Reconstruction and Development Instrument have been updated. So nothing is certain, whereas there is no provision for cash consequences in this case from the General Accounting Office of the State, as is usually the case. As far as Article 6 is concerned, it goes without saying that if we do not do what we will be imposed on us or if we do not invest where they want to import from them, no money is given. Article 13 states that sanctions may be imposed, but the Minister did not give us a reply on what these sanctions may include. Article 17 states that the convention is governed by Luxembourg law and falls under the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which makes us very cautious. The loan contract, covering the loans accompanying the development package, refers to the preamble with a maximum of EUR 12,727.538.920. The advance here is about 1.65 billion, so Greece can collect together with the non-refundable allocation of 2.31 billion in total of 3.964.672.598 euros. Furthermore, Article 11 is the important difference between that party and the first contract. It concerns the interest rate on the exact level of which we asked the Minister, and unfortunately he did not reply to us, as we said before. However, Article 20 of the first contract refers to a default interest rate of 3.5%, so we asked whether it was different to that of late payment, which we calculated between 3.5% and 5.5%, perhaps more, but it does not seem exactly. We have not received an answer here, either, but only that the loans will be provided at the rate that the Commission will borrow from the markets. In this regard, I would ask the Minister to tell us exactly where the agreement is concerned and we have not noticed it, since we believe only what we are reading and not what is being said. Finally, Article 15 describes cases of default where the Member State fails to fulfil the conditions or does not pay the payments. In this case it is also subject to interest on late payment, in some way. If that's possible! In conclusion, as far as the first convention is concerned, we do not want to be entirely negative, despite the fact that we totally disagree with the use of funds, and we do not see any benefit for Greece, which will certainly not be saved with just 17.7 billion under certain strict conditions, with doses and which will ultimately be much less. The 'only' does not mean that we underestimate the amount, but that, compared to the 41 billion that the government wasted on credit, at the same time plunging Greece into recession, it is much lower. As far as the loan contract is concerned, however, we are vertically opposed, hoping that the Greeks will understand that it has no difference from their well-known colonial memoirs, and eventually it will increase public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The floor is given by the special speaker of Mera25 Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members, MPs, Ministers, we are debating the Recovery Fund today. In practice, we are talking about a fund of great hypocrisy, a trade of hope, that this money will go to society, that money is coming for society, for the market. At the same time as the entire Recovery Fund is technically set up, so that a euro does not reach the neighborhoods, does not reach the local markets, does not reach the coronary businesses. Citizens will watch the pluto-state party waiting for something to come for them too, that there is something that comes for them too. Finally, these citizens only send the bill. With these 12.7 billion to a minimum, debt walls in this country are being raised even more, in this highly indebted country, with unsustainable debt. You're raising the debt by 12.7 billion. And that's not all. It is a total of 12.7 billion, which does not concern the companies that need support at all, and another 27 billion, i.e. 40 billion, from the leverage of the private sector. Let's see what that money is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Arseni, take a second, please. Let me inform my colleagues that after Mr Arsenis, the Minister, Mr Staikoras, will take the floor. I would point this out for the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and colleagues who want to hear the Minister's speech. I'm sorry, Mr. Arseni, for the interruption. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u78	So the official amount that raises the debt wall, the debt prison for Greek citizens is 12.7 billion. You are talking about 27 billion more in the private sector. Let's see a little what these 27 billion are all about. A large part of them are PPPs, public-private partnerships. Where are you going to do PPP? In irrigation. Let's see what that means. Are we lending money to give a private business to a pluralist to be honest and getting to run the dams exclusively at Thessaic Campo? And what will the cost to the citizens? What will be the increase in costs for farmers? How much are fixed costs, in addition to the 12.7 billion that we officially borrow? How big will the bill be for the citizens? But how does it exclude small and medium-sized ones from the Recovery Fund? In a very simple way: you are addressing highly indebted companies at the moment, to the limits of bankruptcy, and what do you request in order to benefit from this fund for their recovery? To have own funds. They must have surplus funds so that they can give 20% of the total investment to be financed from their own funds. They must also have 30% borrowing, i.e. they must be able to borrow from a bank. What business today can they borrow from a bank? Let's ask the banks themselves. What do the four systemic banks tell us? That eight hundred thousand businesses, the vast majority of businesses, the backbone of our economy cannot access banking and they will be excluded from the Recovery Fund. So who is borrowing, increasing our debt by 12.7 billion and the total debt of the citizens by far more, multiple than that? It is not for companies in need, it is not for companies affected by your coronary and lockdowns. These are excluded de facto. So what's the recovery about if it's not about these businesses? It concerns the known five large business families and a few more businesses. It's about this party with interests, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You're actually bringing us the fifth Memorandum here. You bring it into pieces. The financial component is loans that are being voted on today. You brought us to the medium term the unthinkable primary surpluses of 3.7%. You have brought the regulations to work, the working-age-age-old, the break-up of insurance, where even the European Commission has asked you questions by making the public debt you are causing, precisely to privatise the insurance system. So you're bringing us the fifth Memorandum into sections. You'll tell us: Yes, but, you know, there's no surveillance, the Troika visits. Not at all. There is enhanced surveillance, there are reports setting out what the government should do in the next period, which legislation should take. The fifth memorial is unfortunately here, simply in a more polite package for the citizens, with a lot of hypocrisy, with a mistake wise and a trade of hope that "do not worry, everything is fine" when at the moment a game is played on the backs of the citizens who have never been in the history of the country. But there is also a part that is not returned. It is the first contract, that is, grants. You will say: Why do you not support grants, regardless of whether they are linked to borrowing? What you're going to do here has seen it in "Greece 2.0". Financing will be directed to the four pillars, namely a green transition, a digital transition, employment skills, social cohesion, private investment and the transformation of the economy. The use of these terms is evident from your life and state that it is completely falsified. Let us take a typical example. We read that the promotion of strategic urban renewals of high development and environmental value is also included. Really, what's included in here? We have asked and committed Mr. Skoplakis that the Greek is not included. We are sure that the Greek will be in here and we will be watching it for a moment, as you will include the Botanic, as you already include the E65 with the EUR 500 million to the contractor who should have put it into practice from his pocket. Whether the part of the grants, then, or the part of the loan, will be unravelled by the rich people, by the patras of "Metsotakis S.A.". But citizens must learn the following: the European Commission obliges countries to have a public authority to monitor the programme. So Mr. Mitsotakis, your Government decided and set up a government committee headed by Mr. Mitsotakis, who will monitor the inclusion of investment projects in the funding programme and the implementation path. The Prime Minister himself will share the pie. And that for those who have doubts that the Recovery and Resilience Fund is something else than a party of oligarchy in civil health. But I would also like to turn to SYRIZA. I'm trying to understand your speeches in committee. We have seen both the rapporteur on behalf of SYRIZA and many Members, fighting almost physically, almost into the hands of the Members of the New Democracy. The tension had actually reached the peak. For what? Because there is an unacceptable procedure to discuss the bill at a committee meeting and immediately after two days to come to plenary today. And then we see you say that you are looking at the substance, and today you have not even said what you are voting on. Will it be 'yes', will it be 'present'? What exactly are you going to vote on? You have not clarified it to us. I want to understand if you vote 'yes' or 'yes'. Are you going to vote and you will not say no to the fact - I will refer to my constituency, but there are many regions corresponding to Greece - that in Peristeri, Aegelo, Illion, Saint Anargyros and Cameroon, in Agia Varvara, in Petropolis, in Haidari, not a single euro will reach the coronary businesses? Aren't you saying no to that? Aren't you saying no that the wall of the debt prison is rising for the citizens and all the money is going to go to the big business? What do you expect to happen to say no? Unfortunately, those who are making decisions at the moment on SYRIZA lure with you and historical executives who have given fights. You are entangled in a party at the moment that has decided strategically the role of the good boy with the lenders. You are willing to make any break as long as you do not misunderstand that you are threatening creditors by break, that you are questioning the basic structure of the memorandums. And that is your policy, the policy you bring the country with no hope. We call on the SYRIZA citizens and officials who are aware of SYRIZA's deadlocked policy at the moment to diversify themselves, to change militarism, not to be militant with the good children of the Memorandum and Troika. On the contrary, we as PART25 are clearly voting against this bill, the hypocrisy fund, Minister, which you promise, while you know that it is not the case, that the money will reach the neighborhoods, the local economies and that there will not be a single euro in the local economies. You're passing everything through bank lending as you don't have to. We have examples, we know how Portugal did it. You, as you did not have to, want to pass it all through the banks to exclude the companies that really need recovery, to borrow all of us. The account will be for the citizens and the money will be in the businesses that have gained from the crisis, both from the lockdowns and the coronary. To those who were on constant recovery in the coronary, you give them to them. We are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u79	And we thank Mr Arseni. The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, because today's meeting is the last before the summer break of Parliament's work to give you, to present and present you with the current situation and prospects of the Greek economy for which the best use of Community funds will play, to make the best use of all European funds and instruments both of the Recovery Fund and of the multiannual financial framework for which he has spoken with flattering words - and I congratulate him - of the rapporteur for Officerial Response. Today, I am going to talk to you about the main issue, because I have heard many and different, but inconsistently, as regards the government's strategy to achieve a strong recovery this year and sustainable development from 2022 onwards. And all of this is included in an integrated plan, which is gradually but rapidly unfolding, beyond toys and errors, for which the last speaker and rapporteur from Mera25 are mentioned, firmly behind the line of "creative ambiguity" that destroyed the country in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been almost a year and a half since the outbreak of the unprecedented global health crisis, a crisis which occurred at a time when our country took the first steps towards stabilisation and development following a long, extremely difficult and painful effort to adapt to the budget. Despite the strong turbulence caused and continues to cause the pandemic, the Greek economy has demonstrated considerable strength and has not lost its potential in the areas of reforms, structural changes and investment. We have managed by planning and implementing the appropriate policies to limit as much as possible the effects of the pandemic, to continue the implementation of our government plan in the next day and to strengthen the credibility of the country. The Greek economy now recovers strongly in 2021. A number of precursor indicators of the economy are inspiring realistic optimism to achieve an initial strong recovery this year and then a high and sustainable economic growth in the post-Koronian era. And to keep us out of air, let's talk with evidence. The economic downturn was kept at a lower level than the original forecasts for 2020 and for the first quarter of 2021, at least on the basis of the provisional data. The country has demonstrated the best performance in the Eurozone in terms of containment of unemployment within the health crisis. Industrial production for six consecutive months moves steadily upwards. The expectations of processing for four consecutive months are reinforced by above the 50 threshold. Mr. Harris knows very well what I'm talking about. The economic climate indicator climbed to pre-kronoid levels. Electronic transactions systematically exceed those of the corresponding months of 2019. And one could easily tell me: yes, it is the transition of the citizen to a new way of consumer habits, if the growth rates in electronic transactions were steadily higher - a month. Here we are seeing an increase in consumption over the months, and there is proof that consumption is also being strengthened. The latest figures show that in July electronic transactions were 25.5% higher than in 2019 when in April they were about 13% to 14%. Travel arrivals are more than twice as high as 2020. With the current state domestic flights are minus 24% from 2019 and external flights minus 41% from 2019. Private deposits are increasing. The cost of borrowing on the money markets is consistently negative and yesterday, our country once again borrowed at negative cost, with a negative interest rate on the money markets. The cost of borrowing on capital markets is historically low. And don't rush to tell me that yes, it's all due to the European Central Bank, because the European Central Bank is helping all countries, especially the South. Our country has managed to reduce the spread and, indeed, in some countries, such as Italy, to become negative in relation to all the countries of the South. This is proof of the credibility and confidence of economic policy pursued. The country's creditworthiness is increasingly being upgraded within the health crisis. Two systemic banks have successfully completed capital increases. The competitiveness of the economy in all international indicators is improving. Significant structural changes and reforms continue to be implemented. Indicatively only in the last two - three months we have been implementing the new framework for dealing with private debt. We extend the successful programme 'ERAKLIS' to reduce non-performing loans. I have already heard the Greek rapporteur say that red loans are increasing. The opposite happens. We have completed the first phase of the reform of the objectively defined property values system. We completed the transfer of "ELLENIC S.A.", placing in place the Greek flagship project. We have successfully completed the competitive procedures for the Scaramaga shipyards. That's the data. These are the elements I have never heard of being placed on board. All of this is strong, valid indications that the Greek economy will recover this year, quickly and powerfully. I have heard the rapporteur from the Committee on Civil Liberties and good colleague, Mr Haritsis, say that there will be some growth this year. But, when we were discussing a few months ago, you yourself, of the Officerial Response, said that economic growth would be almost nil this year, while at the same time supporting only one OECD report, which had emerged last year and which was reviewed by the best for this year. I have tabled Mrs Ahtsoglou's relevant position in the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u81	Minister, I didn't say for this year. I said after the crisis there would be growth. I didn't set time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u82	Now you come and say there will be a satisfactory rate of economic growth, which would come anyway. That's not the reality. With today's data, therefore, achieving the economic growth target of 3.6% in 2021 is absolutely feasible, realistic and I will add - with today's data, I repeat - perhaps conservative. Besides, all the estimates of the last few weeks from the Bank of Greece, the EIB, the European Commission, IOBE, the OECD, credit institutions, rating houses are much more optimistic about the recovery of the economy this year. It is a recovery which seems to be reinforced by the satisfactory course of tourism and the possible extension of the tourist season, of course, in relation to domestic and international economic data, by the gradual increase in household spending following the accumulation of savings during the pandemic and by the increase in investment through both the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework. However, as the Ministry of Finance, we do not rush to revise our forecasts for 2021. We expect ELSTAT's data on economic progress in the first half of the year, taking into account the uncertainty in the health field and the high volatility in external macroeconomic developments. I therefore think that I have proved you through evidence, through the very reality of the matter, because the objectives we have set are absolutely realistic. Note: I used the term'recovery', not 'development'. At the same time, however, we have taken advantage of our time, moving on a coherent plan to create the conditions for sustainable development. We are working hard and methodically, continuing and expanding the implementation of this successful economic policy, with a strong reformist and developmental mark, joining, Mr Colleague, the principles and values of social liberalism. This policy, the development strategy you mentioned and said that there is no government, is based on seven pillars. The first pillar is the continuation of aid to affected households and businesses and the gradual transition to economic relaunching measures. The economy returns to normality, but we do not leave households and businesses affected without help. It is estimated that 4 billion euros will be disbursed by the end of the year to specific sectors and businesses affected by the health crisis. The second pillar is the implementation of a prudent fiscal policy towards further reducing taxes and social security contributions. We're already moving on these axes. Already the citizens in the tax clearance find that those who pay taxes which, until now, are about 30% have a much smaller amount to pay and the large part of society does not pay any taxes, about 52% and the rest have a credit card. We have reduced taxes on natural persons, on the lowest income levels, Mr Colleague, from 22% to 9%. We have reduced taxation on businesses, for all businesses, large, medium-sized and small. We have reduced the tax advance for all businesses, large, medium-sized and small. We have reduced the tax advance for natural persons engaged in business, for all natural persons. We have abolished the solidarity levy on private sector incomes. We have reduced insurance contributions by increasing the available income of our middle-class fellow citizens working in the private sector. So we have proven ourselves to be moving in what we had previously promised. Third pillar is the maintenance of strong cash flows through the implementation of a consistent, smart and perceptive publishing strategy. For example, today cash is about what we had before the health crisis. All the resources we raised in the two years, about EUR 41 billion, were used to help society. Fourth axis is the creation of the appropriate conditions for a strong credit expansion through a strong and healthy banking system. We are reducing the volume of red loans, extending the successful program 'HRAKLIS'. We regulate debts to reduce the high accumulated private debt and use the EUR 12.7 billion of the recovery fund loans to strengthen the real economy through the banking system. Fifth priority is the continuation of the dismantling programme, the promotion of the exploitation of public property, the implementation of reforms that will enhance the structural competitiveness of the economy. Greek, reforming the OAS, privatization or exploitation of regional ports, marinas, Scaramagas, "LARCO", EAB proves that we are facing the problems. We don't hide them under the rug. The next initiative is the country's active and responsible participation, as in the last two years, in the initiatives for the new European economic architecture, including the reform of the conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact. And finally, the seventh priority, the seventh pillar, is the best use of European financial instruments, with the recovery fund that we are debating today. You see, therefore, that there is an integrated economic strategy with pillars and policies that we are already implementing in each pillar to lead to the final result, which is what? Sustainable development, increasing the available income of all citizens, creating many good jobs and strengthening social cohesion. Therefore, according to data, not from the Greek Government, but from the European Commission, in 2022, the Greek economy will grow at a rate of 6%, when the European average is 4.5%. But that's enough for us? The answer is no, because that means increasing the country's wealth, very positive, but we also have another target. To improve the quality of wealth. We have said that we will achieve the productive transformation of the economy again according to the European Commission, not the Greek Government. Investments will increase by 15% in 2022, when the European average is 5% and exports by 8%, when the European average is 0%, thus proving that this year we will have a strong recovery, sustainable growth in the coming years, high and sustainable, achieving the productive transformation of this. An important driving force is the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, resources which, as a percentage of GDP, are more than any other European Member State - Member State, thanks to the successful negotiation of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his government. Resources best exploited through the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. A plan that is coherent, extroverted and mature, as everyone points out. A plan that, within introductory terms - as long as I tell you this and I do not need to convince you with arguments as a member of the government - has been'recognised' as one of the best, as the President of Eurogroup, Mr Pascal Donahou, pointed out a week ago during his visit to Greece. "We win the trust of all in Greece." We are, however, gaining the trust primarily of Greek society, and we are also accounting for this trust, we are constantly seeking to date and we will have it. Not yours, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is the starting point for the activation of our project. It recommends the culmination of the hard and systematic work done by the Government and the coordination under the relevant Deputy Minister for Finance last year for the preparation and deposit of the project "Greece 2.0". In particular, two critical agreements are ratified and have the force of law in mind. Diagonally I will be placed on them, the Deputy Minister of Finance will make a more extensive report. The first concerns the financial contribution to our country, a non-refundable financial support corresponding to EUR 17.8 billion of direct subsidies of EUR 13.5 billion, of which EUR 13.5 billion will be available for a legal commitment by 31 December 2022, and also provides for the possibility of disbursing up to 13% of the financial contribution as pre-financing. This figure is EUR 2.3 billion, which will be paid directly. The second contract concerns the provision of support with a financial facility of up to EUR 12.7 billion in loans and with the loan contract, the possibility of disbursing funds with 13% pre-financing, corresponding to some EUR 1.7 billion in loan support. Ladies and gentlemen, through the Recovery Fund Europe has acted collectively and forcefully to tackle the health crisis. Our common goal is not only to stem the effects of the unprecedented global health and economic adventure, but also to build a better and sustainable future. As an expression of this will, the abovementioned conditions of both the financing contract and the loan contract are considered particularly favourable to Greece. In addition to the non-refundable funding that our country will receive, it will also be financed at very low borrowing costs, which is now possible due to the ratification of the decision on the new system of European Union own resources in which Greece proceeded in good time in March 2021. About two weeks ago, on 13 July - and after receiving the European Commission's positive assessment, Greece 2.0 was approved by the Finance Ministers of the European Union together with eleven other Member States' plans. In just five years' time, the country must pursue and ensure - and it will do so - the greatest possible benefit from the influx of all the subsidies planned and the provision of low-interest loans. A framework is therefore needed to bring about the least possible exposure to budgetary or other risks and to ensure that actions financed from contract resources will benefit the country and society as a whole. The high quality of the Greek Recovery and Resilience Plan and the relevant governance mechanisms established to support it form this framework. The reasons are specific. Firstly, the project is based on economic efficiency and social return and has been drawn up to cover the large gap in investment, productivity, national product and employment. The project concerns society as a whole, covers the whole of society together with the other combined programmes that exist with European resources and have multiple social policies. Mr Colleague, you have tabled a number of tables on the issues of poverty and inequality. You will allow me to tell you that there are many readings. I will also present from ELSTAT June 2021 the most recent data on the risk of poverty. First of all, a positive element for the country - and I say in total for the country, it is for you and us - is that the threshold of poverty in terms of the absolute level of a household's earnings is growing. It was four thousand five hundred twelve in 2015, it reached four thousand nineteen euros in 2019 and now it is five thousand sixteen. I think this is a collective success. The poverty threshold has therefore increased and the risk of poverty in Greece has been the 17.7% of society. It has fallen in relation to 2016, 2017 and 2019, and this also applies to comparing it to the European Commission. You will therefore allow me to table these tables in the Minutes as well, so that we can have a holistic approach to the matter. [[At this point the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, Greece 2.0 is designed to operate in a relevant and complementary manner with the new corporate pact for the 2021-2027 programming period, its sectoral and regional operational programmes. Yesterday Greece - and it was a great success, a collective success - became the first European country to which the final agreement was approved by the European Commission. In total, for every single euro that we are going to make in Europe, we have the possibility of receiving EUR 4.6 when we have been given EUR 2.9 to the best of cases so far. Thirdly, resources will not substitute regular government budget expenditure, nor will they be used for actions whose implementation requires public expenditure that is extended after the end of the funding period. Fourthly, through channelling the additional funds to be raised from borrowing to targeted actions and sustainable recovery policies, further pressures on the state budget will be avoided. Fifthly, "Greece 2.0" was drawn up with a view to making the best and fastest possible disbursement and use of resources. Taking into account the demanding framework for disbursements, the consistency in the design of the actions of the Greek project, the excellence of its costing and the substantial involvement of the Ministries' bodies in its design are those elements which will enable the rapid and effective absorption of resources. Sixth and lastly, in the context of the integrated strategic governance demonstrated by the Government to date, the Ministry of Finance has been set up and operated by the Special Coordination Service of the Relief and Resilience Fund and necessary accompanying administrative mechanisms for the effective coordination of the implementation of the National Plan and the timely absorption and use of all resources by the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is now being called upon to take all the opportunities opened before it to achieve the necessary dynamic relaunching and entry into a strong, sustainable and inclusive development orbit. The government has been vigilant in addressing the challenges and in making the best use of opportunities. Greece has demonstrated, society has demonstrated, the citizens have demonstrated that they can progress dynamically ahead. In cooperation with the European partners and having recovered our credibility, we continue working hard and methodically. With self-confidence and responsibility we draw up the future, the way to our future, a future of prosperity and justice for all, especially for the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you to the Minister, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Villardo, listen to something. You don't have the floor. Let me explain. You should have known for so long. The only one who could and can intervene for two minutes is the Parliamentary Representative. You, as a special speaker, and the rapporteurs can in your dentistry be placed. Mr Stavros Kalogannis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing two conventions, the Financing Convention and the loan agreement between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, which triggers the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The National Plan "Greece 2.0" validates a completely successful government negotiation with the European Commission. Our country will benefit from a huge amount of EUR 30.5 billion, of which EUR 17.8 billion and EUR 12.7 billion of aid is very low. As a percentage of GDP Greece will receive most of the money from any other Member State, up to 20% of GDP. This is translated into 7% permanent GDP growth and more than a hundred thousand permanent jobs by 2026. The key to high growth and job creation is to promote reforms and the large volume of private investment. The government intends to mobilise investment funds totalling EUR 60 billion and that is the big bet. What does the National Recovery Plan include? The project consists of four pillars: the first pillar is green transition, the second digital transformation, third employment, skills and social cohesion, and fourth private investment and institutional transformation. Among its eighteen axles there is consistency and complementarity. Its architecture ensures that its axles are connected to the six pillars laid down in European Regulation 2021/241 on the Recovery Fund and are consistent with the specific recommendations in the framework of the European Semester. Let us see briefly what the pillars include, while tabling a number of proposals. With regard to the first pillar, the green transition, the investments and reforms of the project include, inter alia, energy upgrading of buildings, development throughout the country of a charging network of electric vehicles, water supply and urban waste water management projects. This is where I open a parable, Minister. As far as the planned establishment of a water regulator is concerned, I have some reservations. We had discussed the issue years ago, and we had come up with a special water secretariat. It is a matter that comes back and we can see it again and I close the parenthesis. It also includes the protection of biodiversity, the implementation of urban planning, the preparation of local urban plans, while ensuring their establishment so that they are effective, Minister, the promotion of high development and environmental value urban renewals. I propose that, as provided for in the Ioannina Regulatory Plan, the renewal of the Belgrade Camp, with its conversion into a green and cultural park, should be included in this pillar. For the second pillar and digital transformation, the investments of the project include, inter alia, the creation of a dense fibre optic network, the development of a 5G network on motorways, the digitisation of archives in towns and property registers that are absolutely essential, the upgrading of central infrastructure and cloud computing services, the promotion of smart cities. And obviously here we have to use the BIM as a tool. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] The third pillar of the Employment and Social Cohesion Plan includes, inter alia, a reform of the labour market for job creation, a strategy for training with a continuous evaluation of providers, strengthening the performance of universities in research and innovation, digital transformation into curriculum programmes, investment to strengthen the health system. Finally, with regard to the fourth pillar on private investment, the plan includes, among other things, modernisation of the public, faster administration of justice, selected infrastructure projects - we welcomed the inclusion of the E65 and the Northern Road Axis of Crete in the Recovery Plan, a major road safety programme - electronic toll, finally - I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the previous SYRIZA government promised an electronic toll function in 2018 - strengthening culture and tourism, the development of business parks. At this point, Mr Ministers, I would like to point out that Yannina is absolutely in need of a technopolis. We have a very good university, top technology companies, two big hospitals. The technopolis is necessary. We have foreseen it in the 2009 Regulatory Plan. Included in the 2018 revised Spatial Plan. It is therefore necessary to initiate the relevant procedures as provided for in Law 2545/1997, namely to demarcate and organize the proposed area so that it can function as a reception area for high-tech, research and training companies. It is necessary to set up the body, an anonymous company to take over the project, to initiate the relevant procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, the Recovery and Resilience Plan has been designed to work in a relevant and complementary manner with the new NSRP 2021-2027 and the "ITIS REFERENCE" programme for local self-government. The big bet is the timely and rational use of the project funds within a five-year period. In addition, milestones, objectives, indicators, timetables for monitoring and implementation are set out in the plan. It is therefore necessary to organise, speed and coordination. The national plan aims to lead the country to a new era, to a different development model, extroverted, competitive, green, less bureaucratic, with an effective social protection network. We trust the government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance that prepared the plan and achieved its rapid approval. I support their work, and I wholeheartedly hope that the objectives will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kalogannis, for the consistency in time. Now we'll give the floor to Mrs. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, after listening to your speech, I felt that you described a different country from Greece that the Greek people and all of us live every day. You spoke of a country where the real economy has been supported - it was, in fact, the first axis of the seven you mentioned - a country where the income of workers is based, employment and, indeed, you spoke of a great deal of support for the weaker social strata. The reality, however, is that today in our country four out of ten small and medium-sized enterprises - with elements not of the SYRIZA, but of the business operators themselves - are at risk of being unable to do so by the end of the year. The reality is that one third of the employees are currently at the minimum wage. And, indeed, we heard the Prime Minister speak of a symbolic increase of 0.50 mixed in the dividend. That is, in other words, a hunger and an insult to a time of crisis and so many difficulties faced by workers and not only objectively because of the pandemic, but also because of your policies, with the culmination of the anti-government policy of the Hatzidakis Act. The remaining third is down in terms of wages from the minimum wage, in fact in part elastic employment where it is barely overdue. As far as inequalities are concerned, these are, unfortunately, being widened daily and, indeed, at this very difficult time of this multiple trial and crisis that you have chosen, on the one hand, to reduce the funding of the social state, of education, of health, of the same welfare as that of solidarity in the difficult phase that goes through the Greek people, but at the same time, beyond the funding, to shrink the social state by opening the welfare of the social state and of services to the markets and privatisation. We have also seen it in education, in health and, unfortunately, in the supplementary insurance legislation. Our rapporteur, Alexis Haritsis, has made a thorough presentation of our criticism of your proposal in relation to the Recovery Fund, which is, of course, a positive development and also signals this shift of Europe's policy from austerity to a more expansionist policy in terms of urgency - of course - to support the real economy, workers and societies themselves with a redistribution of social cohesion. I would also like to concentrate above all on the issues of work and the social state, namely Axis 3. There I think that, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is reflected in the clearest way, because it is working and social-state issues, your neoliberal policy, but at the same time a policy that is obsolete and out of place and out of time. In other words, we see even the conservative correlation in Europe, which has not suddenly become progressive, but have as a matter of urgency turned to a policy that is coming to support wages, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, your proposal, like all your policies, is to strengthen the few, the strong, the large private interests at the expense of the vast social majority. So, first of all, as far as work is concerned, the references you make to your proposal speak about the labour market and, of course, they are reflected in the concept of complete deregulation of the labour market with all the consequences that this entails. You have put the Hatzidakis Law as a flagrant reform and, indeed, the barbaric title in this reform, as you say, that it is about modernisation and effectiveness in relation to collective labour law and the organisation of work. Of course, the truth is that with the Hatzidakis Act you are not just coming to dismantle work, you are coming to abolish the eighth hour - and this is already being done - to reduce the wages of workers by imposing, in fact, two hours unpaid work, to multiply cheap overtime. In fact, you will also be hitting the unemployed - not only the workers - because through this over-exploitation of workers with cheap labour and over-working you are actually preventing new recruitments. We are talking about about forty thousand new recruitments being lost through the implementation of this anti-government policy and, of course, you are not even in line with the European average in terms of collective bargaining, as you have undermined them in every way, as in Europe they are over 50% in many countries and 70%, such as Spain and Portugal, countries of the south, coverage with collective bargaining and contracts, while in our country they are now constantly shrinking and they are barely 14%. It is therefore your flagrant reform that also defines your policy and this reduction in wages today brings our country to the eighth worst position with regard to the pay and wage coverage of workers throughout Europe at a time of crisis, precarious work, where thousands of workers are currently losing their jobs or are going to lose their jobs. With a million hundred and fifty thousand unemployed registered, but also thousands of invisible unemployed who are now out of the system, you are now coming with your proposal to provide a minimum financial amount for active employment policies and, indeed, you are giving a huge sum to training, but not to support, in connection with support for the fight against unemployment and, above all, for the private interests of the training you want to support. And, indeed, you come and exclude the public sector from active employment policies, which is completely outside the needs of the time and, at the same time, throughout Europe, the state plays an important role in supporting the economy, as well as in supporting the work itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I will still speak and close. As far as social welfare is concerned, it is characteristic that you have set the minimum amount of EUR 600 million and, in fact, 50% of this amount goes back to training, because that is exactly what you see. It is a concept which does not support workers, does not support wages, does not support the social state, and that is where our great difference lies, because we believe that in order to be sustainable the recovery and growth must support workers who are the productive force at work, it is the social state and, above all, it requires policies that support the social majority. This is the perspective and certainly in relation to your proposal, it is certain that the Greek people understand and understand, and when there will be the new people's mandate in SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and in a new progressive government, then we will be able to revise and redirect the goals and funding of the Recovery Fund for our country in this direction of prospect and prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u89	The next speaker is Mr Kavadas Athanasios from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on ratification of the financing agreement between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic is not merely linked to the Recovery Fund, it is very important. This is the first time that the European Union has implemented a common loan framework, which itself is being borrowed by markets for its Member States. Some time ago this would be unthinkable. But the pandemic has created new data. There was a coordinated effort and pressure from countries members of the European Union, as well as joint initiatives from European leaders. I would remind you that at the beginning of the pandemic, seeing its scope and its effects on the economy, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, together with eight more European leaders, has proposed the creation of a common framework for raising and channelling funds in the Member States of the European Union. In fact, it was the proposal that led to the Recovery Fund. Greece, through the Recovery Fund, has the potential to make use of resources totalling EUR 30.5 billion. Of these, EUR 17.8 billion will be aid, while EUR 12.7 billion will be loans. And here it is worth pointing out that we are taking most of the money from every other country in Europe in relation to GDP. We are at 20% of GDP, the next one at 15%, that is, Greece actually gets most of the money. The Greek plan for exploiting the resources of the Recovery Fund, which was one of the first to be approved by the Commission, was built in such a way as to multiply the benefits for our economy. Through the participation of the private sector, the resources that can be exploited will be increased almost twice and will give new impetus and growth potential to our economy. We are talking about a total package of EUR 57 billion. The fact is that the mistakes of the past will not be repeated in terms of the management of financial programmes, as took place in the 1980s and 1990s and later on. This financial package will not be wasted on counterproductive expenditure and investment. On the contrary, the Greek project for the first time may be part of the strategic planning for the next day. The national recovery and resilience plan "Greece 2.0" includes a hundred six investment projects and sixty-seven reforms. It is linked to top infrastructure projects such as, for example, in my area, the Preveza, Arta and Lefkada budget of EUR 130 million, a length of 90 km, already integrated for financing by the Recovery Fund and approved by ECOFIN, a project that has all the specifications and possibilities to start immediately. It's a high-growth project. It concerns three prefectures and part of Itolokarnania and provides a permanent and sustainable solution to the water supply problem, improves quality of life and the prospects for tourism and economic development. And I want this one, Mr. Ministers, to invite you to incorporate the pipeline into the next package of projects that will be financed. As I said, it is mature, there are ready studies and tender documents. It is therefore necessary, Minister, to take its turn, to submit the technical bulletin from the Ministry of Infrastructure in order to proceed with the financing and start construction. It is a project necessary for all the water supply areas. Especially in Lefkada, it will help restore smooth water supply in many areas now suffering from long holidays. At the same time, it will meet the needs for drinking water that will grow as long as the areas grow tourists and the construction, rentals and visitors grow. Of course, in view of climate change, it will ensure the uninterrupted access of all citizens to drinking water, a good that unfortunately cannot be taken for granted, as we need infrastructure and rational resource management, conditions that ensure this great project. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the prerequisites for attracting investment and creating development potential at regional level is infrastructure. From there on, the government has made clear its plan for the country, which on three axes. The first axis is linked to the time target until 2026 through the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. The aim is to create another Greece with strong and sustainable growth and with two thousand new jobs. The second axis is linked to the country's new development and productive model. The green transition, the digital transformation of the economy, the strengthening of employment and skills for workers, and social cohesion will be the building blocks of the country's new development model. The third axis combines investment with reforms. After all, the main objective is to fill the great gap in investment in the productive sector and not just. The Greek plan is thus structured to form the conditions for public-private partnerships. It is assumed that in areas such as health, education, vocational training, justice and the social protection network there will be significant investment and reforms to enhance the quality, efficiency and access to these services. At the same time, the possibility of cofinancing through various financial instruments, as well as by the financial system, can be exploited. In this way, additional funds will be available for eligible private investments. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the bill is the ratification of the financing agreement and of the loan contract concluded between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic. It is linked to the first disbursement of 4 billion euros over the next period, which will boost our economy and put it in a development orbit. What we all have to understand is that the national recovery and resilience plan "Greece 2.0" is the last opportunity perhaps to change the country's speed, to become Greece with a strong economy, on a productive basis, with social cohesion, especially with new and well-paid jobs for all and especially for our young people. This objective is not only a government target, it is a national objective! Thank you very much, and I wish everyone a good vacation and a good rest!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u91	We will now give Mr Ioannis Drasakis the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u92	In listening to the debate, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to recall that this is not the first time that we have been discussing the use of European funds in our country. Too many times this has happened. A lot of projects such as the metro, such as Rio-Antirio and all over Greece, have been financed by European funds, either the ESDP, as we call it last, or the Delore package, as was called before, and so on. The question, therefore, is not whether some projects will be carried out. Obviously, some works will now be done. Is that what we're talking about? The question is whether European funds can be exploited in a way that helps to change the production model, to acquire an economy that does not lead to bankruptcy and crises, to gain sustainable and fair growth. That is the bet we have and not to list projects, which - very nicely! - there will be some works now, no one says there will be nothing. Here, then, is the problem, there has been a criticism from the SYRIZA rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, but also from other speakers from all over opposition. I think that they sounded right. I sum up what I consider important: the resources of the fund, European resources are complementary resources to national resources. There has been a distortion here for decades. It is not the national plan that is financed by Brussels. We are supposed to make a national plan with all the resources - not only economic - we draw up a strategy and then come to various resources - the Europeans, the creditors, the European Investment Bank - and they finance this project. The distortion, therefore, is that we have substituted the necessary national planning with these European funding injections every time. The result is to have fragmentary lists, as I said before, but project lists do not constitute a plan. On the contrary, many times even if the projects are useful and important, they contribute to the fragmentation of development. The draft drawn up by the Government therefore continues on this negative side of tradition, reproduces the existing model, in terms of its production structure and mode of operation, by stepping up its anti-social elements, because it has been linked to all that has been voted on on the labour issue, and since no specific objectives have been set to act as an impediment to the increase in inequalities, it is not excluded that this plan should lead to new deficits and to greater disparities. This is therefore the strategic bet that the government has had, and in which the government has taken no steps to change the negative tradition, but continues it in the worst way. Secondly, from the Greek project - of course, from the European one, I must observe - especially from the Greek Government's responsibility for the absence of a government, it is totally hypotonic that small and medium-sized enterprises, as is the regional dimension, as is the absence of these productive objectives. Is there a study, Minister, is there a criterion? Is there any prior or ex post evaluation in order to know whether or not these funds will help improve added value? Will they contribute to substituting imports or will they contribute to increasing imports? Will they contribute to sustainable export growth or not? In other words, have these crucial issues been studied in connection with the planning of the development and use of these resources? Here, as they have insinuated, there is a deficit in European planning as well. It is part of the plan against the countries of the south and the structures of the economies of the south, but I leave this because it is a more general issue. And within the framework, however, the government could take positive steps, as was done by other countries and other governments. Thirdly, the government has avoided any kind of transparency - and our rapporteur, Alexis Haritsis, also stressed it - and genuine consultation, because she wanted to share the resources in her own way with strong and 'logue'. You underestimate, Minister, the value of transparency not only in terms of democracy, but also in terms of efficiency. If societal bodies - productive, social, scientific and research bodies - were informed of the project, its resources and potential, there would be a greater concern about their best use, but that was not the case. I tried to understand exactly how the key issues were allocated. Was it written and heard that there was a meeting under Mr Mitsotakis - he says - with the participation of a small number of entrepreneurs - seven businessmen, nine businessmen? - and that's where the main deal took place. Was there really such a meeting, Minister? Are you confirming it or denying it? And if it happened, how much money did they get into the table? And were they unanimous decisions, or are we also going to have judicial or other doubts in the future? Is that how the government perceives planning? Fourthly, there is no doubt that the Government is facing the Recovery Fund as a spoil of power and uses it as a means of restructuring to the detriment of the strong, believing that this will improve exports and so on, to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises, forgetting that the large companies were once small and because they have been strengthened as small enterprises, they have become large. Furthermore, the government's plan does not guarantee from anywhere - I did not see anything - the prevention of overpricing and waste. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President, if I may. The government shows as something modern and effective that it is instructing banks to manage the funds in the form of loans, on the loan side of the programme. But how do the banks work? How do you imagine the banks will work? Or rather how did the banks already operate with TPIX I, TPIX II and the loans received from the Development Bank? As you know, banks are doing what they do first, they are giving their worthy customers first, to keep them as clients. Secondly, they give selectively selected overdue customers to get their loans back. Do you have any filters, any guarantee that this isn't happening now? Because, of course, you could do what Portugal did, put the Development Bank as the first phase of distribution and control, and also, you could then put certain indicators, some criteria, some filters, to avoid what I am sure will happen to you. And because I believe that this is all because you want to avoid control, I would like to assure you that the check will eventually take place. If you do not adopt the proposal made by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance through his rapporteur - that we have proposed it since last year - a committee of intergroups, a observatory, then all I have to say is that control will be carried out even afterward by a new progressive government which will replace your own government of opacity and waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u93	We shall now give the floor to Mr Andriano John from the New Democracy. Wait a minute, Mr. Andriane, get the Step ready. Then Mrs Agerinopoulou, Mr Famelos, Mr Liupis, will be followed and Mr Skeylakakis, Deputy Minister of Finance, will be given the floor. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, this House is called not just to ratify the two conventions referred to in the title, namely the financing contract and the loan contract, but much more and more to ratify both symbolically and essentially the start of a new and optimistic period for both Greece and the European Union. The greatest conscientiousness in times of crisis, such as the one we are dealing with today with the horn pandemic, is that crises are both a risk, but are also an opportunity. But behind this community, there is a great truth: the decisive response to a crisis, the bold and responsible adoption and implementation of all the necessary and mature institutional reforms and individual policies enables not only its transcendence, but also the foundation of the conditions necessary for the development, prosperity and preparation of the next day. It is therefore extremely important that, after the painful experience of the Greek crisis of the last decade which has hardened our society and also the cohesion of the entire European structure, the European Union has now come to the attention of this new challenge of pandemic - and even emphatically - that dynamic and decisive solidarity is a one-way road. And in this development, Greece can be proud that at the initiative of the Greek Prime Minister and the participation of eight more European leaders was proposed in March 2020 to set up a new system of common lending to deal with the consequences of the crisis and build up the next day. It is a proposal that has led to the establishment of the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. We can also be proud that the Greek proposal to make use of this programme was one of the first to be presented and praised by the European institutions and officials for their completeness and its thoroughness. After all, it is no coincidence that Greece will receive the largest GDP aid from the Recovery Facility throughout the European Union, of which EUR 30.5 billion, of which EUR 17.8 billion concerns non-refundable aid and EUR 12.7 billion, so that, together with the private sector's contribution, the total resources mobilised will exceed EUR 57 billion. This huge development amount, of course, also implies the huge responsibility for its effective exploitation to alleviate the consequences of the pandemic crisis, but also the past long crisis in the past ten years, and for the transition of the country to a new development model, whose positive effects on employment, competitiveness, opportunities for young people, the level of real wages, the quality of everyday life will be spread equally and effectively throughout society. It is extremely important here that the priorities of this great effort should be chosen. The financing of mature projects will strengthen the country's physical and intangible infrastructure, a treaty necessary for competitiveness and the creation of new jobs. Digital transformation, which is already one of the largest bets of today's government, changes day to better life for citizens and businesses, significantly reducing the cost of bureaucracy and transforming the state from a dynamic to a bourgeoisie of every creative effort. The "green" transition underlines the need for Greece to do everything it needs to address the huge global problem of climate change, the consequences of which are increasingly experienced in our country with fires, floods, disasters in primary production, but also in the property of our citizens, while at the same time exploiting one of our largest competitive advantages that is the "green" potential of our country. Investments in the social state, in health, in education and justice in conjunction with the deep and broad reforms that the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis promotes in these critical areas already lead the country to modern times in terms of both the daily life of the citizen and the safeguarding of the conditions for strong and sustainable growth through the attraction of healthy investments by domestic and international capital. Ladies and gentlemen, this great and ambitious programme is an unprecedented opportunity both for Europe and for Greece, for Europe because after the crisis of the last decade, and the United Kingdom's exit from the European family, Europe has the last chance to prove its solidarity and efficiency in guaranteeing a future of prosperity and prosperity for its members, for Greece, for after many and difficult years with this programme, the great opportunity for many decades to move to a new age of development, to ensure a better future for the children and young people of the country, to build a new state that respects the citizen in practice. It is happy that the current government, the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, is at this extremely critical juncture, which guarantees and proves in practice that this valuable opportunity will not be allowed to go missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u95	We shall now give the floor to Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou from New Democracy. Then Mr Famelos will speak, and then SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Tsakalotos will speak. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has been so reflexive for the first time in the face of a crisis. For the first time so quickly to address the pandemic crisis caused by COVID -19 the European Union has taken health measures within a framework of scientific and solidarity, creating a sense of security for the European citizen and for the first time the Union has created so quickly a single mechanism for supporting and rebuilding the economy of its Member States for the post-COVID era -19. With the adoption of a European Rescue and now of the European Recovery and Resilience Fund, Europe is growing up, consolidating and standing up to the expectations of its citizens and giving a decisive response to the economic recession created in the European space and worldwide. Greece is at the forefront of this action by the European Union. In March 2020, on the initiative of our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, and the participation of eight more European leaders, a new system of common European funding was proposed to address the financial consequences of the pandemic and make it possible to build the next day in solid and, above all, equal bases between the Member States. As with the proposal for a digital 'green' certificate for tourism, this proposal by the Greek Prime Minister was heard by the European Union. As a result of this initiative today, we are voting in the Greek Parliament to ratify two conventions between the European Commission and Greece on the one hand, the financing contract and the loan contract, which now have legal effect. These conventions have been signed by our country first among all the Member States. Greece was also one of the first countries to draw up and submit the national plan, Greece 2.0, which was immediately adopted by the European Commission. The immediate approval of the Greek project by the European Commission without doubt, without an asterisk, and the symbolic presence of the President of the European Commission itself, Von der Lyen, in our country, shows that the project "Greece 2.0" presented by the Mitsotakis Government is a project that is correct, modern and fully in harmony with the European Union's priorities for Europe of the future and for Greece of the future. Today is a historic day for Greece. With the ratification of these conventions, our country will receive from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism the highest percentage of GDP in Europe of around EUR 30.5 billion. Overall together with the private sector contribution and the new NSRP are expected to invade our country by 2026 around EUR 57 billion, unprecedented, in order to improve crucially important infrastructure in the country and give a major boost to investment. If both the public and the private sector manage to absorb the funds available from the Resilience and Recovery Fund, we expect an increase in employment in the country by 4% and over eighty thousand new jobs. The main pillars of the project are the ‘green’ ecological transition and digital transformation, as well as other important areas such as health, education, justice and the social protection network. Based on the European 'green' agreement and on a number of important international and European texts, as well as on important studies by scientists and professional bodies, the national plan 'Greece 2.0' provides for significant funding, including for environmental projects and is our key weapon to tackle the climate crisis and create a smart, sustainable, zero-carbon economy in the country. Among the flagship actions expected to be financed are firstly the new national reafforestation plan, actions to protect biodiversity, the establishment of the national system of permanent monitoring of species and habitats, the surveillance of protected species, the flagship monuments protection programme from climate change, the interconnection of our islands, the electricity supply network for electric vehicles, an extensive energy upgrading programme for public and private buildings, actions to address energy poverty, the reform of the country's four-fifths town planning, rural environmental projects, the exploitation of our thermal sources, irrigation and flooding projects, water management and waste management infrastructures, underpinning the electricity network in urban and forest areas to prevent fires and to protect from extreme weather phenomena, major investments in infrastructure and equipment for the prevention and management of natural disasters, as well as a large part of new public health, intellectual and environmental services. With these works, ladies and gentlemen, we shield Greece, we protect Greece, we change the image of our country today. Many of these projects concern both the Prefecture of Ilias and the wider Greek region where important public projects and private investment will be financed. In conclusion, I would like to send a message to all our fellow citizens that this financial package is not for the few as it sounds, it is for everyone, because through its actions all local communities and the everyday lives of all of us will be upgraded, but also because everyone who has a good business plan can with the existing most financial mechanisms available to us with transparency and objective criteria to finance it. The National Plan "Greece 2.0" contains a call to all the productive forces of the place to actively participate in the implementation of the project. With the partnership we will all be able to take advantage of this great opportunity that is being given to our country today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Agerinopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u99	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I am tabling legislative improvements to include the amendment tabled yesterday. In the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ shall be inserted and the articles of the amendment shall be inserted before the third paragraph of Article 3 entitled ‘Performance’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u101	Good. They will be distributed to the parliamentary groups. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Tsakalotos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mr.Boukoros, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr. Lioupis, then Mr. Skeylakakis, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mr. Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of Greek Solutions will be followed. I hope there are no interventions to change in the order that has been announced. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To tell you the truth, listening to Mr. Dogsky for the legislators, I was afraid, Mr. Deputy, that amendments would be introduced as they entered the government yesterday and we could not stop until 11 o'clock at night to vote on amendments from the Ministries. But let us stay in the debate on the Recovery Fund, which we believe needs to be made serious. I have already heard my dear colleague from the Ilias Prefecture and the chairman of the Committee on the Environment say that the Recovery Fund is for everyone. A question has been raised to all of us who have followed the very short and rapid process: If the Recovery Fund is for everyone, why did the Government choose not to call to the House? Why did he choose not to be detailed in committee? Why didn't the Recovery Fund, first of all, show the producer bodies, at some development conferences, in a public dialogue process? If, on the other hand, it is transparent - why did I hear that in place - why did it not come to the House? Why is it that thousands of pages are in English and we need to find them in the Annex of a link to a site? Why was additional material that had not come either from one's mistake or from one's choice? So the Recovery Fund as the Mitsotakis government makes it for Greece is not for everyone and is not transparent. It has become clear that there is a problem of consultation and transparency. Why did we have to look for the European Commission's posts to find out what Mr. Skokakis had submitted? Mr. Skulakakis had not answered. He has not told us why the Greek Parliament and the Greek society had to look for the posts of the European Commission and look to find the last minute on the Internet what changes he intends to make. I'll see you here today. And all of this - I want to say because I heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy, he said something that is not true, Mr Rousopoulos - when the previous governance of SYRIZA had ensured in the country a development plan, the GRUWTH STROTEGY, with an update in 2019, with the approval of the institutions, with the climate strategy in place, had ensured a rehabilitation from the memorandums, had ensured a reserve and a series of major modernisation reforms that helped Greece in its sustainability in European and global competition, which this government has frozen. So you've had a legacy, and you're ruining it. Why is this not a debate? First of all, because the New Democracy which we all have does not have the same democratic concerns. It considers its State property and considers that it can decide and order. The second is that if you have transparency, you cannot take care of the "mothers", we know that, unfortunately, we have learned with the bankruptcy of the Greek state quite recently. That is why you do not want a development plan. But you have a plan. The plan is to take care of the "locals", to help the very large and possibly parasitic government budget economic models get more from the state either money or money and become bigger and the poor become poorer. This has been formulated in writing by Mr. Skokakis. But it is also deeply unscientific, because you have no design as envisaged by the global organizations. And the UN has said so by the 'LOCAL AGENDA' project and by the objectives of sustainable development. It's printed and scientific. You, however, deny it, because at the moment you have not even chosen which branches have priority, the economic sectors are prioritised, which social groups want support. You haven't said that. That is why you do not want to have a presence of social actors, so you do not want to mobilise entrepreneurship. Otherwise, you'd have her involved in the design. And within all of this you are creating serious reactionary reforms. That's your plan. I want to be honest, to speak clearly. We searched through the pillars that are the annexes to "Greece 2.0" and found: Water Regulatory Authority, Waste Regulatory Authority. That's not what you told us in April. You hid them from us. We've been looking for them, and we've found them now. It is not even in the texts that we have here. What for? The Water Regulatory Authority is something that the debate with the Institutions we had until 2015, 2016 and why it was intended to privatise water services. In the medium term, you have revenues from the sale of EIF-EEATH and has already announced the Secretary-General of Waste that you are planning privatization as well as JHA. Have you informed the JHA that you will privatize them? Have you told the municipalities that you will privatize the water? Why do you do a Water Regulatory Authority while abolishing the Special Secretariat for Waters? Waste Regulatory Authority: What does a waste regulator mean and why does it need? To manage privatised waste management facilities? And privatized waste management? So you're gonna sell waste management too? What else do you have in the secret documentaries of the Recovery Fund? A new special RES account. What is this special RES account, and we already have an account that Mr Hatzidakis has bankrupt, while he has been given surplus from our own government? Does it mean a new rejoicing to consumers? And why would there be a second account after we already have one? And why did you start this liberalisation of the market in renewable energy sources that led to intense conflicts throughout the region, the blue regional authorities sending letters to Mr Screka that they refuse the projects, which are necessary for the green transition, but which are done without a plan. The result is to start putting the guarantee, a cutter in the process of this green transition, and what is happening on the energy market? Manipulation of energy prices denounces industry, shamefully denounces consumers and Greece is the first at a wholesale price of energy in Europe. It has reached up to 130 euros, now in July. From 5 August we have been informed that this liberalisation of energy - it is your transition - will lead to an increase with a wholesale price clause in PPC. How much will that increase be? Will the Greek economy stand it? There are already serious contradictions. So you see that you have a plan, only that this project is at the expense of the interests of both the Greek economy and the Greek society. And there is another big problem, which I must say, in planning. Because you have made a shopping list, i.e. a list of markets, practically Mr. Skoplakis works as follows: collects what suggestions the market has and those you want to chat, puts them on a list - there is no beginning and end, programming, hierarchy - and from there and after the public works as a grouper, that is, sharing. Whether he shares property or distributes funds, distributes infrastructure, or distributes new investments to his own, the system of authority of Maximos, but not to anyone else. And how does this deficit look? From the fact that there is no regional dimension in the plan. For example - and I will close with that, Mr President - Thessaloniki. Thessaloniki is fully absent from the design of the New Democracy Recovery Fund. On the contrary, in Thessaloniki serious development projects, launched by the government of SYRIZA, have been frozen. Example: Transit Centre. As here in Triasio, the transit centre went on and on and on, it also went there to the Gonos camp in the west of the city, which we need to upgrade that area and environmentally and infrastructure and work. He's stopping the transit centre. What does that mean? It means that the extroversion and functionality of the port of Thessaloniki and the open view of the port of Thessaloniki to the Balkans, that is to say, the city as planned by the government of SYRIZA, as a transit, energy and commercial hub of the Balkans, is cancelled. Not only are large projects planned by the SYRIZA government, but we learn that even the railway connection study of the port with the rest of the rail network is stopped, cancelled, entrusted to our Government. So the tools of economic and development that we had already planned, which had an environmental dimension, are also limited, for example, to rail connections, for example, and which were also developmental with the eye in the Balkans, obviously also making use of the Ambassadors' agreement. There is no provision for financing, for investment, for the local market, for the creation of new jobs, for the 'green' transition, for climate neutrality. On the contrary, we learn that waste is being privatised, the water is being privatised, the regional road is privatised, which, in order to be built, is also 70 acres from the Shah Soo, which was also protected and resurrected. So that is the reason of the government: a scopeping list and the government to manage financing as a private grouper, to share them. But Greece stays behind. It stays behind in development, remains behind in social cohesion. And finally this plan - which is real but unfair, this draft of the government exists, but it is unfair - to let Greece stay back to competition on the next day of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u103	Shut up, Mr. Felmele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u104	As you can see - and I am closing down, Mr President - the reason why we are asking for this debate to be taken is that we need scientific tools in, that the need for climate change and climate neutrality come in, that all this should be done with democracy and justice. Unfortunately, the New Democracy leaves us behind and with regard to the new elements of global competition and the great challenges facing our lives, but it leaves us behind in terms of democracy and justice. Because in the economy there is a question of democracy and justice. And the New Democracy has chosen the unjust side of the economy, but also the least democratic, the non-transparent management of resources. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u105	We shall now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsakalotos. Then, as we said, the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Bukkokoros, will speak. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering my key address, I would like to thank Mr Stavoura for quoted the figures he achieved for reducing poverty by four points, material deprivation by eight points, reducing disparities in historically low levels, because of course the figures he gave concern the years 2015-2019. This is shown in the table by Alexis Haritsis, it does not appear in the table tabled by Mr. Stakoras, but you will see that it expressly says that we are talking about figures in 2019. It is as if I had invited Mr. Stoura to a table in Preveza that I was going to cook, and I would have called bodies, I would have taken specialities, tsalafouts from Arta, tomatoes early from Preveza, across the Bergadi feta, I would have cooked bars and gossips from the Ambrose, I would have taken a fisherman - because I know that in Lamia the fish arrives to the fisherman, he has no more - and I would ask Mr. Stakouras to help me, to show that he is a humble man, to bring them to the dishes and he'd come to say "it's something I and Mr. Tsakalotos. Me and Euclid prepared you these foods." I fear that my example may be a little worse, that Mr Stagiras did not understand my directive, just to take the food to the table, put it in the oven and land it. Or they may be worse, because later they can stalk them. So I thank him very much, and I will come back to dryness and the danger of carving some food. The big picture is what you say and what we say about what has changed in the world after 2009. That should have been the basis: Has something changed, has nothing changed? You know, in every crisis of capitalism, "FINANCIAL TIMES" always has the title "We are all now Kenyans". All those who told us - Mr. Skylakakis will remember why he is one of the first - that the state cannot intervene, that the state cannot choose investment, that in an austerity, even dry, tight fiscal policy can have expansionist economic policies, suddenly when it comes to their economies in a crisis they find that the state can have a role. And now the state has a role to play in almost all economies, not only on economic issues, but also on health and climate change. The big issue for the next ten years is how deep this change will be, how radically we will leave the model you have supported - and unfortunately you have also supported, Mr Kamine, and your space for more than it should be - how great this change will be, how radical this change will be. Because of the change, Mr Stavrou is right, and I have said it - I do not know why he said that we insist that there will be no growth, I said it two months ago that it is obvious that there will be growth - because of the change in policy, so we do not have the results that we had in 2009 and then in Europe. And we do not have the results that have been historically low in both America and Europe from all the other great declines. So if you see the recovery after 2010, Mr. Dogsakis, you will see that it was much worse to recover from previous '70 crises, '29 and go by saying. So there's gonna be a recovery. The big question is not, therefore, whether we will have 3.6% or 4% when the income has fallen so much, it has a natural recovery in the economy, but the question is how sustainable and how fair it will be, how much it will keep quality elements. And the big question I will ask you, as will the parliamentary representative because he will be the next speaker, is this. If I asked you what was caused by the model before 2009 either in Europe or in Greece, what would you say? What do you think, with all this story that is much worse for Greece than for other countries, what lessons did you learn from this whole story? Don't tell me now about the knowledge economy or the major technological challenges. I have heard these since 1996, since Mr Simitis' first government, from these clichés that we are 'in the knowledge economy', that there are new technologies. Tell me practically what you've changed, what has to change in this economy. Not to go to the pre-2009 season. Because you know that before 2009 we had growth and we saw the results. Has it changed that development should become the property of society itself? As Mr Drasakis said very well before me, participation, consultation with bodies, with local authorities, is not only a question of democracy - it is also a question of democracy - but it is also a question of efficiency. Is that what's changed? Does it seem from the Recovery Fund how you approach, that you have changed to it? Do you think, in order to go to another economic model, that the first thing at least is to discuss with society, with the institutions - with the trade unions, I would say that you will not care about movements - but, anyway, with some and for the sake of effectiveness? Is that what's changed? It doesn't seem. It does not appear either from Mr Stavoura's speech or from Mr. Skylakakis' speech the other day in the House. I do not know if you answer Mr. Haritsis for the difference between you and Mr. Draghi, who you cannot say has a natural momentum towards leftism, but he has tabled the programme to the House before going to the Com munity. Is your model better or Mr Draghi's model? Am I entitled to ask that? Does this question mean anything, or do you think you can go on with the final state without asking? Second question: Something has changed since 2009 that you think we should look into about inequality. That's why I started with what Mr Stavros said at the beginning. Because Mr Roussopoulos is also coming, I will also ask Mr Roussopoulos: What stress do you have on inequalities? So, if I asked you across the field of economic - social policy before 2009, inequality for you is a dominant issue? Are you aware of the depth of inequality? Are you concerned? If you were concerned, I would not have the right to say " put some target on Gini, put someone for his income above 6% with less than 6%". Where does it seem you're interested in inequality? From what Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou said? So, really, why do you pass this bill on the job? Do you think this working bill will help inequality in wages? With the increase, the increase you make in minimum wages, will this affect inequality? The high trend before 2009, the compression of the labour market share and the increase in the share of capital can be seen with this Recovery Fund and all around it? I'm talking about the job, 'cause you put it in that that's one of the big reforms. But where does it turn out that you are interested in social inequality in wages? Mr Famelos just said to you: 'Where does it turn out that you are interested in another inequality, regional inequality?' Where does it turn out that you have a stress, as all economic and social scientists have been nervous over the past twenty years, about the inequalities they have created and the political consequences of these regional inequalities? In Britain - north and south - and Brexit, London pole of economic finance. Nothing in the north. If you want to understand political developments in Britain over the last ten to fifteen years, look at regional disparities. In France, not north - south, but east and west, with some development poles in Paris, Toulouse and some other cities. If you're a worker or a worker, you're middle-aged in a small town, where there's no development pole, you're nowhere, no future. Is the Recovery Fund facing this? Is it something you can tell me 'yes, are you right, Euclid, do we understand that this is a problem and we are dealing with this here'? Let's go to the small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't understand. I understand that your answer is that the banks will solve it, because it cannot be a serious economist to accept that they will go to unsustainable businesses. I hope I do not mislead your explanation, to say very well the argument you say, not to twist it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm going to take some of my dentistry, Mr. President. But it is obvious that in a crisis - how much more so the Greek crisis, which began in 2010, did not start with the pandemic - there will be many businesses whose capital is causing a problem of sustainability. Therefore, a strategy that this is facing with funding, but also with specific tools - Mr Drasakis spoke very much - I am not obliged to repeat the arguments - like the Investment Bank, like microcredits. They need help from businesses. Some may indeed not be viable, but from what you say they are unsustainable, some with the help of not only of funding, of marketing, of research, of how they can make mergers, they can be sustainable. Where is this at the Recovery Fund, your strategy? Do you know that the IMF has consulted in recent months and has told how great a risk it is that the Member States give it money to large and few businesses? Notes the IMF: "And we not only mean big techs, i.e. "AMAZON", Facebook etc. We say to all companies 'you choose the big companies'. The IMF says that, not SYRIZA. And he says that this is at the expense of both innovation and investment. So he says it for the Member States, he says it for you too, that if we go to a few ordinary businesses we will not have the innovation and the investments they need. This figures show that in the last ten years, after 2009 and public and private investment as a percentage of GDP have been historically low with this model that we want to change. I don't even understand if you want to change it or have other priorities. It is not possible with what I said to give 80-90 million for research and development. You can't do that. It is not for health to give 1.4 billion for six years, or about 200 million, if we divide it. You do not show that you understood something changed after 2009 and after 2019. And the basic thing that has changed is that we need planning. We need planning and programme, we need priorities too. We are making horizontal reductions in taxes or horizontal financing, and we are not dealing with where the funding will go, how they will go to specific resources. Obviously, you have some priorities too. Besides, you had template that said where the money should go. I shall conclude, Mr President. For us - and because the representative of the JRC is here - you start with the inequality of all kinds. The JRC parliamentary representative will tell me that inequalities are created by capitalism and are absolutely right. As long as there is capitalism, there will always be inequality, but a difference. Firstly, we know that arrangements and different architectures can change the level of inequalities and, secondly, that when there are fewer inequalities, the world of work and the middle layers are strengthened and they can widen the framework of economic policy. That is why I say that the progressive forces in this country, starting with all kinds of inequalities - and I have not talked about all of them, I have not talked about wealth, I have not talked about access to social goods - starting with it, you build and design an alternative economic model, an economic model that will begin to tackle inequalities, widen the scope of potential and bring about more sustainable and fairer growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, please, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to give some direct answers and I will tell them in my speech, Mr Parliamentary Representative, of the SYRIZA. The first is that in times of crisis we are all quintines, in the sense of increasing active demand. But in a recovery period, Kanes said we should get together. In other words, we need to prepare for the next crisis, because if the state spends much more than it has in both the period of crisis and the recovery period, then it suffers what we have suffered. As regards what we learned from the model and because you made a reference to political developments in Britain, I would like you to ask - which is very familiar with you - what real political developments are in Britain, what happened to your model in Britain. It was unfortunate what happened to your economic model in Britain and indeed to many elections. Us, our model is very simple: Extroversion, "white" economy, low taxation, increased productivity. And because you said about inequalities, the main problem of workers, when they have to negotiate on inequalities, is low productivity. Because when they have low productivity, they have low negotiating capacity and do you know what the country was in 2019 with lower productivity in Europe? I got it here. It's from MODY'S, I don't think you have any objection to their credibility. Greece, lately. This fundamental problem that, in order for the worker to have a trading capacity, he must also have a corresponding productivity, which means that investment is the key to this project. This plan, you rightly said the investments were reduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u111	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u113	I'll tell you in your speech. After all, it is also the parliamentary representative after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u114	I'm done with this. I say that you rightly said that the investments fell after the crisis. Greece, however, has had half of the European average for 10 years in the aftermath of the crisis. That is our fundamental problem. I conclude, in order not to trouble the President, by saying that I, too, dream of making a chicken with garlic in the oven with white pasta and a nice Greek cheese and the garlic is made of hazelnut and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it much more with successes of Greece in the coming years and not with failures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Dog, for Kanes, that's what you call it. But he wouldn't say, as you can imagine, Kanes in a country with 17% unemployment that now is the time to tighten up. Can you imagine the circumstances are good now? Is that what you told us? Keynes said that when you've reached full-time, then you don't need expansive budgetary policies. Is that what you're telling us? That we're in full employment? That's not what you're telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u118	He was talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u119	So, please don't interpret Kanes, who I'm not a Kenyan, I don't need to support this, but to know what the man was saying. He said that in full employment there is no need for expansion policies. When you get us to full employment - I will not live then - then you can think about whether we need a change of path. And one last thing. You proved you don't want to change anything. You've told us all the ideas I've heard since 1996. But, everybody! That first we need to increase productivity, etc. All of them! Nothing has changed. It's like I hear a Trickle-down diaspora. Nothing has changed. And you didn't say anything about real inequality. Really, I'm lifting my hands up! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u120	He is now the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Boukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, today's debate is important. It is time that Mr Tsakalotos also opened us up, but the packages you described, Mr SYRIZA's Parliamentary Representative, do not want too much heat in the summer months and so they are not in danger of being carved. It's cool, it's consumed that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u122	Because if they're hot...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u123	I would say, therefore, that you are making a criticism of all the warrings of the opposition that there has been no consultation today, and today that the House has the opportunity, even now that the bill has been tabled, we have not heard any specific proposal on what would change in this draft. Because I can't imagine that you're making a claim for coexistence. The institutional role of each individual is clear and the Government will implement what has been elected through the Recovery Plan. You've suddenly become fans of Mr. Mario Draghi. When he was a banker, you blamed him. Now, as governor, you praise him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u124	Hey, you've put the cubit down, what can we do, it's our fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u125	We say you're worse than Draghi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u126	Of course, I'd say you didn't say anything about that. Theoretically approaches. Some speakers from the left and the extreme left, and also the extreme right, dared to speak while presenting a national recovery plan for a fifth memorandum. Why is it not fifth, ladies and gentlemen? Because in the memoranda others have proposed, and we have adopted it here, I remind you, because you have also voted for the third memorandum, and we are proposing and others adopt it. In fact, they praised the plan. This is the warning difference, therefore, which shows that this is a national recovery plan. I did not, however, expect historical officials from the Officerial Response to come here to this Step and unleash unscrupulous accusations, allegedly asking questions and effectively sludgeing the fan that they gathered seven, eight, nine entrepreneurs and did the share. These novels, when they are part of the political dialogue, on the one hand they downgrade this political dialogue and, on such important issues, as we admit, on the other hand demonstrate the misfortune of arguments on the part of Officerial Response. Where, as the honourable Vice-President of SYRIZA's government's prime minister, he comes to this step and talks about seven, eight, nine businessmen who shared this plan? You also blamed us for regional disparities, for a lack of regional approach to issues. But when did you blame us, Mr. Haritsi? Today, when it was adopted first of all by all European NSRP projects, the Greek NSRP, which is increased by EUR 3.2 billion and the Greek regions for the first time will receive EUR eight billion and the whole of the NSRP is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises and to boost its competitiveness? Won't the NSRF develop at the same time? The 26.3 billion that is about equal and for an equal period of time as well as the recovery and resilience plan? Half-truths? I would also say to you that you are right to talk about how we managed the financial instruments in the past, because in fact - I had the opportunity and wrote it in an article in the "PONTIKI" today - there were much more financial instruments in the past. If you see it cumulatively, over a period of forty years, of course, it was much more, multiple of the Resistance and Recovery Plan. Did all this money go away? Oh, no. That's half the truth again. Greece has met infrastructure which had not met during the 200 years of its history, national road networks, hospitals, ports, university institutions. I can always list. There have also been unnecessarily deeds. There have been mistreateds, too. There have been delays. There have been overcompensations. Of course, it's all happened. However, the infrastructure has remained. Perhaps these financial instruments did not succeed - and that is where our failure lies - in giving the economy and the country the best they should. We agree on that. This plan, however, is really different. It is different why consultation with the classic concept of the term, as you have tabled it here today, may have been missed, but there has been a well-established scientific potential that, if you want, represents many tendencies in the university community, knowledge and society, and I would therefore say that it has tabled a framework - it has not decided what the framework will be - proposals. And the government, the lawfulness of the country, the elected, in the direction in which it has committed itself to the Greek people and was passed in July 2019, to incorporate these proposals and make them a National Reconstruction Plan. You come in and ask for a parliamentary committee, an observatory. What's that? Has any parliamentary institution been abolished? Do you not have the opportunity to ask topical questions and simple questions at the level of the Chiefs of Justice to consider the whole time how the Government manages the development package? That is why this package should become a parliamentary committee and not be a new ESDP of approximately equal value.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u127	That's why there's nothing. There is a Monitoring Committee for the ESRB.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u128	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u129	The ESDP monitoring committee is not a committee proposed today for the Reconstruction Fund. Another thing you're suggesting here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u130	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Haritsis, none of what you're saying is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u132	However, I, Mr Haritsis, have not heard you go along with the NRP monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u133	Why so much tension against accountability and against transparency?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u134	No tension, Mr. Haritsi. You know, however, the parliamentary representative of the government's party also has the power to answer the accusations heard in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u135	It was a proposition, no charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no. You spoke of opacity...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u137	Come on. There will be no dialogue. Mr. Haritsis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u138	You spoke of opaqueness and I regret that you make me come back and say that the former vice-president of your government, the top and historian, spoke of seven - eight entrepreneurs - on a rhetorical question or if you want to take a question without being accompanied by evidence from this one Step - who shared it. So what kind of proposals are those that move in such a political environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u139	We have the evidence, Mr. Buquoir. In my speech, I will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u140	The evidence is as you see it, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u141	Posted in the paper...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u142	How you define pro-government sites is about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Buquoir, don't answer each of the colleagues. Mr Alexiadis, please don't interfere. Your turn to speak. You're on the list. You'll talk and say what you want to say. Keep going, Mr. Buquoir. Do not address specific Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u144	The level of my arguments does not give rise to such a dialogue, nor do I insult anyone with my arguments. From there on, I really do not understand where you disagree with the lack of a regional approach. What do you want us to do fountains with the National Reconstruction Plan or small projects that do not offer any added value to the national economy? Two infrastructure projects, in the classic sense, enter the Reconstruction Fund. These are the N65 and its completion and the North Axis of Crete. If, then, the Patras - Tower connection is added, we have completed the country's national road network. And we must say that these projects that completed the country's national road network and made Greece from a typical Balkan country to a computation, despite its problems, of South Europe's strength, are almost 100% projects co-financed by European funds. Of course, they did not leave the footprint that we would all want, nor did they give the added value that we would all want, but it is half true that nothing was done with all the previous financial instruments. We didn't do what could be done. That's the reality. But what do you disagree with the National Recovery and Reconstruction Plan, from the forecasts, from the four axes? I didn't hear anything different. Do you disagree with the digital transformation? Do you disagree with the work in the green economy? So it's bad that sixty thousand acres in western Macedonia, where the mining area was, will be turned into a cultivable land? Is that bad for the transition of Western Macedonia to the post-living era? Is it wrong that there will be green economy projects when we talk about the environment and will be financed, that there will be charging networks? The electricity interconnection networks and their integration for our islands do not really restrict inequalities, as do access to research, technology and tourism? Like water saving projects. How does the Qualified Opposition come here and says that the creation of a Water Management Committee prejudges the sale of water? Is that what it's based on? Where is this conclusion to be presumed to be largely terrorist? Does the Qualifying Opposition not know that, on the one hand, while the National Recovery Plan includes water saving projects, better water management and, at the same time, this committee is also being set up, why should there be central management, there must be a direction in water management? Do you not know that Greece is the 20th most affected land of the world than water shortages? Do we have to stand still, leave things as they are today and get water lost in the seas? Don't we need small dams? I remember when you expressed your opposition - wrong, in my view - to Acheloos, you were talking about small dams and the savings of water resources. The National Reconstruction Plan provides for such projects for agriculture. What is it that you disagree with? You disagree with the training of workers, workers, when in Europe the average worker during his career is changing three times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also use my dentistry, Mr President. You disagree with the training funds, with the expectations of creating two hundred thousand jobs. What exactly do you disagree with? I didn't hear anything specific. I didn't hear anything specific at all. We differ in theory, so you sit on these benches and we sit on the other benches. In both ideology and theory, we differ. But here is the practical thing. There is some money claimed by the country, which was shared by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on this initiative of the eight European leaders in order to secure these resources and this new way of financing. Wholesale 19 billion is grant, 12 billion is a favourable loan. I would expect opposition parties to come and say badly you put digital transformation or put some money into digital transformation. You need to put more. What, should we have said, nice words and impressive words? I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that today's debate is indeed important and I think in depth that all the political forces in the country want to make use of this new financial instrument. That is not what we are talking about today and we are ratifying this convention here. It's about the next generations. Because, indeed, targeting in these areas are not projects in the classic sense of the term. They are actions that aspire to change the country's economic environment and modernise it so that convergence with other European countries takes place more quickly. Because we all know that both the fourth industrial revolution and the new technologies and the green economy orientation are fields that, even if you are a little behind the starting point like our country, you can compete when you are organised and have prepared good programmes on equal terms for others that are prior to the classic sectors of the economy. That's well known. And be a little player, the season offers opportunities. So this was done with this plan. That is why infrastructure is lacking in the classic concept of the term, which is also missing in the other European programmes, since it needs to adapt the economic environment of both Greece and Europe to the needs of the new era. That's what ambitions the plan. Neither the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Skeylakakis nor Mr. Stakoras, said that 31 billion, with the leverage of 57 to 60 billion, or even if we added the NSRF as much as 26 billion, the 100 billion can solve all the structural problems of the country and all the problems inherited by the last economic crisis and the pandemic crisis. However, when the government comes and commits, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it says that it will now be a strict condition that for each euro subsidy it should also come out of the fund, respectively, the subsidy that seems to be changing. We are leaving the easy money and overpricing and all that we have experienced in the previous financial instruments. Isn't that a warning difference? Because if we do not believe in our country and if the Greeks who will be financed by this fund do not invest, how do we convince foreign investors that Greece is indeed an investment destination? This is a warning difference along with the targeting in the peak areas to which I referred. And this difference hopes that it will work and become the steam engine or, if you like, a new starter, so that not only will it lever the money. It is, of course, a precondition - and I am sorry to say this - that the public administration in this strategy must also follow, Mr President - that it does not constantly pursue the problem and seek to find a solution, not a solution, particularly to the question of investment, so as to make use of this money and, apart from the leverage to stimulate other foreign direct investment. This is a solution to the problem, because expansionary policies are very good, especially in times of crisis, as long as you also have the relevant reserve, because when you go on lending, you cannot always be sure that the conditions will be favourable and we all know what happens when the conditions cease to be favourable. I would urge you to vote in favour of the draft because, on the one hand, I have not seen any major and substantial differences and, on the other, the use of this financial instrument does not concern the current political forces, it concerns the future generations of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u145	We continue with the next speaker, who is Mr Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u146	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u147	What exactly do you want, Mr. Haritsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u148	I'll answer Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u149	We're not doing that now. What do you want to answer? You will have the ability to do so in your dentistry. At that time you will respond, if you wish, to all the issues that have been raised. You have the floor, Mr. Lippi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an important step is taking today to get Greece into a new era, at the time of opportunities and changes. We are deciding to ratify two conventions, one financing agreement and a loan agreement between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic. It is one of the cases where ratification is not a formal process, but the beginning of a new capital for the Greek economy and society. When the health crisis was just beginning, our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, along with eight European counterparts, expressed the public for the first time the need to establish a European mechanism for lending and supporting the economy. This proposal has become reality and Greece will be strengthened by the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism with a share of its GDP, which is the largest in Europe: EUR 17.8 billion of grants, EUR 12.7 billion of loans, while taking into account the money provided by the private sector, a total of EUR 57 billion will be used in the real economy. All this, in addition to the ESDP 2021-2027 billion just approved yesterday - the first in Europe - shows the readiness and planning of this government. And, of course, we have the Antonis Tritsis programme. This is a historic effort, since it is the largest mobilisation of investment resources ever carried out in Greece. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" is a detailed and coherent programme that the Greek Government has quickly submitted to the European institutions - second in Europe - showing a serious commitment and planning with a hundred six investments, sixty-eight reforms, based on the four well-known pillars: firstly, the green transition by adopting policies to limit carbon dioxide emissions, increasing renewable energy sources, secondly, digital transformation, third, employment, skills and social cohesion and, fourthly, private investments and the transformation of the economy. The main principle of the project is that anyone who receives money from the fund must invest own funds. In this way, the total investment is increasing even further, while at the same time each beneficiary has to deal intensively with the effectiveness of the investment, as he takes the risk of losing not only European funding but also his own funds. The loan contract includes the conditions, availability of the loan up to 31/12-2026, our country's obligation to carry out checks to ensure compliance with the rules on the use of funding. These European funds will be used to make use of material, infrastructure and investment projects that will bring about a huge change in the image of our country, namely, electricity and digital interconnection of the islands, the under-utilisation of electricity grids, the promotion of electricity supply in urban transport and the grant of electricity taxi, the creation of more than eight thousand charging points across the country, large irrigation and flooding projects, waste management on the basis of the cyclical economy, and water saving actions, digital transformation of the State starting with the digitisation of large volumes of public sector data in justice, town planning and other, digital transformation of education, upgrading of research and innovation, digitalisation of the State starting with the digitalisation of public sector data in the justice, town planning and other, digital transformation of education, strengthening of research and innovation in the university, digitalisation of the education and health of the patient, And the concept of counter-population that these new resources do not concern small and medium-sized enterprises is, in my opinion, wrong, because the overall transformation of the economy, the creation of thousands of new jobs, the creation of a friendly investment environment are all factors which lead to an improvement in the economic indicators and thus the whole economy. The expected permanent GDP growth by 7% and the new two hundred thousand permanent jobs give a new outlook throughout the economy in the long term, in a twenty-year period, and provided that the entire reform programme is implemented, Greek GDP is expected to increase by 18%. Every link of the economy, every activity is interconnected with the others and therefore all zeros will benefit from the funds they receive. In any case, the plan provides for EUR 1.5 billion specifically for support for small and medium-sized enterprises. All these figures which are being heard today in plenary are not insignificant at all. They will change the lives of the Greeks and the prospects of the whole country. The Prime Minister is committed to making full use of the resources and keeping the plan. However, there is also something more essential in this whole debate. It is what is described in the National Programme "Greece 2.0" which concerns our vision of an open, democratic and sustainable society, namely social coexistence and interaction on terms of greater and more substantial transparency thanks to the public sector's open data policy. It is the overall change in the way Europe is facing our country, in the way the potential of the Greek economy is now reflected and in the fact that we are all determined not to leave another opportunity unexploited. It is possible that our last chance to correct the mistakes of the past and build a better future for the younger generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. We will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Dollakis. The Greek Parliamentary Representative Mr Heitas, and then Mr Karasmanis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, and Mr Sarakiotis, with whom the second cycle of speakers will be closed, will follow. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a highly successful and multi-monthly negotiation, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, "Greece 2.0", a project that will play a catalytic role in the recovery and development of our national economy over the next few years. The speed and effectiveness of the negotiation prove to be unblemished by the fact that we are the first to sign an agreement with the Commission and certainly the first - possibly the first - who will get money, probably next Friday. The first 4 billion euros will probably come next Friday. And this is a significant development because it gives the signal to the markets and to everyone that Greece is moving forward. The EUR 31.5 billion that comes, can change and will change Greece. Together with the 12.7 billion loans will mobilise double the investment funds of 60 billion for the benefit of the entire Greek society and will be the largest leverage of investment resources in the history of the country. I would like here to mention a report by OXFORD ECONOMICS on the impact of our plan, 'Greece 2.0', on the economy. This report - which I shall be tabling in the Minutes too - states that Greece takes most of the other European countries with a large difference, 20% of GDP compared to 15%. The next one is Romania and Croatia - close to 15% - and then Italy. It also says that Greece, which has the most ambitious project in terms of expenditure, will also have the most important increase in GDP in relation to any other European country, and will also have the most important increase in employment than in any other European country. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skeylakakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the reality and this is confirmed by our calculations, but also by the calculations of many other international bodies. What does the Opposition say to us? And I'll try briefly to answer what he says. The first thing he tells us is that we have a bad plan. And here we are asking ourselves: if we have a bad plan, what happened to ECONOMIST, BLOOMBERG, FINANCIAL TIMES, the Europeans? A fly stinged them and they say we have a good plan? And to be more specific, I am reading from the FINANCIAL TIMES reports from representatives - not named - of the Commission: "The Greek project is one of the best we've seen so far," says European Commission official. "The project, based on the strategy of the Nobelist Christoforos Pissaridis, was one of the most coherent projects submitted by any other Member State," says FINANCIAL TIMES. Then the Irish President of the Eurogroup comes out, who has nothing to do with us, who says so, that they are one of the best projects. Then comes the President of the European Commission, Mrs Fon der Lyen, here in Greece, and what does she say to us? I am going to read to you - concisely translate - what he says to us: 'After excellent cooperation, which was excellent between the Commission and the Greek authorities, we have a project designed in Greece that will trigger growth and there is no doubt that it will deeply transform the Greek economy'. And it ends by saying: "I am deeply convinced that this plan will make Greece come out of this period stronger than any other era." That is what the President of the Commission tells us. And we come to see what they say - because politicians can always have other things in our minds, against citizens - the markets, the 'thermometer', what they say, let's say, 'MODY'S', one of the major rating companies. It says, "Greece will see the biggest increase, compared to any other southern country in GDP." And it has here its own calculations which lead to the conclusion that we will have an increase in GDP - with the largest for Greece and after Portugal - lower deficits, lower debt burden and lower financing costs. And it ends with the words: "The reforms that are taking place in Greece have already brought concrete progress in the quality of the institutions and in the effectiveness of governance, and this is reflected in the rapid submission and overall inclusiveness of Greece's national recovery and resilience plan." That is what MODY'S tells us. Now we're going to the second complaint of counterpopulation, if it's for a few or a lot. I'm going to ask a few questions here, putting some of the actions of the project. Today Mr Screkas said about "EXOCONOMOVO", the new "EXOCOMOVO" of the dwellings. We put one billion in here. It concerns households and a significant proportion of energy poverty. Is that for the few or the many? And the ones who do these works, the ones who put the aluminum and make the structures and the masturbations are the few, are the big groups or many? The same program, which is 450 million for small and medium-sized enterprises, is that for the few or the many? Only small and medium-sized ones can get "EXECONOMY" for energy. Is the subjugation that we are going to make in the electricity grids, so as not to burn our woods by the perimeter, is it for the few or for the many? Who lives in these areas, on the edge of the cities? Are the urban plans that will cover the whole country, 250 million, for the few or the many? Is it for three - four large investments or for the whole country, which we only have urban plans at 20% today in the country and will we go with 250 million investment - in studies only - to cover the whole? Electricity Movement of Transport: Urban Electric Buses or Electric Taxi Who are they, the few or the many? Have you ever heard of a big group owner taking a cab? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You can understand, Mr President, that I will need more time. This is the basic bill, after all, that I am in favour of. Reinforcement of water supply networks and large projects for urban waste water in settlements of less than two thousand inhabitants, large investments in irrigation networks involving tens of thousands of farmers, investments in civil protection, so that we can have modern means, modern canters, so that we can deal with fires, do they involve few or many? Are the anti-military projects pertaining to the few or many? Do you know how to flood in the best areas and the most difficult areas of the floods? The state's digital transformation of what are they? Buildings, Land register, justice, EFCA. For the few or the many? Not to mention health investment in all hospitals and health centers, in all classes that will become digital in public schools. Who's going there, the few or the many? I think, therefore, that we should be more reluctant in our criticism of these issues. It will prove, after all, who this project was for. And don't forget, the suburban in West Attica, from the Ano Liosia to the Megaras, for whom are they? We are now going on the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises and loans. First of all, I did not hear from the opposition - and it would be useful to tell us - whether or not they would receive the loans - and I say it to the two largest parties, to Mr Haritsis and Mr Kamine - and how they would use them exactly. That would be very useful to hear, I think it would help the debate. From there on, I heard a lot about the Development Bank. The Development Bank has not itself provided a loan, banks use it to lend loans. The Development Bank will go over the monitoring of loans and - I believe - a very good job, but the difference, in order to understand the philosophy of this loan system, is now very simple: we put money in place, but we want another investor with his own money to assess the project, to assess its reality not on the basis of a number of typical indicators, which are always completed in investment projects, but on the basis of the risk that he himself takes on with his own money, without any guarantee of the public. On the contrary, these loans are 'pari-passu', i.e. we take the same guarantees as banks. That's very important. And where's the difference? At the interest rate, for which there is the amendment, whereby we will actually transfer the European interest rate to those who are borrowing - by the way, we accept the amendment - and the transfer of that interest rate will be calculated as State aid and deducted from any other State aid taken by the company. Here I have heard a lot about whether small and medium-sized enterprises, which will get EUR 1.5 billion from this package and a lot more from the ESRB, because the ESRB is primarily the tool for small and medium-sized enterprises, having access to these loans. The answer is, yes, of course. If they want to invest, and if they can haunt it, they have much better access to these loans, because small and medium-sized enterprises do not find a low loan interest rate. Small and medium-sized enterprises borrow 4%, 5%, 6% and decade-old loans are obviously not borrowed with 6%, it is very difficult to borrow. They're gonna be able to cut half the loan cost. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Could we give it to unworthy businesses? You all know in this Chamber that we could not give loans to unworthy businesses. You all know that, and yet you're criticizing as if we could. All I can justify is the JRC. The JRC tells you "we're out of Europe, we can do whatever we want." All the others, who are, in theory, in favour of Europe in one way or another, should explain to us how we will provide loans without complying with European banking rules. Is that the case? The answer is zero, nothing, nothing. So why are we having this whole conversation? Next item is consultation. Look, we did, as you saw, consultation and we had many bodies, including the Central Association of Chambers, GSE, BSE, GSEVE, SETE, the Hellenic Trade Confederation, the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities and others, to make proposals to us in the first phase. We had the participation of all these bodies and many more in the Committee, through which the effective consultation took place, and we also had a public consultation. But to be honest, the crucial issue here is speed. We could not consult on the recovery plan the way we would do the consultation, for example, for a decade's plan, because in the recovery plan from one point to another, if you do not achieve the targets, you lose the money. It therefore operates complementaryly in the other development plans of the country. And here I enter the other criticism of counterpopulation, which is if it has a regional dimension. It has a regional dimension, complementary to the NRP, which is the main regional projects. Here we have EUR 8 billion for the regions from the ESDP, EUR 8 billion! There is no higher amount in history than I remember - the regions of EUR 8 billion. We have the NSRF, therefore, we have the TRIBIS and it comes in complementarity. What does the recovery plan get? It takes the most mature projects so that we can implement them quickly. What can't he do? It must function as a strategic regional development plan - it acts as a strategic national plan - because, if it were to function as a regional plan, it should include projects that would not have been able to do and we would lose the money. And I'm going to one, two specific issues, which I asked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u153	How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u154	I'll be done in two minutes. I say these two, three in particular, and I'm done. One is what I said the other day, and Mr. Haritsis misunderstood it by whether we want deficits or not. What I said to the committee the other day, Mr Haritsis, is that none of the big parties in the country are consciously proposing the violation of the financial rules of the European Union. You, as part of the financial staff, and Mr Alexiadis and Mr Tsakalots, are very well aware that in your period, after the phase you passed in 2015, which I will not go further, you have complied with the budgetary commitments. In fact, you're overreacting. And I believe that this is good, that the country has ensured - and obviously this also applies to the Change Movement - that most parties are committed in relation to European financial rules. In any case, this plan excludes non-compliance with the rules, so it does not have to do with the level of deficits, but it is about the country which I consider to be positive in complying with the rules. As far as what Mr Drasakis said is concerned, it is obviously completely unrealistic and completely wrong. I won't say any more. As far as what Mr Tsakalotos said about the IMF and large businesses is concerned, I would like to remind you that this government - and that was my initial idea adopted by all the financial staff - gave 8.5 billion of the repayable advance, half of which ended up being non-refundable, which only went 98% to small and medium-sized enterprises and gave huge other sums, which also went to small and medium-sized enterprises. We don't need the IMF's advice to do that. I don't know who wants to get advice from the IMF. We hear it, but we follow our own policy. Let me conclude with a few words on the investment gap and the productive model and the inequalities. The biggest inequality in the country is the inequality of unemployment, the fact that a large part of the population is doomed to unemployment. That's the heaviest inequality. There is also a second inequality of importance, which no one speaks of, which is the inequality between those who pay their taxes and those who evade tax. And this is a heavy inequality in the country, which for some strange reason I do not hear the opposition parties show. This project, as part of the change in the production model, hits both these inequalities. Covering the investment gap and mobilising huge investment resources creates a great deal of increase in labour demand and improving labour productivity, and this will allow wages to increase dramatically, and this will be the biggest intervention in inequality, plus all the rest that we do for the social state, training, health, education, which is obviously included in the project. In relation to the second inequality, which is the inequality between those who pay and those who do not pay their taxes or their insurance contributions, there, both with the digitisation of the state and with the reduction of taxation, we will have a rapid transition from the 'grey' to the 'white' economy and that will also improve the disparities and obviously also the productivity of the country and its development potential. This is the essence of the change in the production model that we are doing. Extrovert, 'white' economy, low taxes, productivity increase. That is the problem of Greece. I told Mr Tsakalotos earlier about the elements of MODY'S on the basis of which we have the lowest labour productivity in Europe. This very low labour productivity is the main problem with low wages and unemployment. That is our philosophical difference. Finally, I will say that this plan is a historic opportunity. I have two daughters to be fine, and two grandsons, for now. The years go by. None of us are finally counted by what he says. It's measured by what it does and what it works. Our duty is to do our duty towards the future, to the children and grandchildren of this country. That is what the government is doing, and that is why I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u155	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas follows Mr. Karasmanis from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me before I enter the economy that Mr. Skylakakis said to say a big bravo as the Greek Parliament at the first gold medal Greece won at the Olympic Games. No one has mentioned so far - he spoke a lot of people - to this Leventis, Stephanos Dusko, the boy from the Yannina who took the gold medal and honoured the nationalist today and made all Greeks proud. Greece's first gold at the Olympic Games. He deserves a really big shot because he made us proud. If you read what the athlete said then, he said, “In the last five hundred meters I said, “God, help me with it”, and he found strength and endure. These are so that we don't have any carding sensations with sports bases, etc. Here today Greece won, the Greek flag in Tokyo, at the Olympic Games. Mr. Dogfish, I've prepared my daughter. I don't have a son of a bitch yet. I told her she'd pay for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u157	I wish you had it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much. I wish the best. Tell your grandchildren that they're gonna pay the jobs for many years, what my grandfather's signing for. What we are signing today will take us many years to get rid of it, because, as you have said, many of it is loan. So, then, our children and children of our children, so our grandchildren, for many years, will be forgotten. I want to say a few things before I get into my keynote speech. He has made a reference to our rapporteur, Mr Villards, to whom you have a cooperation because he is in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy as an economist - for interest on late payments, that there are interest on late payments in the contract. When we tell you something, we do not say it to offend you, because there are two pounds going on here, the first is if you don't know or read it, and the second is if you know and read it and you don't answer and you ignore us. Both are just as bad. Whether you haven't read it either you ignore us or you don't care about us, both are too bad. We would like you to confirm to us whether or not there are interest on late payments. It's very basic. I have seen with interest that you have asked the President of Parliament for more time. Why? Because you say it is very important what we are talking about. But that's what we're talking about. Time we asked for it not to be brought to the last day we were closing, lofty, anything that went through. We told you to bring it to the committees, to read, to learn, to discuss, to confront, to bail, and then come to vote. So for you time was necessary today. All of us here this year didn't give it to you. You also said that it would bring about a very big increase in GDP. That's very cheerful and encouraging. Alas, if he didn't give. When we talk about a country, Mr. Psulakakis, which cumulatively together our GDP has seen a fall, a collapse of less than 30%, alas. When you get to the bottom, and just take your head off, it's a GDP increase. I wish that you would be confirmed and that we have a great deal of growth and that Greece should become a wealthy country, which we unfortunately do not see. I'm over Ursula. We were moved by how painful Mrs. Von der Lyen is and how much she loves Greece and how simplely Europe gave the money to our country without asking for anything. Obviously, since they function as a colony in Greece. That's how they see her. What can it be? Did the pain catch Ursula von der Lyen? We have also heard for the first time today from Mr Stakoura something. So far, what did we know? That the government in a year and a half dropped - we say - 41 billion in the COVID period. Why did he waste it, we say? Because he did not invest them somewhere or provide the job. He donated unemployment, the total lockdown and that money has already been lost. They won't catch up sometime. They're not waiting somewhere to invest. We didn't do anything. They're out of here, it's over. Today we have heard for the first time, Mr Psulakakis, from Mr Stavoura about an hour ago that we have borrowed 41 billion to date, because until now we have known that we have received 41 billion. So we borrowed. That's why I'm telling you our children and grandchildren have too much to pay for, Mr. Dog. And go back to how you brought it. It's been said ten times. Let's just say what obligations this brings, because we're celebrating here today, we have a sense of celebration, they're opening champagne, we're entering another era. Good. What obligations does it bring? What burdens do our fellow citizens bear? What's this translated into for our children? I wrote it before you mentioned our family. For a long time you have been advertising - and with 'e' and 'yes' - everywhere and in any way the sum of money that comes from Europe, the billions, and you are presenting it as our country's salvation from the sufferings of the pandemic and that this will restore the economy. Yes, sir. Can I ask you something? Why was our economy crumbled? Is there someone responsible for the collapse, dissolution, the smashing of our economy? We say that yes, there is, and it is the New Democracy Government, because your decisions were the limitations you imposed, the catastrophic measures you have taken, the lockdown, the more protracted and stricter throughout Europe. We had as a result of the citizens being desperate, the market being drained, and the unemployed to whom you referred to multiplying. This is the result of your choices, in our view, as a party, of the mistreatment you had in the matter of pandemic. So we needed too much money and we borrow too much money. Our party, the Greek Solution, from the first moment, before the pandemic, and until now when we speak to you, has highlighted the mistakes in government policies and priorities. From the first day we entered the House we stressed how important it is for our economy not only to rely on a boat, on a leg, on tourism. We recognise that tourism is a great source of revenue and a serious proportion of our country's GDP, but we cannot call tourism 'weightly industry', because industry is something else. You'll probably have travelled. You will see in Germany, you will see in Belgium, you will see in such European countries. Tourism is a service provision. The government had to open up, give the opportunity and incentives for growth in other sectors too. We insist. Our tongue's gonna get a haircut. It's going to happen sometime too. Primary sector, agriculture, fisheries, livestock. You're not listening to us. And when you fail, of course, the excuse is very easy. You as a government are never to blame. Whether it's the pandemic, it's the citizens' fault, it's the young people's fault. It's always someone's fault except for you. So now you say that with the most famous Recovery Fund, billions will fall into Greece. You should sometime realize that there is now a mistrust out there. I don't know what picture you have for the world, but we have another picture. He is very sceptical to you and to the political system all, not just to the government. We pay her, and we pay the bride because of you. He has realised that many of the words are words. About half of the 12.7 billion - to say it to the world - is a loan, another loan that falls on the back of the Greeks. And go to some other issues, because time is pushing. You make it difficult, if not impossible, for this money to reach the small and medium-sized ones, to those who really need it. Instead of putting them on the market, taking a real breath for small and medium-sized enterprises, the banks, credit institutions, which have closed down the buckle of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, and for small and medium-sized borrowers, will actually decide. The question, then, is: How do you expect the market to recover? Promote money or a part of the importance of money in the primary sector, which so much needs it and we have wronged him for so many years. Give financial incentives to develop a modern, digital agriculture. So not only will you attract investors, but they will also create jobs and come our youths, scientists, I hope, work. I close with an almost economic part - let's say that - because since yesterday it has been unbuilt. In windows, in broadcasts, they deal with 'outside'. Listen to something - to be heard in the world, I say it and transfer the announcement issued by the Greek Solution, the official position - this: The Greek Solution is clear to the Greek women and the Greeks who hear us that it does not participate in the committee on 'from where you are.' Who is involved in the committee? The New Democracy, SYRIZA - hold this, will need us shortly - independent authorities, judges appointed by the government. They're part of the committee. So what SYRIZA denounces today, why didn't he report them to the committee in which he participates? For communication reasons. It's, you know, confirming the cooperation of the two parties in covering national and economic crimes and, if you want, it's a jenerale rehearsal, it's a rehearsal, not a wedding dress, it's a suit rehearsal, because you're preparing for it. You may now be convening informally, because on the basis of all the important, economic and national, you agree, but in the near future, very briefly, you will also do so officially. Mr President, I would like to make a very different reference. You will allow me, as a parliamentary representative today, to make two - three references to other issues, which I think we should communicate with the Greeks and Greeks. You know, we're talking about an international riot about our country. To stop the interventions in the Acropolis would like UNESCO. You know that? Today. That's shocking. UNESCO is displeased with the Acropolis cement, which has caused an outcry in and out of the border for months. There is no greater shame than that, that foreigners talk about the cradle of culture, about our Greece, to tell us that we have begged the Acropolis. That's what we did. We said it, we denounced it. And how does a minister, which is an archaeologist, tolerate UNESCO dispensing you to stop making the Acropolis cement, that he is in danger of permanent destruction? I would remind you - and I close it up - that the Greek Solution had submitted to Parliament - to take it from the Practical - comprehensive study of the interventions you made at the Holy Rock, a study fully costed, with specialized materials, with few interventions that will respect this worldwide monument. You don't hear us there either. The world outcry is here. Unfortunately, however, this outcry concerns all of us in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, can I take two, three minutes from my dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u159	You can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I'll show a picture, which also presents a creepy interest. See, Mr Russopoulou: "Please, for your own safety, do not embrace the image, because the pilgrimage of the holy images kills." In our churches these. The hierarchy has lost its way completely. Close to her, however, the believers also lose him. It is not possible for the Church’s leadership to function reluctantly toward the flock. It can't be done. We've seen temples all this time turning into vaccination centers. Unbelievable! We've seen the Aunt Society with plastic spoons. We saw that, too. We have seen priests flying out of the temples the believers because of a mask. We have seen clergymen blackmail in order to propaganda for the vaccine, which is presented as God’s gift. We have seen bishops speak not with love, but with hatred against thousands of Greek citizens. What we have not yet seen - and the weather is near - is what you have in mind for the 15th century. We suspect it, but we don't want what we suspect will happen. Leave the faithful alone and do not blackmail, do not divide the Greek Christian Orthodox. I would also like to refer to the loss of the patriot, the oxen of the Imia, Antonis of Veziropoulos. Mr Kaklamanis raised it yesterday, and the President of the Greek Solution, of course, mentioned it. Let us say that the Court of Auditors asks the Municipality of Kalymnos to repay the aid it received. The Greek Solution expresses its rage as well as its concern. Since there is such a decision of shame, we ask for its immediate revocation. And because, Mr President, this is the last sitting before the summer holidays, so that we can all leave with nice memories, we have to describe where we are going for ten, fifteen days, let us stay with the last picture they say. This is the last picture. Because you have invoked various forms and newspapers before - 'NEW YORK TIMES' etc. - here make yourselves comfortable with "DIMMOCRATIA". Up to "DIMMOCRATIA" we get here. See a little: "The Skopje have a party with us." We are talking about the Olympic Games - we are not talking about a neighborhood poker tournament - where the Scottish Olympic Committee celebrates the medal won by Skopje and declares the official seat of the Republic of Macedonia, Makendonski Olimpiijski Komitet. As we have here our Olympic Committee, they do. Do you see this? Why do we let them get through like this? Did we react, move our finger, pick up a phone? When are we going to tolerate these guys humiliating Greece and homeland? How long? Look, August's coming in. I remember wearing a coat when the Skopje protocols were coming. We took off the coat, put on winter suits. He still had a cold. We put the linen on. It's summer. The House's closing. Will you bring them in, so we can make them nice and favorite? I may have given a dose of really humor at the end, but things are very serious and we really feel ashamed of it here, which is your creation, SYRIZA and yours, of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u161	Mr Karasmanis from New Democracy has the floor, followed by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the twenty-fifth years of my uninterrupted presence in Parliament I fully uphold the letter of the Rules of Procedure and remain focused on the bill, I avoid giving any answers. With this draft law we are called upon to ratify the Convention on the financing of a dynamic development programme and at the same time on the loan contract between the European Commission and our country, namely, to ratify the conventions with which the recovery plan will be implemented, a plan that was born from the imperative need to address the dramatic social and economic consequences of the unprecedented pandemic, while at the same time having an investment nature. And we cannot point out here the decisive role of the Prime Minister's initiative, which, since the beginning of the pandemic, with eight other European leaders, strongly put the proposal to draw up and implement this project in the European Union's area, an initiative which is now celebrating the success of the project concerning our country, namely Greece 2.0, to be one of the first to be presented and the first to be adopted by the European Commission, having also received very positive comments on its adequacy and quality, both by Community officials and by the largest, more valid European financial media, on which Mr. There is no doubt that all this work is credited to the Ministry's leadership, Mr Stakoura, in particular to the Deputy Minister of Education and his staff, who had the coordination, and this is a great opportunity that we must use to the fullest extent, as this is a very large sum of 30.5 billion, which, together with the private funds to be invested, reach about 60 billion to be absorbed by August 2026. We are talking about a hundred and seventy investments and reform measures that need to be implemented quickly within these tight deadlines and will contribute to the country's dynamic development. In view of the fact that only yesterday, the new NSRP 2021-2027 to 26.2 billion plus the new CFP, together with the other funding packages from the European Union and national funds, has been approved, there is an overall chapter close to 100 billion for the rapid recovery and development of our national economy. This is why I would once again stress that the timely absorption of these funds and the rapid implementation of the individual projects is not enough, since the evaluation will be carried out every six months. All these investment projects cover the whole territory, society, all sizes of businesses, small, medium-sized, large businesses, and will create hundreds of thousands of good jobs. This is an answer to colleagues who have quite rightly claimed that the recovery plan will benefit only the business 'large sharks'. I ask: will the 'exocognized' programme benefit from 'large sharks' or thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and households? The tourism programme, which includes interventions on mountain tourism, ski resorts, health and well-being tourism through the utilization of health sources, agri-tourism, interventions in the agri-food sector are also for small and medium-sized enterprises? Or will the important funds earmarked for the primary sector of our production, such as the restructuring of crops, be given to 'large sharks'? In particular, for this area, I should like to stress that serious planning and preparation must be made in time for which crops will be restructured, which varieties will be included in the programme and for which compensation. There should be serious consultation with farmers, because the plan is expressed as a mere reference. Do not repeat the 2019 case, which the previous government promised to restructure trees, but, as it turned out, did not deposit a single paper to the European Commission, as revealed here in Parliament. A number of colleagues in the Officerial Response invoked an investigation that the respondents considered that no one would benefit from the resources of the recovery plan. It appears that researchers did not send their questionnaire to the inhabitants of Pella and the neighbouring prefectures. If they had, they would have learned that with the definitive integration into the recovery plan of the Almopionian dam, one of the largest in the country, he joined the Recovery Fund thanks to the steepness of Deputy Minister of Economics Dome Dome, who understood the enormous, multiplier importance of the project, and the Prime Minister, who, from the very beginning, understood the outrageous injustice against Pella and the multipurpose of the project and gave his approval. I would be unfair if I were not to mention the new leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which has shown particular interest in its construction at the very first moment. So, then, we would learn that it is a project of enormous economic and development importance, that it will create a large number of jobs, that it will irrigate many tens of thousands of acres, giving a significant boost to our rural economy, that with the lake that is being created and with the protection of the environment and the exploitation of natural beauty it will give new dynamic growth in the internal and external tourism of the surrounding areas. Will the fewer people benefit from this work, which, until there has been a posteriori and fraudulent manipulation, made it literally a new bridge of Arta and which, while decided by the Government of New Democracy 2005-2009, which financed all the studies, premeditated and main study, went through forty waves for the past fifteen years, and the previous government has tried to deceive and cancel it, not only by doing absolutely nothing for four and a half years, but by throwing it out of the two and twenty-nine dams that approved on the eve of the 2019 elections? And despite the fact that our predecessor government over the speaker had guaranteed 450 million Community funds for dams, they have left them throughout their government unnecessarily sprinkling in the Brussels funds. Today this great project takes flesh and bone through the funds of the recovery plan, as they will get flesh and bone all the projects that with their early, careful and realistic implementation plan will spectacularly change the country's development map for the benefit of our national economy and social total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u163	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, will now speak and will be followed by Mr Sarakiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are discussing the two conventions on financial and lending support for the Recovery Fund between Greece and the European Union. First of all, let us see what the Recovery Fund is, so that we can find out whether these financial contracts are in a positive direction or not. What is the Recovery Fund? The Recovery Fund is nothing but the European Union's response to the capitalist crisis and, indeed, a response to the background of tough competition between multinationals from the United States or from other countries and the support packages that these countries, the major imperialist centres, have made to support these multinationals. So the European Union also had to follow the same path and, after compromises - compromises not about orientation, but about who will be more or less beneficial to business groups - ended up in the Development and Resilience Fund, which wants to shield the euro-Union business groups, namely multinationals, from the tough competition. This is how it directly finances business groups, through support for their investment plans and also indirectly, through the creation of a series of infrastructures that help improve the business environment and facilitate the business designs of multinationals. Of course, this fund is not on its own. There's a tail, and the tail is the prerequisites. And these prerequisites are to promote a series of reforms that are taking place in the best European perspectives. So in this respect, what are these prerequisites in Greece? It is the job, with the new anti-government abortion brought about by the government for redeployment of working time, intensification of workers' work, increase the degree of exploitation and control of the trade union movement by the state and employers. Why is the government doing this? Of course, to subdue the labour movement and, at the same time, to form workers who will shield competitive profitability through their cheap employment status. Does the European Union say anything different? For that Mr Haritsis called it 'anti-social reform'. What, for example, does the Executive Board say on page 2 of the Greek Plan? It says: 'The implementation of measures such as reduced working hours', so we will respond to the small employment rate and the impact on employment and society, 'and also to support participation in working life'. What does that mean? That we are going to fund the worker, of course, for workers to be cheaper for business groups. The second prerequisite is the new Auxiliary Fund, where in essence - and here are the best European practices - it will operate on the basis of the capitalisation system. In other words, the money of those insured in the financial markets will be gambled. Thirdly, with regard to education, with the law - now - for education, which returns us to the educational middle ages, with the graduation and autonomy of the school, so that the class barriers to education are increased so that the children of the working people are given certain skills so that they can meet the needs of the labour market as a potential consumable. The fourth axis is taxation. What does the implementation decision say again? That reforms in tax administration should help to create a tax environment more favourable to growth - page 8 - so tax competition and, from this point of view, support for the essence of business groups. What's the result? Increasingly and less contribution from this infinitely minimal contribution made by business groups to all tax revenues and most of the pie will pay the popular layers. The Minister in his speech made a smuggling, saying 70% is not paying taxes. This can be the case with direct taxation. But in indirect, they all pay and this poor 70% pay taxes and, in fact, 30% of their income. Because above - below, so are the taxes on consumption that fall on people's income, indirect taxation. From this point of view, Mr Poutlakas - you have also referred to fiscal inequalities - I will propose that you do something else, if you want to eliminate fiscal inequalities. Give the same right to the worker, the retired person, the self-employed person to participate voluntarily in tax burdens, as the shipowners do. Why don't you do that? Will not inequalities be tackled? So do this! It's a very good practice, we'd say. What shipowners are volunteering to pay, too, to pay pensioners as tax burdens, since you say that you want to deal with tax inequalities. But that's not what you're doing. In this respect, therefore, there will be supervision, control over whether the project is being implemented. In order to be able to disburse the instalments, the anti-grassroots reforms, the Pan-European Memorandum at the expense of all the peoples, are progressing. For that is what is happening in the other countries of the European Union. Of course, there is also observance of the logic of fiscal consolidation, namely the existence of primary surpluses from 2023 onwards, until 2060, signed by the SYRIZA Government of the order of over 2.2%, the bloody primary surpluses. SYRIZA claims, but also the Change Movement and others, that the European Union is changing, that a new wind is breathing. This is nothing but an outrage of the European Union literally, because imperialist character is not only changing, but strengthening, becoming even heavier for the peoples, and at the expense of the rights of the peoples of Europe as well as the rest of the world. So the new mixture that the European Union has chosen today, the expansion mix, not only progressive, is not but is deeply anti-grassy, as was the restrictive mixture implemented by the SYRIZA government. So either an expansive form of management or a restrictive one is at the expense of labour, at the expense of people's interests and at the end, the account of this package of funds will be called upon to be paid by the people of Europe. Secondly, the Greek project presented is adapted to the directions of the European Union, in particular with regard to the green transition and the digital transition. So the green transition and the infrastructure in green networks will lead to expensive energy for the people, expensive cars, expensive green houses. So, in other words, it will further increase energy poverty. Because SYRIZA knows that energy poverty will increase with green energy, he tells us to go to energy communities. Good thing he didn't tell us to go to the people's base companies - which you saw - that is, the cooperatives, who turned themselves into anonymous companies, so that he could do what? Golden the policy pill that SYRIZA defends and serves the interests of the predators of green energy. What are these policies? The liberalisation of energy, the installation of wind turbines and, more generally, of the predators of green energy, the support of the energy mix in our country for imports, whether they are energy imports of natural gas, as a transport fuel - that is to say, to increase the energy dependency - and, of course, to the creation of the energy stock exchange that SYRIZA has done so that monopolies can haggle on how to sell and buy the price at the expense of the people's needs. Secondly, it is the digital transition, which in the hands of the capital will further increase the digital divide and infrastructure will be equivalent to the needs of business groups. So the digital modernisation of business groups will certainly increase their competitiveness, of course it will increase labour productivity and lead to much cheaper workers, to an increase in the exploitation of the working class. And from this point of view, any other infrastructure that is necessary, Minister, to improve the living conditions of the people's family is referred to the bells. For example, an earthquake shield is nowhere to be found. It's not eligible. Some individual anti-milling is done, but they do not meet the current needs of total anti-milling protection. Anti-nuclear protection. Buying planes does not say anything when the Fire Service is downgraded, when it does not have the funding for mental and earthly fire-fighting equipment. Because these are going to erase the fire. Aerials also restrict it from this point of view, instead of money being given for prevention, are given for repression. Because that's an interest in the business groups that the planes will sell you. While prevention does not cost, it has no benefit to business groups. A similar logic exists in a number of other infrastructures. You spoke about the irrigation network that is going to take place within the public-private partnership. In other words, the new irrigation network will sell too expensive water to make the money of the consortium, the business groups, which means what? Delete bio-populist farmers, concentration of agricultural production in less hands, i.e. in agricultural capitalist enterprises and at the same time concentration and change of the land contract, to settle there RES, but also to make tourist investments in high productivity land. And, if you want such investments and infrastructures as you say, which cover up the character, I should like to tell you one that has been done. Recently I went to Thesprotia. The town of Perdica, a thousand five hundred inhabitants, does not have a water network. It's obsessed, and what did the municipality say to them? Take water with aqueducts! In 2021! On the contrary, a water supply network was set up for the largest hotel in the region, the ‘Marbella’, which has catastrophic water! Next to Perdicus town! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Third matter. There is a lot of talk about the Recovery Fund being an opportunity for another production model, for another development model. Of course it's not worth any comment. The undeniable claim by Mr Drasakis that this model will be free of the crises seems to have revealed the magic recipe of exonerating capitalism from its crises. But let us get to more fundamental issues. Who defines the new development model? What are these social powers that define the new development model? Those who have the keys to the economy and these are the capitalists. The capital determines where it will invest. And here's the paradox. While there are accumulated funds, they are not invested, because they have no profit. If it does not ensure that the urban state sectors of investment, where they will make profits, are not invested. So the capitalists will determine what the growth model they want will be. And it is no coincidence that, in conditions of internationalisation of the capitalist economy, comparative advantages do not exploit them so that they can withstand international competition, which means what? That they are destroying productive potential and remain unexploited. Potentials that are not competitive with international competition, thus choosing such branches that are outdated, despite the fact that these outdated branches are vulnerable to the effects of the international capital crises. So, in our country, the traditional model that exists, exists and will exist, will be linked to tourism, transit to transport and energy, and to the agri-food sector, which does not mean that it is for the benefit of bio-populators, farmers and farmers. It is characteristic that the model defines it as those who hit the duo, to remember an old expression, and governments dance at the rate of duo beaten by capitalists. From this point of view, the result in the capitalist system is to increase the imbalance between sectors that do not invest capital, because it does not have an interest, but also between regions, and this aspect of anisometry will lead to even deeper social issues and exclusions. So, as far as the convergence you're talking about is like begging the sun out of the West to capitalism. There will be no convergence. Thirdly, in this section. Who defines the plan? Is it first Greek and is it adapted to European data, or is it the European data to which the Greek project is adapted? We call it clear. It is the European data that determines the adaptation of the Greek requirements and needs of our country's bourgeoisie. The European programmes are prioritised and this is a voluntary assignment on the part of the Greek ruling class and for this reason - what Mr Drasakis claimed is well aware of the fact that it is not the case - the Public Investment Programme, by its own law, has become a complement to European programmes, so that 85% to 90% of the funds of the Public Investment Programme go to co-financed projects and support the European Union and only the remaining 15% to 10% go to the single national component, as you call it. And from this point of view, of course, it is because the European Union determines the eligibility of programmes, complementarity and trans-European efficiency. Fourth issue, fair growth and the reduction of inequalities. But you have rightly said, Mr Tsakaloto, that they are determined by the forms of ownership of the means of production. As long as there is individual property in the means of production, there will be inequalities and they will be widened. And in conditions of internationalisation of the economy, there is no tool in each individual urban state to limit inequalities. So what are you talking about? You tell the workers to accept the stealing and fight, like Sisyphus, to limit the stealing that makes them the capital. And from this point of view, is it so worthy that SYRIZA's claim that the world of work will be at the heart of the new development model, with the new social contract, which, in essence, says the new social contract? Submission of the working class to the interests of capital. Why? Because, just as you, SYRIZA, and the previous Minister of Finance, have copied the mathematical model of the late Constantine Mitsotakis, which said 0% of the first six months wage increase and 0% in the second half, increase wage, makes us 14%. So the Minister said this morning that the reduction in insurance contributions increases the income available, forgetting to say that it reduces the total income of employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u165	Was the increase in the minimum wage virtual?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u166	Well, that is what it says when it says that wages fall, and that is what you say when Mr Tsipras tells BSE that the increase in minimum wages will also lead to a reduction in non-wage costs. That is to say, the total wage of workers will be reduced and the available wage increased. But the total wage is down. Who wins from this? The employee, who has a lower total salary, or business groups? Of course, the business groups, because they shield their competitive profitability. You recalled the ruins of the social state, which at the time of commercialisation cannot exist. That is why it was replaced, if there ever was a social state, by the so-called 'target interventions' to the vulnerable, by the minimum guaranteed income and by the networks of protection against poverty. Finally, two more things. Small and medium-sized enterprises. Here there is a strangle of the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the basis of the European Union, small and medium-sized enterprises? Because the European Union, which finances, finances the small and medium-sized enterprises which it considers to be small and medium-sized. Who are these? It's 5% of Greek businesses. So if you accept the European Union's financing policy, you must accept that 95% of Greek enterprises are not financed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u167	Based on the Greek data?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u168	Leave the Greek data. This is a rounding. To hide what, we say? To hide what? To hide fundamentally that you want to form a policy of alliances with the strategic choices of capital, which brings together the self-employed, the professionals, the bio-populators, the family businesses, under the flag, but which breaks them down. And the flag that breaks them is capitalist competition. The big fish always eats the little fish. Secondly, the policies of the European Union which are at the expense of professionals, self-employed. Release of the energy market. And thirdly, the current government policy, whether it is tax or insurance. In this respect, therefore, we say that the criticism of the other forces is convenient for the government. It's convenient, because it's complementary. Because you are basically in agreement with the strategic choices as defined by the ruling class in our country, by the European Union's policy. The European Union's policy is the unifying element, and that is why you are proposing to the Government a cross-party monitoring committee of the Recovery Fund. It is a criticism that is at the expense of the needs of the workers and the people, because it cultivates deceptively in the world and entangles him in Scylla and Harybden of the system, in the millstones that break his rights, which break the possibility of satisfying his needs. From this point of view, we say clearly that the people must go through the counter-attack and overthrow this rotten system, in order to respond to the contradiction in which, Minister, you cannot answer, how it is possible in the world and in our country to produce wealth much more than decades ago, this wealth should go to less hands and those producing wealth become more and more poorer in both our country and internationally. We say, then, very clearly that, in order to stop this contradiction, we must get rid of those who are fruitful of wealth, so that the wealth of those who produce it is left with it and have it on the basis of their needs. But that means socialism. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u169	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA and is followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today being called on to discuss a project that will essentially define our country's course for several years, a plan which represents a historic opportunity for the reconstruction of the economy, for the transformation of our country's productive model and for the treatment of a series of time-long structural pathogens that are identified in critical areas. This unprecedented experience, with the pandemic playing a decisive role in this, has forced and obliges all of us to approach newly and from a new perspective fundamental issues, such as the relationship between man and the natural environment, the priorities of politics compared to those of the markets, the importance of public goods, public health, public education, the need to strengthen the social state to improve people's lives and the progress of societies. The Recovery Fund, in which the Greek plan has also been drawn up - I will comment further on how it was drawn up - is the first step of a reflection of how the challenges of this size of crisis have to be approached, which, of course, has not taken place years ago, when Europe has also been called upon to manage the economic crisis at that time, which has hit our country for about a decade. This is another shift in those who have been obsessed with and sterile in the theories of austerity, strict budgetary discipline and yet another confirmation of all those who have been claiming that the recipe can and must be different. Here is the first point of our difference, our worldview and our ideological direction. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] However, the government, unfortunately, seems not to understand these first steps, as I said before, taking place worldwide. At the same time, it shows that it does not even understand what was stated in the report that was the background to the national plan, in its own Pissaridis report, such as the need to alleviate regional and socio-economic disparities identified as a challenge of a national nature, as well as the essential adoption of the concept of inclusive development that international organisations are talking about. As government officials finally say in their public interventions, Greece in the years to come has the possibility of mobilising through the main financial instruments of total Community funds close to EUR 77 billion, without taking into account the leverage of private resources. It concerns appropriations that historically outweigh any other external funding, while at the same time admitting that the effects of pandemic appear asymmetrical and the first measurements record a significant expansion of regional and intra-regional economic and social disparities, which is also shown in the text of the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2022-2025. Is it good, then, from the point of view of government officials, but should you be looking for the right and most effective way of dealing with these problems, and for individual actions to be socially fairer? How did you and the government in general choose to approach the process methodically, Minister? How have you approached the consequences of the pandemic crisis in regional and smaller local communities? How many and what were the proposals adopted in the plan submitted on 27 April by the representatives of local government I and 2 degrees, the representatives of productive bodies, universities and research centres? According to the text, the "Analytical Description of Actions", as you called it, of the two hundred seven pages of April 2021 - which you made public and thank you - we learned that a total of forty-five interventions were made electronically through the consultation site, while eight interventions were sent in writing to the Ministry of Finance. It can't be, Minister, no matter how good one is, rather than ask. Is that enough? Are you telling us that the government has taken note of all the problems and proposals of the regions and regional units? As your members have pointed out, as Mr Skalko mentioned, there are already intensified intra-regional disparities. The forty-five interventions are consultation on a plan of tens of billion euros, which will judge the future of the country for the next few decades. The rapporteur of the Change Movement mentioned other bills and other articles of secondary bills that brought together ten - twenty - thousand comments and were withdrawn. Is this the list of projects with total lack of coherence and objectives and with the fine titles the vehicle that will lay the solid foundations of social justice and development for all, with a view to building a strong economy in a fair society? Is this how the Government of New Democrat Republic respects the representatives of the Government and the Government of the New Democracy? So you chose to put forward a proposal on 27 April which we were informed about next day by the Counsellor on the finances of the Prime Minister, Mr Pantellis, on the fact that this is a four thousand-page four-page plan, of which one thousand-three hundred-three-three-three-three hundred-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-threaty. What else did we learn from a press release now from the European Commission on 28 April? We have learned that the Commission will assess the projects within the next two months on the basis of the eleven criteria set out in the regulation and will transform their content into legally binding acts, to later sign the texts of the relevant conventions in July 2021, which you brought to Parliament today. In short, it is gratifying that there are European institutions as well and we Members are also learning what is happening in our country. You upset us in democracy, consultation and transparency, Minister! That is why we, by our rapporteur, Mr Haritsis, have tabled the proposal for a Intergroup Committee, which will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the project, a proposal which you are obliged to accept, Minister, in order to reverse even now the distorted anti-democratic and anti-parliamentary behaviour of the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u171	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in this difficult year we are experiencing and, indeed, with the experience of the coronary pandemic, all of us are shocked, and especially the world community, we have had a happy ending. We have had the happy ending through this crisis to see the Europe of the peoples rise and that is important. So we have seen the stubborn Europe of numbers turning and ending up with a great deal of agreement on the Recovery Fund, a fund that was shielded, I would say, with EUR 750 billion, and that, of course, is to shield Europe's economies in turn, in order to acquire, that is, again, states which have problems with their economy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important moment for European integration and for European integration, I would say, an undertaking proposed and chosen through the European Union, even though we are talking about a real, I would say, fiscal federation, which imposes an agreement, an agreement to issue debt securities of the European Union itself with a guarantee of its budget. This, of course, is the case so that the Recovery Fund can be financed. Here I would like to mention that it is a step that reminds me of the 2011 PASOK proposal, which is not far away in 2011, so that PASOK stood up and lifted the burden for Greece not to go bankrupt, when PASOK actually set the patriotic duty, the patriotic duty to suppress the feeling of logic for the interests of the party, when the antimony of the opposition was dominated as a flag of opposition, when the then PASOK Prime Minister and the government of George Papandreou were talking about issuing common Eurobonds for the countries of the euro area, and that, of course, when the Eurozone countries would have been following on to help with the debt crisis. Finally, one is the conclusion: PASOK is slowly and firmly justified. However, I would say that there is a second conclusion, by the way, that the PASOK is coming back. Ladies and gentlemen, the Recovery Fund in other words has the same basis and logic as our proposal at the time of the Eurobond, with the proposal of the then Prime Minister George Papandreou. And here, ladies and gentlemen, it must be stressed that this is really a big step. Why is this a big step, will anyone ask? Because what the European Stability Mechanism did in 2012 is doing today, with the guarantee of the Member States, the European Union itself. In other words, the idea of a common debt was proposed for the recovery of the economies and, indeed, within the pandemic and, of course, not the burden of the Member States' budgets, while at the same time supporting the existing mechanisms, such as the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank or the preventive credit lines of the European Stability Mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, this idea has been forged and forged with the constant effort of the country of 2008-2018 to overcome the economic crisis, when Europe was essentially institutionally unprepared, and this, Minister, has been retained. However, Minister, reaching this agreement at a time when Greece had just completed a painful circle of memorials and, of course, budgetary restrictions could, therefore, decisively change the landscape for the Greek economy? Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion in the country they will incur 32 billion euros from the Recovery Fund. Here, in fact, if we look at the big picture and sum up all the available multiannual budget lines, then we are talking about over EUR 72 billion. That is why, Minister, and the national objective of absorbing and exploiting these funds must be drawn up politically and technically by the political forces, social bodies and civil society, so that our national objective can be served by all the parties involved. I remember here what was said by the former Minister and MP of PASOK and the former President of PASOK, Evangelos Venizelos, and, in fact, it was said and supported in an interview that it was necessary to clarify the relationship between the rescue and restructuring of the Greek economy, between the integration of infrastructure and the transformation of the production structure. Sure, someone's asking, can it be done? Can he? Of course he can. How? Politics. In these dilemmas, therefore, Minister, there is also our main disagreement with this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the two relevant conventions between the Hellenic Republic and the European Commission are first notified to the House and, more generally, to society, to the full National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Today's remarks and remarks from our rapporteur, Mr Katrin, to the committees and the current rapporteur in plenary, Mr Kamine, concern both the methodology and, of course, the core of the agreement. Observation first is that the National Recovery Plan, Minister, is governmental and not national. Well, he'll be wondering why, of course. Because it has only been discussed among the members of the government and the European Union, and let this be held up. It has not been discussed with the House, with the social partners and other social actors. Secondly, public consultation, ladies and gentlemen, was a pretext. Any proposals put forward have been considered, at first instance, to be rejected. Observation third, Minister, is that it does not appear to include a serious analysis of the productive position of the Greek economy and this, of course, in the world production of goods and services, nor a corresponding analysis of its geopolitical and geo-economic position, of course within the global community. In this context, we can say that there are no important initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, and synergies with the defence industry and with the shipbuilding industry. There is no point, I would say, in particular the concept of targeted strategy, of national added value, which is essentially something that we are constantly proposing as a change movement - PASOK, and on several occasions our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, has put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, our country knows that much of the money comes back from the market in goods and services in the countries of the European North. Where? In the strong countries of the Union. To tackle this trend, ladies and gentlemen, it should be, Minister, at the heart of the national plan. In fact, I would say that they need answers from the countries of the North, and indeed, I would say, tough answers. The North cannot operate at the expense of the south of Europe and cannot be answered. Observation fourthly - I think Mr Tsakalotos also agrees - that the final draft of the Pissaridis Committee has presented concrete proposals by industry. However, they must be transformed into integrated projects. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the government in the draft which it has tabled has put down sectoral policies into a sub-module. In fact, it should be stressed here that the resources that are heading in this direction are not enough. They should be combined with targeted sectoral policies, as proposed by KINAL, rather than focusing on the monoculture of tourism. For example, there are no actions relating to the primary sector, actions relating to agriculture, animal husbandry, whose contribution to the GDP of the country is constantly falling. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the logic of energy democracy and energy communities is completely lacking in energy policy. It should be stressed here that public health, education and transport infrastructures are not integrated, i.e. projects that improve the standard of living of the citizen and, of course, bring growth. It seems, Minister, that sectoral policies have not been provided for, so that there will be a focus on large companies and groups. The fifth point relates to the money that will come from the national credit system, which is of course still facing a number of problems, and that needs to be taken care of. However, Minister, it is a problem registered by the Bank of Greece which refers to liquidity, where the huge liquidity of more than EUR 40 billion made available by the European Central Bank has been directed to few businesses, and to a large extent large companies have not needed it. Here it should be stressed that only thirty thousand of the four hundred thousand businesses and eight hundred thirty thousand active business VDUs had access to bank lending. Here, Minister, what do you answer to those who have been rejected? Because, Minister, this means that the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, i.e. the backbone of the Greek economy, came out. Another crucial problem concerns the burning private debt, the due amount of regulation. For example, I tell you that it is PPC's debt due, PPC's 4 billion debt, CEC's debt and due debt, 105.7 billion non-performing loans and also 12 billion complained loans for large businesses and 11.3 billion for small businesses. However, Minister, with the HERAKLIS project, the private debt has failed and the private debt has increased further since the pandemic situation has been normalised, we insist on our position. The borrowers should have and should have preceded the funds in the redemption of their loans, and even on the same terms, a proposal I had tabled on SYRIZA in 2015 and 2017, but they were not heard, a proposal that I re-printed from this Step of the House and which is of course the position of the Change Movement. Cyprus has shown us the way, but we have not followed him, that is to say, before the borrowers of the foreign fund, that is to say stay homes for the households and not go to the fucked fingernails of the fund. I would like an answer here. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time there is no government plan for the new generation of red loans, which both the European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece have predicted will exist in the midst of a pandemic. Sixth point: it does not record the real synergies at project and reform level between the resources of the Recovery Fund and the resources of the NRP and the CFP, as well as the other national projects mentioned therein. Seventh observation: There is no care to make use of the public debt and even when the "Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A." is managed, of course, to prevent the value of the public assets. However, Minister, there is no regional dimension and analysis, but there is also a distinct involvement of local government and this should be kept. In addition, the allocation of resources for island policy has no, none at all, documentation nor, of course, any serious analysis of the direct benefit of the inhabitants of the smaller islands. Eighth observation: Conservative and political mark on employment and social issues. In other words, the welfare state is missing. There is no new development model for social policy, nor is there any policy to tackle demographic ageing, and this, of course, to support the family and, indeed, to respond to the demographic problem that exists in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, and today's rapporteur, Mr Kamines, said in committee, what the draft law contains and provides only for large, domestic or international groups, without national added value being produced, because there is no provision or reference to the production capacity of the country and, in particular, to the sectors and sectors in which these groups are active. Ladies and gentlemen, as a movement of change, as PASOK, we are concerned that the Recovery Fund, instead of a brave and fair redistribution, will cause a violent transformation of the Greek economy at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises and even at the expense of any middle-class that remains in the country. Finally, with regard to the amendment that the system of managing and controlling the actions and projects of the Recovery Fund will be laid down by a decision of the Minister, and that the minimum rate of granting the loans of the Recovery Fund will also be determined by the Minister, we disagree. We disagree, Minister, with the superpowers you give yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Recovery and Resilience Plan, which the European Union has praised for, opens new horizons for the transformation of our national economy by 2026. At the same time, due to the forward nature of the Recovery Fund, as has been widely known, it offers the possibility of direct support of the social state in our country. The Community targeting for the rapid implementation of the recovery fund projects with the advance payment in Greece of more than 4 billion euros allows us to jump forward, taking a total of five years in total over 30 billion euros from the European Union. We are starting with 30.5 billion European funds, to which another 25 billion private capital will be added. A total of almost EUR 56 billion is therefore entering the Greek economy to revive it with a direct implementation plan. This is a very well thought-out road map of seventy specific projects, investment and reforms, based on four main pillars: the digital transition for the state to businesses and citizens, the green economy and protection from climate change, the increase of employment and social cohesion - with a peak in health and education - and the strengthening of productive and business activity. This is a project that covers all of Greece and aims to create additional two hundred thousand new jobs, increasing our national product within the next six years, which would not be a GDP increase if the Recovery Fund were not there. The draft law comes to confirm the government's commitment to "strengthening" the financial programme, which is based on the contracts that are ratified, which is only the instruments for implementing the Recovery and Resilience Plan, a national plan concerning each Greek and every Greek. I would also like to point out as a human in the health field things that I consider to be extremely important: the strengthening of public health by the Recovery Fund with over EUR 1.5 billion for the creation of new structures and infrastructures. We must also not forget that an important piece of funding for the recovery fund's research and technology, totalling nearly EUR 450 million, will be allocated for the development of biotechnological applications, pharmaceuticals and, of course, medical research. As regards public health services, the main objective of the Recovery Fund is to enhance the accessibility, efficiency and quality of the health system. The design focuses on prevention and investment related to new health infrastructures, while modernising and upgrading existing building infrastructure and medical equipment. For primary health care only over 280m euros will be available to upgrade health centres, reorganise them, retraining staff in first-line care, connecting them to hospital services. At the same time, emphasis is placed on home care for patients with chronic illness and relief treatment by setting up a home care system for vulnerable groups of patients with serious health problems. Nearly EUR 600 million have been budgeted for the modernisation of hospitals throughout the country and for the digital transformation of the health sector. These are upgrading projects of the ESS's logistics infrastructure, renovation of buildings and supply of new medical equipment. A second large pillar is a huge digitalisation programme for public health services, with projects such as the development of the citizens' national electronic health record, the operation of clinical information systems in all hospitals, the digital transformation of cancer management and the strengthening of telemedicine activities, which should ultimately lead not only to the removal of isolation of island areas, but also to the provision of home-to-house medical care to patients who cannot be moved. Madam President, perhaps the most important part of the Recovery Fund is the implementation of the expected National Prevention Programme in the country, the most flagrant initiative in the area of public health called Spiros Doxiadis, a doctor, with a budget that exceeds EUR 250 million and a multitude of actions such as the promotion of physical exercise and healthy nutrition, the strengthening of the National Vaccines Programme, the introduction of preventive diagnostic tests for breast cancer, the preventive control of pups' health and natural measures to prevent the spread of the coronary in the community. All these funding comes to be added to the national part of the Public Investment Programme and to the NSRF for the 2021-2027 programming period. And as much has been heard by the Opposition for lack of consultation and information, I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been clear from the beginning of this great effort. He first informed the Greek people about the results of his negotiations at European Union level, which brought our country more than 70 billion from European funds. Why should we remember that this government has not only brought in 30 billion of the Recovery Fund, but has provided our country with additional Community funding of over 40 billion over the next seven years. I am thinking not only of the new ESDP, but also of the Agricultural Development, Fisheries and European Aid Programmes of our producers. But what did SYRIZA say then? He informed the Greek people that supposedly the Recovery Fund was not 30 billion, but was 20 billion. He was trying to underestimate the other European funds to build the false image of a much smaller European package for Greece, just to reduce national success. So when I hear SYRIZA speak today about a alleged lack of information from the Greek people about the Recovery Fund, I wonder: Will the Civic Anti-Civilization at all times be revamped by the misinformation that she has launched against the Greek people? Because criticism requires two things before that: self-criticism and, of course, the correction of errors by the critic. Otherwise, the critic loses all credibility and the people leave him behind. However, Greece today decides to move forward. It is now entering a new era of recovery, having all the means to become a model of resilience and recovery, that is to say, what the people have asked for two years ago from New Democracy and for which the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is constantly working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a serious dilemma. The Recovery Fund draft is a very serious piece of legislation. It is a golden opportunity for the country, an opportunity after the pandemic to recover, exploit resources, an opportunity to fill a gap that the fiscal and health crisis has brought to the fore. Are we going to take advantage of her, though? We have been in favour of this step by the European Union from the outset, unlike previous crises, which had gone on in restrictive policies. The Recovery Fund may take a step towards a mechanism to support sustainable development and reduce inequalities. I want to stand on three points. Point one. It is unacceptable that such an important instrument is legislation by means of amendments and without any information. We have another amendment today, but only three days ago we had another one in an unrelated bill. This project is not a product of consultation with producer bodies. It binds the country and the next governments. It comes at a speedy pace, with the pretext of completing Parliament's procedures. You have chosen the Recovery Fund to be institutionalised without consulting society, between Maximos and an executive state. Point two. The main question here is who is concerned about the benefits? The Fund's resources are 17.8 billion grants and 12.7 billion loans. Are we going to make effective use of them for the benefit of society and the country? Unfortunately, you have again chosen to concern mainly large private enterprises and banks, and to a minimum public administration, citizens and the real economy. The way you have designed the structure of the implementation of the Greek plan is clear: it is about a few and selected. It does not include any consultation with society and its institutions. The ideological content of your plan is the Pissaridis report. The Minister said so, too. Describes a model that has proved to be unworkable for the benefit of the economy and society. Both the report and the national plan regard small and medium-sized enterprises as a problem, and their real support is absent from your planning. In particular, the exclusion of small businesses and the self-employed now seems to be a strategic option and not negligence. For example, all loans - EUR 12.7 billion - will be directed through banks exclusively to specific private investments. This is where we have to be clear. You put the cubit, you determine the procedure, you place the milestones. There are countries that turn their design elsewhere into a more socially fair distribution. Our rapporteur, Mr Haritsis, has said so too. The Portuguese part of this money gives them for social housing projects in student homes. The Spanish give them to their small and medium-sized enterprises. Third point: what does the national plan respond to? What needs comes to cover? Do we all understand here today at the National Representation what has happened to Greek society and by extension to the economy and the productive fabric of the country? Every crisis produces questions. We may live in an unprecedented situation, but the experience of the previous decade must - or rather - make us wiser. Your Government has never wanted to enter the debate on increasing spending in critical areas, such as health and education. It is not interested in ensuring the wages and incomes of citizens, which will be passed on to consumption, so that businesses will also remain standing. It is trying to restructure the market. This period, however, raises questions about how we understand the state. Do we understand the state as a last resort intervention or market regulator? The government has included reforms that shrink rights and incomes of the majority of the world of work and small and medium-sized enterprises. A characteristic example of the labour reform. These reforms include them in the recovery plan and it places them as a milestone for disbursement of European funds. You are doing this - obviously - to disorientate public opinion in order to think that all your anti-grassroots and anachronistic policies are prerequisites for the funds of the fund. Closed up, the government plan doesn't fit us all. You have done so with great success before for your peers, with tragic results for the low and middle layers. The Government says that the use of the National Recovery Plan will increase GDP by 7%, while the Commission's forecast is from 2.1% to 3.3%. You say that there will be two hundred and three thousand jobs. Your plan, however, is now visible, because at the end of the day, even if growth runs at 5% or 7%, as you say, if this does not redistribute wealth and benefits, it makes no sense at all. Can growth only eliminate inequalities? No, it can't, because we don't all have the same chances in this life, because the wealth produced doesn't equalise. So far, any such question has been referred to the Recovery Fund. The worst of all is that your plan has the gaze in the past, in a model of growth that it did not yield, instead expanded inequality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, with your tolerance, in half a minute. Our project comes to respond to this very point of inequality. It is a project aimed at increasing GDP by involving society as a whole, transforming the productive model in the direction of the knowledge economy, supporting and renewing businesses, in particular small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, strengthening the single and universal social state, fairer taxation, reducing and medium-sized income groups, the overall ecological transformation of the economy, the recovery of the climate crisis and energy democracy, and the equal development of all regions in the country. Your plan, on the contrary, shows carelessness, opacity, monotony and another chance lost to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u177	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Catherides has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Madam President. I think we all agree that today is an important day, now, the last day of the current Parliament session, shortly before the summer holidays, as a crown of a triple success - I think - that is to say the ratification of these two valuable, important conventions. What are these three hits? The first success is that Europe is changing. It was a stable position of our country, a consistent claim, an attempt to re-equalise debt and to complete monetary union with economic union. Undoubtedly, the Recovery Fund marks a point. In a recent debate I had with Paulo Jedilloni, the responsible Commissioner of the European Union, as a representative of our Parliament at COSAC, where he came and spoke to us, he said this interest and it is important to hear in the Chamber that the institutionalisation and expansion of the fund - which is a national objective - will depend on the success of this programme. So we must succeed, not only for Greece and to take our country forward, but also because we claim another, better, more Europe, which the success of the recovery fund as a whole can bring, despite the reactions of the Dutch and many others in the European North, which are existent. These are from Gendillon and the European Commission. Secondly, second success: Greece gets most, gets most per capita, is fifth in sum in absolute numbers, but most per capita, although not the poorest European country, the poorest is Bulgaria. We take more than the Bulgarians, more than the Eastern Europeans, who are behind us, more than anyone in Europe and that is very important. Third success: we take them faster and with a better program, at least as the third parties say, we don't tell them, they don't tell the Greek media - these triplets for you of SYRIZA Greek media! - The foreigners, the houses, the journalists, the channels, the European Commission and that is what it is important. So Europe is changing, our country is benefiting most and is moving more dynamicly than any other country. Secondly, it is said that we have a historic opportunity. There is no doubt that this is a great opportunity to overcome the pandemic. Within 2022 we will have returned to the GDP we had at the end of 2019 and left it behind. Already the precursors are extremely positive and yet they constantly improve for the better, despite the uncertainty created by the coronary delta mutation. But it is wrong to say that this fund, these contracts will only fill the gap created by the pandemic. They can also fill the gap in the economic crisis, turn 2026-2027 to GDP quantitative level where we left it in 2008. It is this additional development that comes with these resources not only from the Recovery Fund and the others - the NSRF announced yesterday, the private funds that will complement these resources - a total of close to EUR 100 billion, to cover the large investment gap left by the decade of the crisis. However, I would like to go one step further and say that it is neither the pandemic nor the economic crisis alone, because here there is a ghost, Minister, who is deceiving over all debates on the economy and development in our country, which often the political system - part of the political system - and certainly very publicists make them ignorant and obsolete. And it is our great failure, because we are faced with a failure, we must be honest in order to overcome it. It is a failure that forty years, ladies and gentlemen, our country has been unable to converging with Northern Europe in terms of convergence. While between 1950 and 1980, in those thirty years - the stepstones you say there on the left - the country quadrupled its GDP in relation to Germany - from 15% of the German standard of living to 60% of the German level - since then remains at 60%, despite the subsidies, the billions of subsidies from Europe and despite the over tenfold of public debt. I will not go into why we have failed to converge with the rich European North and why our country has the worst economic performance in a Member State of the European Union for decades in total. The conversation would have been interesting, it has been answered by experts, economists, and there are very interesting books that I recommend that you read in Opposition, that we all put together a collective mind. So, despite the political miracle of post-population, which we celebrated last Saturday in the Presidency of the Republic, the most complete, most mature, more mature, more stable, more well-functioning democracy that our place experienced thanks to Constantine Karamanlis, but also to the efforts of the Greek people, we have not had the corresponding economic performance, especially since '81. Forty years we have been stagnating in terms of convergence, while at the same time our public debt, whose burden the productive tissue is being called upon to raise, has grown a great deal, at the same time as the underweighing, the productive fabric of the country, has been weakened, not least because of demographic decline. So in a sense we are worse in 2021 than we were in 1981 when we entered the EEC. We have a long way to go and a serious problem to solve. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. And here I come to the so-called counterpopulation, which, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is characterised by a fundamental contradiction. On the one hand, you say not to repeat the mistakes of the past, not to reproduce the same bankrupt economic model, with many micro-enterprises of low productivity, low added value, low technological innovation and incorporation, which many times survive thanks to tax evasion and tax evasion. On the other hand, however, you are coming and you say no bank criteria are in place, we are more socially sensitive, we are sharing money, in other words we are reproducing precisely this failed economic model, which you have been denouncing in the meantime. You have to choose. You cannot be modernists and populists as well. In my opinion, it is clear what you are, the oldest of the old-fashioned parties. You consider the Recovery Fund to be a lever to share money and collect "capitals", without a program, without a system and without the obvious that we must finally leave behind the great failure of the past, which I have described just now and do not repeat by voting. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And I'm ending up with this. That would be a mistake. We would waste the historic opportunity that this fund gives us, not to replicate our evil old self, who has made us today, gentlemen of the Anti-Population, to compare not with the Spaniards and the Irish - well, the Irish have gone very far ahead - but with the Poles and soon, if we insist on this course that you want, with the Bulgarians. Yes, well, to support healthy entrepreneurship, which has prospects, even of small, but healthy and entrepreneurship perspectives, but yes, to the great changes that the place needs to make as it deserves, and as only we do, from our point of view and here and in committee, only we can do. Thank you very much, and I hope you will rethink the'small' and have the courage to vote in favour of this unique opportunity and not to be absent from this historic moment of our country. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much. Now Mr Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Only as a sense of humor can I understand what we heard about what happened forty years ago in the country. And I won't question the sense of humor of the previous one, but, as much as to search in history, for forty years SYRIZA has been ruling? Who was in the government then? Forty years specific parties ruled, New Democracy - PASOK, PASOK - New Democracy. And you are right to raise the matter: But will we repeat the same mistake, the same growth model that led the country to bankruptcy and to this huge crisis? You are right to ask the question. But look at the contradiction. What does this question mean? Dialogue of political, social and productive actors, dialogue within Parliament, dialogue within the New Democracy, to avoid these problems. He told me your New Democracy MEP outside the Chamber that you haven't even discussed this plan in your parliamentary group. And if you really have discussed this, tell me that, on 15 February, we had a parliamentary group and talked about it. Did you keep it hidden? There's nowhere on the internet. Now I'm actually coming to the point. We wanted there to be dialogue because, in fact, this bill commits the development of Greek society for the years to come, for many years and for many important issues. And because, quite rightly, the Deputy Minister in his speech says - in order to understand everyone in this Chamber at any rate what we are voting on today and what we are doing today - that the possibility of changing a contract that is common and based on a regulation is very small. Mr. Pylacakis told the committee. So it's specific what we're voting on today. And be careful of all this package that you vote on, there will be a need for struggles, which will of course take place, to overthrow these policies and get where they need to be. But I am going beyond this because the political views of the Right, as much as you try to change them, to camouflage them, to communicate them, do not change them. You've been the same, you've been, since I understood myself, we've been fighting you, in 2015 we've managed and left the government and with what you're doing, we're gonna do it again very quickly. It is also a terrible example of this bill of how you act as a government in total contrast with all these pharaonics, the ultimate state, "we are the perfect" etc. It is a typical example of poor practical codification, clandestineness and fraudulentity, with the aim of not having a real debate on the development issues on which I agree that the debate should take place, but not a debate. And now take note of the serious, capable state of success on such a serious issue. As far as I've seen, Mr. Psilakakis, you have the coordination for this development plan. Congratulations! Terrible coordination, terrible planning! You are tabling the bill to the Committee on Economic Affairs, you are not giving us any importance and opportunity for Parliament to make a substantial study and to read it. Nevertheless, we are trained and can read diagonals and vertically, and we have come to the committee and have tabled proposals and the willingness to discuss them. On Wednesday, then, on 28 July, you are calling on us, having tabled it on Monday night, to hold a debate in the committee. What does our rapporteur, Mr Haritsis - and good for him - reveal in committee? That there are paintings that haven't been deposited. And you come there and say, we're not to blame as the Treasury. We testified the paintings, but someone else was to blame, and they haven't reached your hands. All right, let's take this. But, now, take note, at the time when the Committee on Economic Affairs is discussing the draft law, you do not have political honesty and fairness - it is not personal, it is politically reproach - to inform the Committee on Economic Affairs that at the same time as you are the 'perfects', with the final state, with the diplomas, doctors, such large staff and others, you are tabling an amendment that you are changing, you are amending what we are already discussing in the committee. And you are tabling the amendment here. The amendment was not tabled to the Committee on Economic Affairs, the amendment was tabled at the same time of the committee and will be voted on today. And I ask you in committee to answer, I ask two questions: 'What is the percentage of Greek enterprises that can access these tools and benefit?' So your response to what is this business rate unclear and is nowhere to be found. I have the committee's minutes here. There's nowhere. I do not want the Minutes to be tabled again in plenary. But if there is, say a number, to commit that 5% of Greek enterprises to 45% or 95% may be subject to these provisions. There isn't. But let's go to the most important point and keep notes here to answer, because you also have a specialty in this matter than I saw in your papers. When I ask you "what if someone doesn't pay back?" you say ‘the banking criteria go right in order to repay the loans to the extent that they can be repaid’. Is that new? Is this the case for business alone? Is that not the case with the parties' loans? How do the parties get loans and pay off? And since yesterday we had something else, we had the statements of the'substantially obsessed' in this House, and we had specific information, will you please tell us very much, in relation to'subjects' what is going on with the question of your executives, which many of them are also in the financial staff, who have great property and large loans to the banks? I don't understand. Let me see some "outside you'd have big loans to banks and deposits. This, you know, in tax controls is called virtuality. But this is what I want to understand: when a small-scale guy has loans then, in your language, is a "job" business, and when a politician has big loans what's his name? Vampire? Not to say anything else about public money. And because on Axis 4.4, you say things about speeding up private debt restructuring procedures, I would like to ask you the following question and I will submit to the Practical Publications not by any pro-Society newspaper or site, but by the protothema.gr that says: 'Hello! I think we should resort to Chardalion and ask for action. What villas in Mykonos and what coronary? Where to see the parties set up on the forefront, "red" loans, intermediaries, administrators, etc. It's a big crowd, it's throwing the masks and it's crazy. At these parties some may also make use of substances. That's the only way to explain some of the agreements they make. However, it seems that the parties have also drawn the attention of the authorities." Because a New Democracy MP earlier said "data", here are elements from your pro-government site, which reveals what is already happening at the big party you have started and denounced at Parliament level. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u181	Please, you have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u182	I shall now close, Madam President, with two remarks. As far as the content of the Recovery Plan is concerned, the rapporteur has said so. I have nothing to add to anything else, I have only to add that, unfortunately, in the time that we have had, we cannot analyse the enormous shortcomings that your programme has in the fight against tax evasion and smuggling. And I would like to take the opportunity to present to you in the Minutes the most valid website on taxation and accountants, where it raises the issues of tax returns and what you need to do to deal with them, because there are terrible delays, as well as the letter of the Athens Accounting Association in relation to the tax declarations and the solutions you need to give. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because often, Minister, here in Parliament, we denounce each other for things...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u184	One more phrase, Madam President, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u185	You always make me a problem, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u186	One phrase and I'll finish. And because former Minister for job violations was referred back, be careful, gentlemen of the financial staff. Article again on the same site says that a political decision gives 16% of the shares in the PPA to 'COSCO' without fulfilling the contractual obligations. This is a violation of duty and we are not going to leave it that way. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Alexiadis, first of all it is not the 'First Issue' from what I see. It is an article of the 'New Money' unsubstantiated, which unfortunately did not have the opportunity to read it. Also, unfortunately, the damage that SYRIZA has done to the Greek people over the four and a half years in which he has run the country has done no party forty years after the restoration of democracy. That damage has two pounds as a merchandise on SYRIZA. The two pigeons are the 100 billion euros, which you have charged the Greek economy above and the hundred years you have promised the property of the Greek people. You've been judged for it, so you're there, and that's why you go daily and beyond. So in today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, despite the positive development prospects of the Greek economy that had already been formed since the second half of 2019, that is, immediately after New Democracy's governance, the unprecedented health crisis has in fact affected our course. The world economy has been pushed by a shrinking of over 3%. This results from the data provided by the International Monetary Fund for 2020. On the initiative of Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in March 2020 and with the participation of eight leading European leaders, a new system of common European borrowing was proposed. The aim was to address the economic consequences of the pandemic and to allow the day to build the next on solid foundations. This proposal immediately found a warm resonance between European leaders, proving the influence that our country can have when it is governed by a serious government, a government that restored from the first day on the credibility of the country at European and international level. So, ladies and gentlemen, the European Resilience Development Mechanism has been established for the economic recovery of the Member States of the European Union. Even more important than this government has achieved is that, in this mechanism, Greece will receive the largest, in GDP, aid from all over Europe, i.e. EUR 30.5 billion. This is money that, together with the contribution of private funds, will reach EUR 57 billion. It is a huge package that will give impetus and unique opportunity to our country. This is an opportunity to fill the huge gap in investment in national products and employment, which the long-term economic crisis of the past decade has left behind, but also the unnecessarily mumbling memorials - and do not laugh, Mr Santorinier - some obsessed and irresponsible people who are sitting at the moment where you are sitting, on the headquarters of the Anti-Population Officer. Our firm aim is for the resources of the Recovery Fund to be used in the best possible way, so we are planning reforms and investments with smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, promoting entrepreneurship and the development of sustainable infrastructures and strengthening the health system, with investments that will create goodwill for taxpayers and new stable jobs, reforms that will improve public administration and enhance its effectiveness. It is a hundred and seventy projects, investment and reforms for the digital transition, the growth of employment and the cohesion of society, the green economy, the escalation of production and business activity. I would mention a number of areas, but I think the previous ones have also been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Plan 'Greece 2.0', which includes important projects - sectors, was in the first three approved by the European Commission. This plan will create two hundred thousand jobs and give seven points to our country's GDP by 2026. By ratifying contracts for the financing of the Recovery and Resilience Fund and for the provision of loan support, it opens a path not only to overcome the financial consequences of the pandemic, but to transform the country as a whole. We are going along with national confidence in the ratification of the conventions now at the end of July, without any delay, because we will immediately receive the first EUR 4 billion. Never in modern Greek history has such mobilisation of investment funds been made in such a short time. The ratification of these agreements is the result of an effort in which the government and the competent staff worked with a methodical and sense of responsibility in order to bring this huge package of more than 30 billion euros into our country. This is a package which was thought to be inconceivable in the sphere of imagination by Civic Opposition. It is a package that we are doing today. These agreements should - if you wish - be ratified for symbolic reasons by all the members of the National Representation, since whatever the different approaches of the parties are, they will benefit all Greek society. In any case, we are all judged at the end of the day. With a sense of responsibility, therefore, and with a conscious sense of responsibility, I am voting in favour of ratification of the agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u189	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Santorinios from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I can only see you. Yesterday the entire Ministerial Council had paralyzed the amendments from here. Today they left you alone, and this is so important. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with our'red' islands. Unfortunately, at the moment, based on the ECDC figures, our islands have entered deep red. Here, too, there are responsibilities. There are responsibilities because we have been telling you for too long a long time 'provide the tourist workers with vaccination'. You didn't. We've been asking you to be policing the measures for the protection of the coronary. And I have in front of me a statement from the Dodecanese Police Association that speaks of a huge lack of staff. When will you finally send police services to check the situation? Are you going to be all over again? Instead of getting ahead of time, will you continue to suppress? On the other hand, there are also incomplete controls, because controls from the port cannot be carried out for the simple reason that in our islands the Port House has been subordinated. We left it much more staffed on the islands, but unfortunately you took them all out there where they wanted to go and left the islands without any staff. And at the same time, there's no epidemiological surveillance. They go rapid test and the tails don't stop. There is no adequate epidemiological surveillance. With all this there is a risk of exclusion from the markets of our islands and from the tourist regions in general. And that's where we'll have something special. We won't have a lockdown. But we won't have tourists. And I ask, what about business? What about the workers? I am going to another topic: Today's news reports reported that the TIADE found them with "COSCO" for the transfer of 16% of the shares in the PPA. In order to do this, by 11 August 2021 five years after the signing of the Convention, the eleven compulsory investments of EUR 295 million have been completed. They have not been completed under the responsibility of 'COSCO'. And in accordance with the concession agreement and the stock sale contract, 16% should not be transferred and criminal clauses calculated in accordance with Article 16 of the Convention should be imposed. If you do not proceed with these actions, you are committing an infringement of duty, you are harming the public interest, you are harming the interests of the Greek State. Because obviously, 16% of the company's profits will not be collected. We therefore call on you to implement the contracts and not to make an agreement against the public interest. And now to come to the bill under discussion. The Recovery and Resilience Fund is a major step for Europe. It is a step that Europe has finally decided on the burdens arising from the pandemic to redeem them, to borrow for the countries. Our country with criteria relating to the rate of recession and unemployment is entitled to ECU 32 billion. loans and grants. Does the plan submitted serve the terms ‘recovery’ and ‘resistance’ for all? Does it serve the need for workers and small and medium-sized enterprises to survive? Does it serve the need for an inclusive development plan with a regional dimension and social justice? The answer is no. Because it is also apparent from the procedure you have followed to draw up the plan. Because there was no consultation with the social partners and Parliament - what we are now not discussing - no consultation with the labour and entrepreneurship bodies, no consultation with the local authorities. It is a plan that brings commitments for the country beyond the constitutional mandate of your Government until 2026. A plan that implements the most extreme neoliberal positions of Mr Pissaridis, compelling and merging small and medium-sized enterprises. 'Zobby', you called them, Minister, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u191	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u192	If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. However, a government official called them a 'job'. A plan, therefore, of merger and redemption, of elasticisation of working relationships - we have seen it by the laws you have brought - and of privatization of subsidiary insurance. And you're not answering us. When companies go to the banks to get a loan, these 12 billion, how many will get in through the eight hundred thousand? According to Mr. Michalo, it's about twenty-five thousand. They're the ones who'll take the money to buy the others. Because that's your plan. I'll go to some individual. I also spoke to the committee. We need to upgrade and renew the ferry fleet, because our country is islands. Our country needs boating. Our country is the first in shipping and has a wide geographical range mainly for the sake of its islands. In your plan there is an assumption that there is a need to upgrade from there and beyond. You are financing a study of a million, which is a continuation of the study that we, in cooperation with the Chamber of Shipping, the passenger link and in cooperation and in agreement with the European Union, in order to renew the fleet. A study which provides for three axes of funding from European funds through the CEN, the European Investment Bank through Green Shipping and multi-annual aboriginal contracts. [[At this point, a bell ends the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] Madam President, I will need one more minute. This intervention could be part of the Recovery Fund. Still it's out. So out of the islands, except the coastline. As far as the ports are concerned, I told you last time and you told me they would come from the NRP. Minister, the 20 million for financing in the ports by 2026, and indeed for 'kids' - because they are 'kids' - is a joke. And I'm telling you again, it's funny. Because we gave 12 million a year. Because we from the "PHILDIMOS" programme had given the port management bodies 25 million to prepare for the next programming period. Because we from the Special Development Programme for the islands gave 101 million! And you tell me about 20 million of the biggest financial programme? Is that what you have for the ports of our islands and most of them are not also ports of islands? Not to talk about marine spatial planning. What are you practically doing? You say that the country will complete the "THAL - COOR 2" which we had integrated into "Interreg Greece - Cyprus". That's a lot of funding! From there on, nothing else. The app? Zero! And I close - and thank you, Madam President - by saying that it is obvious that you have no plan for the energy upgrading of the islands by self-production and self-consumption. You don't have a plan to get energy communities in. You alone are the great RES producers. Because you know them, you'll give them to them. In energy communities, you are not going to give local government. To avoid talking about the plan you have for health on the islands, which has emerged as a problem. I see you're doing some interventions and right. Let's say, for example, desalination in Kalymnos, Paros, Mykonos. What is your design for the desertification of the islands that is a problem of climate change? In a short time most islands will have no water. Do you have a plan for this? Will you implement an integrated programme so that the islands can have water? We as a government made a decision to stop the aqueduct. We did it and we did it consistently. So we say, keep trying, because in the next few years we will have a great deal of water problem on our islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Comrade, you asked me for a minute and we got ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. We believe that this project should be a project with inclusive development for society with society, a project that would talk about real resilience and recovery of society, workers and businesses. Unfortunately, we don't believe the same. You're talking a few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u195	Now Mr Spankis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and we shall vote at the end of the procedure on a key bill on the course of the Greek economy in the coming years on the European path, I would say, of the Greek economy. With today's bill, the Greek Parliament ratifys the two conventions between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic on the financial contribution of our country of EUR 30.5 billion, EUR 17.8 billion of direct grant and EUR 12.7 billion of loan. In particular, the financing agreement between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, signed in Athens on 20 July 2021 and Brussels on 23 July 2021, and the loan agreement signed in Athens on 20 July and Brussels on 26 July 2021 is in force. These two agreements are the result of the highly successful negotiation of our country and the Government of New Democracy. Furthermore, they are the completion of the initiative by Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis, who, together with eight more European leaders, took part in the development of a new common financial support mechanism to address the financial consequences of the pandemic. So, a year ago, last July, the decision on the Recovery Fund was taken. The creation of the Recovery and Resilience Fund is an important decision of the European Union and shows exactly how the European Union now perceives the institution and the way that the Member States must rely on to cope with the consequences of this unprecedented global pandemic, but also to be able to make a substantial relaunch in the post-COVID era. For our country it is a great success, since as a percentage of GDP it will receive the greatest support from all the countries of Europe. We're talking about 20% of GDP. The Bank of Greece's report mentions, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred eighty thousand with two hundred thousand permanent jobs in the coming years. And, as the Minister and the rapporteur said, together with the private funds to be mobilised, we are talking about funds of EUR 57 billion over the next five years. What areas and projects do reform and investment include, however? Modernisation of public administration. Do you disagree that there is no need to modernise public administration? Because I saw that from the point of view of Officerial Response there was a question. In the energy sector, we have a series of reforms to increase the share of renewables and the country's carbonisation, such as the energy upgrade of public buildings, urban reform, the establishment of new maritime spatial planning. Electrical and digital interconnection of the islands. Targeted environmental reforms and investment, such as water supply, national reafforestation plan and investment for Parnitha, as well as several flooding and significant flooding projects. Significant investments for Civil Protection include: Aerial instruments for crisis management. Determination, prevention and treatment of forest fires. Establish disaster risk management strategy. Implementation of Regional Civil Protection Business Centres through public-private partnership programmes. "Securities" programmes for households, for businesses and for the public sector. Urban regeneration, including the regeneration of a very important part of my constituency, the coastal front of Attica. Tech investment, network development...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u197	And Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u198	And Piraeus, Minister. But allow me, as a Member of the South sector, also to refer to the regeneration projects in the South which will really change the image of Attica and the South suburbs. Technology investments. Development of 5G networks on Greek motorways. Fast broadband connections. Visual fibre infrastructure in buildings and underwater. In the area of state digital reform we have projects such as digitisation of state files, electronic registers, registers. Yesterday we had the Law on the Land register and the new systems for the AIA and the tax administration in general. Electronic control systems. We're in 2021. We are talking about other systems and other control procedures. New policies to strengthen and promote jobs, such as the new labour law. Reinforcement of research in and outside universities to attract investment and jobs. Measures to increase the resilience of the health system and much more. It is the package for education, agriculture, tourism, culture and road safety. And of course the heart of all, which is changing the productive model in a direction of sustainable, healthy entrepreneurship and growth. Increasing exports and productivity, a model that aims to create two thousand new jobs across Greece, in each region of our country. And I am ending with something very important, Madam President, the conditions laid down in the conventions to ensure that both the money for public investment and private investment is channelled where it is planned and that all the projects that will be approved are ready to be carried out. I mention this because it shows that our country has now been removed from old evil tactics of the past as to where European subsidies were going. This will therefore be "Greece 2.0", a truly new Greece, a European Greece that will emerge from the pandemic, not only upright but also better, with a view to a European modern country example to be imitated. That is why I think that today all the wings have to vote for this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u199	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mamulakis has the floor for SYRIZA now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, an important plenary meeting of Parliament on an important issue for the country, but it did not receive the appropriate parliamentary approach. And I'm saying it stylishly. In fact, none of the steps that constitute the epitome of good legislation have actually been taken. There was no substantial public consultation. For example, it has been mentioned by previous speakers as a match - to understand the world - that there have only been forty-five comments - interventions in such a key issue for the country, such as the Recovery and Resistance Fund, confrontation and the opposite, for example, in the pets bill, dominating, stray, where we had over twenty-four thousand observations or the conspiracy that was more than fourteen thousand. So you realise that, for a very important piece of legislation for the country, we did not have the corresponding approach or public consultation, that is to say a wider public's knowledge of this issue. And it's not just the wider audience. They are themselves bodies, chambers, scientific bodies, civil society, local administration, which, in fact, is far from the whole process, from the first to the last change. I think - and this is a good question - what are the projects that will be integrated in favour of local government without her knowing? So here we have serious issues relating to how the first step was approached, which was to prepare the proposal. In our opinion - in my opinion, if you would like, - there are three major steps, one which concerns firstly the preparation of the proposal for the Recovery Fund, secondly, the content of the proposal - which I will put forward properly further - and, ultimately, the results of the proposal. As far as preparation is concerned, other than amateur, it was obviously also subjective. That is why there was no appropriate and proper public consultation. Here, Mr Scully, during today's sitting, he actually admitted it, and he showed a special experience in speeding up the procedure, so that he could table the approval of the Commission and that, in any case, yes, it was not the public consultation that should have taken place, but we had no choice. So here is Rhodes, ladies and gentlemen. Our rapporteur, Alexis Haritsis, put a clear question in the name of an amendment from our parliamentary group calling for a monitoring committee. If, in fact, the words of the Deputy Minister are correct, then he has no reason to accept the proposal of the Officerial Representation, to have an institutionalised monitoring committee, in the logic and in the framework of the NRP, to move further and shield the transparency that our country needs and our political system so badly. I now come to the contents of the Greek Government's proposal, Mr Mitsotakis' government, which, by more than 40, concerns borrowing. Let's highlight this. EUR 12.7 billion is a loan from the European Community. Just here comes the largest, if you want a winter group of businesses, which are not other than small and medium-sized enterprises, which only twenty-seven thousand eighty-two-two small and medium-sized enterprises currently have access to bank lending, in total eight hundred and twenty-two thousand. What does that mean? Something less than 4% of all enterprises have access to bank lending, that is, 96% more is entirely out of any funding that this entails. Obviously your logic and plan, the Pissaridis project, confronted with our own holistic approach and in 2018 and 2019, where we discussed with all the regions of the country and through this fermentation, came a comprehensive and holistic strategic development framework. Here we have a philosophy, another pendant. It decides on a committee and on it harmonises the whole of the government's presence and policy. So here we have a big issue. Mr Skakakis asked during the debate, what else can we do about borrowing? We have to move on to the logic of strengthening private investment. In fact, did Mr. Skoplakis challenge us, saying, what is your proposal around this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u202	You're telling me, yes. So I will tell you that the Greek Government, Mr. Psulakakis, is the only one who has planned to travel all the funds, all the money, loans - on lending, I am always talking about - that is, 12.7 billion to private investments. Examples, but I will also tell you what is essentially our proposal, since there are examples in the rest of Europe. Portugal will use part of the loan for the financing of social policies, with a crown and a hangover on the question of social housing. Slovenia will make use of the loan from the Recovery Fund for regional development that we have so much contributed, and we have pointed out and indicated that regional disparities, together with the energy I will further expose, are the key points that we absolutely need to find a way of converging and reducing this gap. And, of course, I end up with Spain, which will, in fact, use 2022 financial instruments, always from its borrowings, so that it can achieve a stability in employment which, of course, is, as we do, the same for Spain, because unemployment is mocking and recession is deepening. So we have a specific programme before us. What's our proposal? Activate immediately the Development Bank. Here you legislated the famous micro-credits a year and a half ago, and you have not yet implemented the slightest action on microfinance. And here you have come to Parliament, after all the people and branches, to say how important an intervention is, which, in fact, you accompanied and followed our own legislation. But in practice, nothing. So there are ways. There must be political will. Aimed results, which are the third part of the tripartite that I analyse. In essence, what are the objectives of this government? It is this ideological approach which prejudges that small and medium-sized enterprises and tax evasions, but are also introvertible - as if any tools were ever given to obtain the necessary extroversion and shield their tax framework - and, of course, the branches that are always in good cooperation and coexistence with the present government, such as tourism, despite all the monoculture, the heterosity that we are now seeing through COVID -19, renewable energy sources that have grown out in previous years without planning, without a hierarchy and prioritisation and, of course, constructions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. What do we say? We say that it is a necessary treaty to strengthen newly-born enterprises, of course the small and medium-sized scale, to strengthen the primary sector, industry and exports. These two pillars if they do not balance, it is legitimate that we will lead to many problems. So, having completed my position, ladies and gentlemen, I would actually say that we have a clear approach in front of us on the part of the Government. The government itself, the same political staff who, in previous years, imposed austerity on the poor, in the dark years, has now brought an intense and extreme Kenyanism for the benefit of the rich, always, even now, in the pandemic era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u203	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u204	Madam President, can I take the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u205	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u206	There is an interesting dialogue here, because Mr Mamulakis told us that SYRIZA would take the loans to make various political public. The question is, because loans, as you know, do not create a financial space, what taxes would you charge to pay for these policies. Because since you tell us that you would take the loans, not to go to private investments, it means - and we are talking about 12.7 billion, I do not know what amount you would get - that you would be ready to put funds? 500 million, 1 billion, 1.5 billion extra taxes? I don't know if that's SYRIZA's official position. It would be useful to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Minister. Mr Constantinidis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the strongest objections to counter-population in discussing the ratification of the Recovery Fund contracts in particular in committee, I was thinking of the imaginary cheating husband, who is making a mess when learning about infidelity, but when he goes to get a gift to his wife on their anniversary. And that is not only because this is not the case here, but also because your protest is completely untimely, pretextful and miserable. It is timeless because, in essence, it is directed against the National Recovery and Resilience Fund or as it is known "Greece 2.0" in time that this has passed all stages of the preparation, presentation, consultation and approval, and the contracts themselves have already been signed. It has been extensively discussed in Parliament on specific subjects, but also on any relevant subject matter. It is, however, decelerated and lately criticised, mainly because it is pretextual. Because, in fact, with your political attitude - and I am addressing the Civic Opposition - you have shown that you had decided not to participate in the formation of the National Plan, but to enslave and fight it on every occasion, as you were questioning Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis about a year ago, when he was in the process of building the European mechanism for recovery and resilience, which resulted in a colossal package of support for the economies of the Member States of the European Union. But even when our country managed to finance more than its GDP, you did not have the courage to recognise a clear national success, and you know it well that nothing is self-evident, nothing is given. But it is also a pretext for you, since you are not in the essence of the debate. Irrelevant theory and fragmentary complaints of the formula "Some of you put here. Put something more there." Here, the funds are concrete and registered, especially as regards public expenditure. The Deputy Minister told you, Mr. Skulakakis. Some 14 billion are public investment and 46 billion are private. Cut off the electrical and digital interconnection of the islands? Why don't we do the substituting of the power grids? How about then when the trees fall off the snow on the wires? Should we cut off the land restoration in the lignite areas, a key environmental and development aid for my country? Who's gonna pay for her? To cut off from "Security" for households, businesses and public buildings? It is a programme that exceeds 1.6 billion and with leverage it can exceed 2.5 billion and, as citizens and professionals say, has a very good spread in the economy and the market. Cut out of the urban regenerations? Cut off the environmental programs, the subsidisation of electric vehicles, cars, taxis, buses, chargers? Do we not go ahead with the digital transformation of the country and of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially when the heart of the programme is green and digital? Cut off the irrigation? Is that what you're saying? Do you know how many lands in the region - and in my own - are thirsty to irrigate so that producers can go to dynamic crops? Shouldn't we build the BOAK at the E65, projects that joined the program? E65 is another key task for the equitable transition of Western Macedonia, which the Minister and the Prime Minister have succeeded in integrating it despite objections, because road networks are no longer eligible. To cut off from strengthening civil protection after so many tragedies we have experienced? Why don't we give the people who fight with fire? Do we not protect our citizens, our fellow citizens, from the consequences of the extreme weather phenomena that are growing more and more in our time? Ladies and gentlemen, here the sizes are specific and finite and you cannot do what you have done in the previous period, which is what is before you. And you well fed, but have you reserved for the ratification of the contract? Have you reserved such favourable funding for the country? What kind of lionisms are these? Are you back in 2015? So, what if the contracts are not ratified today? Where will the agitated ones be paid from? How will professionals be supported? How will the economy come up? But it is not just a timely and presumptuous criticism. They are primarily poor, because our national plan is complete, mature, cohesive and will prove extremely effective, not only because we say so, not only because the international houses say so, not because the markets themselves are imprinted, but because every evaluation by the competent bodies responsible for controlling, approving and supervising it receives the best criticisms. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us come back to real time. We are shortly before the ratification of the two contracts for a loan of 12.7 billion and grants of 17.8 billion for the implementation of the Visual National Plan "Greece 2.0". It is well known and let it be made clear that the payment of this money in our country is not necessary. It is consistent with the fulfilment of specific objectives and milestones, while as far as the loan component is concerned, this must be paid back to the contractually planned time. So it's not about money falling from the helicopter, as some people show it. Much more is not money for eating, but they are intended to cure the investment and developmental wounds that the pandemic has left and are aimed at the productive transformation of our economy. And that's not easy to happen in this suffocating time frame. So vote for ratification and leave the shadows. The moments are critical, and the country would have no more chance. The target for permanent GDP growth by 6.9% and permanent employment growth by 4% is ambitious but successful. We will achieve it as we managed to be the first Member State - Member with an approved partnership agreement for the period 2021-2027, namely the new ESDP, which Commissioner Ferrara said is due to the hard work of today's government and, as the Prime Minister said, we will now have at our disposal a total of EUR 77 billion to build new Greece for the current and future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kocket has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago the Ministry of Labour announced the closure of work for the workers on Monday because of the forthcoming further increase in temperature. Otherwise, the government was ironing out from yesterday and today Alexis Tsipras for his proposal. And I'm coming to the ratification of the contract. Let's get some things straight. We are not opposed to the Recovery Fund. We are opposed to the Government's perception of channelling and who will benefit from the Recovery Fund. The basic and crucial question is whether few or everyone will benefit. This question, I think, has not been answered. We all know that, unfortunately, not everyone would benefit, because if everyone were to benefit, the government had to call on the actors, it had to make a fundamental democratic and productive public consultation. If it benefits everyone, then why is it that only 14.5% of small and medium-sized enterprises are aware of the actions of the Recovery Fund? Then why does the majority of the people in the primary sector not know about the actions of the Recovery Fund? Ladies and gentlemen, it is the model that we want to follow, whether we need to have a productive transformation of the economy or not. The repetitive question by the Members of the Opposition "how to help small and medium-sized enterprises" has not been answered to date. The only way, once the loans are directed through the banking system, is to change the criteria for credit risk, unless you plan it. Then tell us. From there, fair and green transition. Unfortunately, since 2018, the first laws, energy communities, energy compensation for farmers, until now, have been passed, the majority of enterprises with renewable energy sources have been part of the big companies. Proposal. The work of the Officerate-General, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, is to condemn mistakes and omissions, on the other hand to make proposals. The proposal is for energy democracy. 50% of renewable energy permits to be in farmers, to be in energy communities and households. Let me refer to the primary sector, which, with the government's plan, does not really solve the basic and fundamental problems that have been afflicting him for years. In pillar 4 describing private investment and the transformation of the economy, in a very small chapter it mentions the digital transformation of the agri-food sector. Tell me, isn't he necessary? It's definitely. Clearly. But is that all the primary sector wants today? Oh, no. That is why we accuse you of preparing a plan for the interpretation of society. For the primary sector you must first sit down and tell what model we want. What's the design? How will our farmer, the farmer, be competitive? We have a concrete proposal and we are saying that we are strengthening cooperative schemes. Strengthenment, support for ecological schemes, support for small and professional farmers. What's your model? Then you should channel the Recovery Fund. When you have not made this planning, you understand very well that you will not even touch any aid from farmers, farmers. In particular, there is no talk of one of the most basic problems, one of the most fundamental, demographic renewal of the rural population. Young farmers do not need the equipment. The main thing they need isn't the tractor. It's the earth. Unfortunately, loans for the land do not give banks. It was and is a golden opportunity to help farmers buy land. The first, the main condition for the development of the agricultural sector, is the demographic renewal of the rural population. The first basic instrument, ladies and gentlemen, the first and main measure, is the purchase of land by our young people. And, secondly, the tax incentives. Only then can we talk about a primary sector, which will have a future in our country. That is the proposal we are tabling, ladies and gentlemen. That is the proposal to the government. That is why we accuse you of planning and deciding in the interpretation of society, with decisions on issues relating to the future of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Leonardis has the floor from New Democracy, via Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, following a multi-annual crisis and in the context of dealing with the adverse economic and social consequences of the follow-up pandemic, the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism of the European Union for the economic recovery of its Member States has been established. The Recovery Fund through the financing of reforms and investment projects is the great hope for our economy. In this effort all the forces of the country, government, political parties, private sector, banks and workers are invited to alleviate and coordinate, in order to make use of the important resources of the Recovery Fund, the EUR 17.8 billion of grants and the EUR 12.7 billion of low-interest loans. This money, together with the private capital needed to participate in the large projects of the green and digital transition of the economy, as well as the resources of the NSRP 2021-2027, which has already been approved, creates a huge national capital of EUR 77 billion that can change the economy and the country. The focus of the actions of the National Recovery Plan is on young people, women, small and medium-sized enterprises, vulnerable groups, such as people with disabilities, farmers, residents of remote regions in the region, people of culture and many others. Investments and reforms can bring growth to up to 7% of GDP and add two hundred thousand jobs. This rare opportunity offered to us will help the country to cover the lost territory of decades, to become more fair, greener, more digital, more extroverted and more productive, to be more friendly to the new generation with more jobs. The training of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" consists of four pillars. The first pillar, green development. The second, the digital transformation. The third, employment, skills and social cohesion in health, education, social protection. The fourth pillar, private investment, economic and institutional transformation. With regard to the first pillar, investment and reforms include, inter alia, the underpinning of the electricity grid in urban and forestry areas to protect it from extreme weather phenomena, the interconnection of the Greek islands which will significantly reduce the energy costs of households and businesses throughout Greece, an extensive energy upgrade programme for building infrastructures, urban regenerations, irrigation and flooding projects through PPP, a new national reforestation plan, the promotion of electricity mobility and much more. The second pillar concerns projects such as pre-installation of optical fibre infrastructure in buildings, digital transformation of businesses, digitisation of key archives in various sectors, such as justice, town planning, landmark, immigration, EKKA etc., an information system for managing public administration transactions with citizens and businesses, completion of the digital transformation of civil service centres, modern underwater fibre cables for the Greek islands. The third pillar includes projects that enhance the creation of jobs and their maintenance in times of crisis, as well as projects that enhance the resilience of the health system. These include the promotion of modern active and passive labour market policies, a new strategy for training and retraining, investment that enhances the innovation of Greek universities and their connection to the labour market, digital transformation of education, modernisation of equipment and digitalisation of hospitals and health centres, upgrading of primary health care, reform of mental health services with emphasis on patients with dementia and Alzheimer's disease, patients with autism. Finally, with regard to the fourth pillar, projects such as road axes, a large road safety programme, modernisation via PPP of the rail network, policies to strengthen culture and tourism, develop cultural and natural routes, develop the tourist product with interventions for mountain tourism, health tourism and the use of thermal sources, gastronomy, upgrade tourist ports, diving and, of course, speeding up the administration of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, following my cooperation with local government, the mayors, the counter-region and the Serres Chamber, I would like to present to you in the Minutes my proposals for the infrastructure projects considered necessary, the most important investments, with emphasis on the jobs created, public and private investments, the initiatives of the Civil Society, which are worthwhile to emerge, the policies in particular to strengthen entrepreneurship and the transformation of the local economy into every area of the Serres Prefecture and which can be integrated into the development plan and the new NSRP. It is an integrated program that, in combination with the pillars of the National Recovery Plan and the reforms required to take place, gives a new impetus to our region. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theofilos Lentaridis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve these ambitious objectives, it is necessary to implement radical and bold reforms that have been in the plans for decades, but have not yet been implemented. A key factor for the success of the Recovery Plan will be the participation of young people in the implementation of changes in public services and private enterprises. Fixed investments as a percentage of GDP fall by 10 percentage points compared to the Eurozone average each year in the last decade, and we need to achieve a two-digit growth rate for many years to fill the significant investment gap. And it is necessary to mobilise significant amounts of private, public and foreign investment. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We have an important development opportunity in front of us. We must make use of it. In other words, we have the opportunity to change the country, to improve its development and productive potential, to increase incomes, new opportunities, social wages and social protection, to further improve social cohesion, public administration, public health and education infrastructures and environmental quality of life. The government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has taken the lead in the creation of the Recovery Fund, and all of us look forward to the implementation of our project for the country, and we owe this particularly to the new generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u213	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Nikos Pappas has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Pappa, can you hear us? Mr. Pappas can't hear us. We are now moving on to Mr. Charalapo Kastanides from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin with the expression of my deep grief, because the Government on a serious subject has actually never opened the debate and is actually trying to end it within a few hours of a sitting in plenary. From this I consider that several political forces, including the government and the party supporting it, have not concluded what would be useful from the far-reaching budgetary crisis. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that in the early, savage years of fiscal adjustment, when the PASOK government was trying to save the country from the bankruptcy that occurred, according to the European Parliament report from 2004-2009, two things were very characteristic that we should have remembered today. The first is that there was an immature political system, without a sense of national responsibility in the then opposition dialogue, which did not understand that there should be a national dialogue and that there should be a national negotiating line towards lenders, in order not to impose heavy internal devaluation policies on the country, hard measures for which at the end of the crisis, that is, when the country came out of the memoranda, the lenders confessed that they were wrong. And they allowed, despite their self-criticism, creditors to impose heavy internal devaluation policies, because the political system of the country was incapable, with a sense of national responsibility, of leading to a national conclusion through a spirit of cross-party agreement, contrary to what happened in Portugal, where the existence of a national line and common positions towards creditors allowed this country not to impose insubstantial sacrifices and a smoother transition to fiscal adjustment, from the crisis to the exit from it. The second point I would like to remind you is that, at the very same time, this savage period of the first years of the financial crisis, not only by the Europeans, but all the places that created the so-called 'troika', they imposed severely punishing policies, and often showed that they were mocking, because they had to rescue four countries, including one, the worst in their judgment, the 'great child' in the south of Europe, Greece. The demonstration of solidarity I have to tell you that it was rather unreasonable and despite the fact that the government at the time called for common policies by the Prime Minister of Europe, such as debt-sharing, European bonds, Europe understood the need for solidarity when all of it was found to be affected by ten, eleven years after the pandemic. In other words, when these guys understood what it means to be created due to extraordinary conditions of dramatic health, economic and social conditions, they discovered that they had to make solidarity policies, discover, compose a panorama of solidarity policies. But they do, Mr President - and that is why I have said from the outset that I am deeply sorry - with the same spirit that many times imposed harsh conditions and bad policies a decade ago at the expense of our country. And I am sorry to hear colleagues from the New Democracy and I am not 100% sure that they have studied the texts. I would like to remind you that, among other things, both the accompanying documents of the two conventions, the financial contract and the loan contract are ratified. And a crucial document, which the Greek people do not know, because no one has informed him - I do not know if the media owners know about it, I do not know if the Greek Members who are involved - among the documents accompanying them are the Council of the European Union's implementing decision, which says very serious things and reveals the context in which the country takes over, to be financed by the Recovery Fund. And when I talk about burdensome terms, Mr President, I am not talking about the rules that apply to all those who contribute to the European Commission and the Recovery Fund. I am talking about burdensome terms beyond the common rules of control. It is to be recalled that the Council's Implementing Decision explicitly recalls that all the obligations of the country committed in the context of enhanced supervision are applicable, i.e. linking what will happen to the Recovery Fund and its financial flows to the enhanced surveillance regime which reminds it in the text of their decision. They stipulate that Greece should pursue policies of reduced working hours and changes in the government that are not described, and I assume that the government will later bring out draft laws which will be painful because no one knows at this time nor you, Mr President, nor any colleagues, what exactly is implying when the text of the Council's Implementing Decision talks about reduced working hours and changes to the public. Thirdly, I would remind you that in the same text express reference is made to the Commission's recommendations in the spring half of 2019 and 2020 that Greece should have in due course once the crisis has ended in its financial data. I repeat, express reference is made to the recommendations of the spring semester for a need for budgetary balance. And take note at the same time that this reference is made to the European Union's Implementing Decision expressly states that the country is currently in a dramatic imbalance in its budgetary levels - in terms of the 'dramatic imbalance in its budgetary levels' - and believes that there may be a low growth, a potentially pale, anaemic growth. But with potentially pale and anemic growth, the dramatic budgetary imbalances are not addressed. And at the end of 2022, when the period of the escape clause is over, the country will continue to have dramatic budgetary balances in the wording of the European Union's Implementing Decision. We would have to discuss these in a spirit of national understanding and reach a number of critical decisions and negotiation with the Commission, but also put national limits on what the country is undertaking. Well, I regret, but a necessary political treaty, the establishment of the Recovery Fund, is besieged by the way in which the government took responsibility and I am afraid - I hope I am not justified - that we will find ourselves in unprecedented exceptional circumstances at the end of 2022. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Castanides. Mr Ioannis Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the Recovery and Resilience Fund is a positive step for Europe. For the first time, the Union is mobilising resources to finance expansional expenditure, for the first time investment is proposed as an exit vehicle from a serious recession. This is a shift in the ideas and practices that have so far been followed in the European Union. But it is a step in the right direction and inadequate because of the fatal strangles of the European leadership and the northern countries and their prejudice over the peripheral countries, the prejudice of demagogic and racist character. Comparison with the United States of America, which will spend eight times more, is catalytic. Countries like Greece and the other regions have no opportunity to borrow for additional financing of the recovery, as can be done by the Netherlands or Germany and will be limited to the funds they receive. The level of financing and lending would seem to us to be sufficient if we were in a period of even lukewarm growth, but if we take into account the depth of the recession, it is far from sufficient for any European country which has been hit hard by the pandemic crisis, but also ten years of austerity. In particular, for Greece only last year's GDP reduction was 18 billion at 2020 prices, as is the amount of the financing agreement that we are debating today, which will be given over several years. The draft 'Greece 2.0' is accompanied by very unpleasant joints and I mean the memos. It was secretly built from the House and away from society. Not even a preliminary consultation with productive bodies or self-government took place. In Italy, for example, he passed through parliament before going to Brussels and in a number of European countries the proposals of bodies and social partners have been exploited. What would happen to you if you had a detailed conversation with the chambers? Could the work of the SYRIZA National Plans that emerged from the development conferences not be used to provide a provision for reducing regional disparities or for addressing the structural problems faced by remote regions thirsty for strategic investment? Why wasn't all this studied? There is a lack of legitimacy for the content of such a large programme and a surplus of arrogance and empathy. Specifically for the content of the project calls for the absence of a central concept for a change of production model. We really have the opportunity to innovate and move on with structural changes in our economy, which we have been discussing for decades, even in its view. For some reason, however, we have to follow a NRP model that we first look at where we can spend and then put money there, not to say that you are looking towards the few-governers and you see who is interested in spending them and then you give them to them. You spend 12 billion loans from systemic banks under their own control, with their own criteria, which is translated into exclusion of almost all small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. After ten years of heavy austerity and bankruptcy, few people can go through the bank door. 96% of SMEs do not have access to banking. In other words, money goes to money. They do not go to regional development, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, newly-born. Finally, you are turning the contract into a memorandum by linking it to reforms that you are giving them prerequisites with irreversible character, in fact, which harm the large social majority. Not only do they change the country, but they perpetuate its misdeeds. They are making a great deal more money for customer and parasitic practices that are oppressing the country. What's gonna leave this program behind? A new sustainable production structure with increased domestic added value or an economy that once the flow of resources has stopped will simply dry like another Olympiad 2004? Are we going to stay with huge trade deficits of green character? And what about the completely predatory calculations of jobs, half of what the SYRIZA government has created in the midst of memoranda? Obviously all of this is far from European logic. In other countries there is clearly a collective involvement of society, the upgrading of public goods, the reduction of the disparities caused precisely by the pandemic and, of course, the fair transition of green and digital, i.e. a transition involving society, households, energy communities with a clear impact on jobs and quality of life. Huge funds are allocated to Portugal for upgrading public goods and strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises. Here we have the assurance: 'I give it to the great, but it will set for them underneath'. This is a recovery plan for those who need less recovery. Because you think that's how a country should work for you and your friends. Except that this country cannot be deprived of this opportunity nor will it always tolerate carrying on its backs those who feel its owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Is Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement connected? Oh, no. Is there any of the fellow rapporteurs who want to speak? Good. Let's start over. Mr Arsenis, you said that if the other rapporteurs spoke, you would also like the floor. They'll talk, so you have the floor. Because you've been overtime, I'll put two minutes with tolerance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government, in fact, with the silence of the Anti-Population Officer - it remains to learn and its attitude to the two conventions - is currently passing through the country's new loan, a loan of 12.7 billion obviously and a lot more than the cost to the citizens - users of infrastructure, as through the Recovery Fund, public infrastructures will be privatised through the PPPs and farmers will pay fees to the private sector and so on, things that the government has never cost, and it never tells us what these consequences will be. I am referring, of course, to the PPPs that will be done on irrigation, but also to so many other infrastructures that you will make to private individuals to tax citizens. And since they cause all these costs, new loans to the public's back, all that money they get, they only give them to big businesses. Any undertaking, in order to be able to take part in and benefit from the Recovery Fund, must have its own funds, equal to 20% of the investment, must have a bank lending capacity. They exclude eight hundred thousand companies in Greece, the backbone of Greek entrepreneurship, to give them to the five companies that were not affected by the coronary, who experienced recovery within the crisis. Those who really need it won't get a single euro. Neighbourhoods, poor areas, small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded. It's a party of few people's health. All citizens will receive is the bill at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would not take the floor, but I would like to make a clarification beforehand, to say something about what the Minister of Finance said earlier, but the former President-in-Office, unfortunately, did not allow me to speak and now he is not present. However, I would like to say that in my speech I have not mentioned red loans at all but red private debt. You realize it's a very big difference. Red loans are for banks and have been artificially reduced because they have sold their loans to capital funds. But what is of interest to households and businesses is not how high red loans are for banks but for themselves. The second is that our forecast for growth in 2021 was from the beginning, from February to March, that it will be around 4.5%, which we consider perfectly normal when our country has a cumulative recession in the last twelve years of the order of over 30%. It was reasonable to have a development, but it would not be sustainable and it would not last in the future. The next one is the financial derailment, which we understand exactly what the government is talking about, when it says that there is no financial derailment. When we had a deficit in 2020 of 16 billion and something like that is predicted for 2021, what does it mean that there is no financial derailment? How much was it supposed to be? It had to be $20 billion, $30 billion, how much, to say it? Then I heard the Deputy Minister say that we "reduced", "reduced", "reduced", "reduced", various things, taxes and various other things. He did not say, of course, that all of this was reduced by wasting 41 billion dollars and by taking credit. At least every time it says 'we are reduced' to say that all this is done on loan. And the Minister of Finance, of course, has confirmed that we have received 41 billion loan. Now, as far as the Secretary of State's report to Kanes was concerned, it was very right. He quite rightly said that the state is intervening in times of crisis and departing, when there is no crisis, but on the other hand, Kanes certainly did not mean a country with its public debt of 205%, with the "red" private debt of over 150% of GDP and all that has happened in Greece. As regards the role of rating companies, for which the Deputy Minister said that they are in favour of Greece today, that they are giving us the congratulations for all of this, I would first like to remind him how the rating companies assessed before 2008 the'spirits' in the CDOs piece. They evaluated all this correctly, evaluated them as AAA, and that is why there was the crisis that we experienced. In addition, we think it has something to do with the fact that the rating agencies have found that the government is willing to sell everything out, so they reasonably evaluate it properly. Finally, a question which has not been answered - perhaps the most important, for us, a question which has not been answered - is whether the government is undertaking commitments on the first part of the Convention, on subsidies. For us it's very important. We do not want to be negative on subsidies unless the government undertakes commitments that we do not know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u221	Thank you too, Mr. Villarde. Mr Rusopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to raise just a few points by closing down. The first point relates to the accusation made by many members of the Opposition on the allegedly non-information of the Greek citizen. I wrote to Google the words "Tsipras for Pissaridis". Forty-one thousand nineteen results came out. First posts last August. We are being blamed by the opposition for the Pissaridis project, a key part of which we are following, and it accuses us of knowing it from last year. The Deputy Minister presenting him three months ago in a nine-hour procedure of the Committee on Economic Affairs informed the parliamentary delegation of exactly what we discussed and will vote on today. So I think I should just mention it more. The second point is that some of the colleagues from opposition parties have chosen to spend more time on lending which is one third of the package than on grant, namely the gift, which is two thirds of the package. This is a choice of half-empty glass. In any case, this lending has nothing to do with the loans to which the country was forced or political leaders in recent years, the wonderful Memorandums. The third point concerns what we are paying for and what we are taking, because it has been heard that what we will give the Greek citizen by means of projects is a multitude of payments. For those who know and, in any case, for those who do not question the figures, for every 1 euro we give the European Union, by contributing to its budget, we in Greece get EUR 4.6. For 1 euros, we get 4,6 euros back. So how much we give and how much we get from here is clearly apparent. The next point is two very characteristic examples. The issue of health and education has been referred to a large number of times, namely that there has been little money in this project. Forty-one billion were spent a year and a half on the occasion of pandemic, not all for health, but on health, we had a triple of intensive care units, hired thousands of nurses and doctors. In other words, we already had some billions that were given. And almost four billion, if my memory doesn't cheat on me, it's in education and health, too. Last point in political observation, as far as speed is concerned, with regard to speed feasibility and efficiency is concerned: last Friday Mr Skolakis told us that he was even negotiating. Today, we are voting on the integrated plan. The next Friday, the Deputy Minister told us that we would probably have the 4 billion. This is a guide to the systemicity and effectiveness with which the current government works and is certainly his forehead if, in my opinion, this programme will, of course, succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u223	Thank you too, Mr. Russopoulou. Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna need a minute. We could, of course, talk about a lot. I hope that we will have an opportunity in the very near future to discuss the Recovery Fund again, but also for wider economic policy issues, for example, to discuss it again - because the Deputy Minister has put it back in his speech - on the issues of budgetary rules. At the moment, budgetary rules do not apply in Europe. There's an escape clause. Will the current government, your government, enter the block of forces, which are now calling for a change of pacts and a revision, so that Europe - and in Europe and Greece - can implement more expansionist policies in the coming years, or will you join them, who are asking for a return to harshly restrictive financial rules as if nothing happened in Europe and the world over the last year and a half with pandemic? We will discuss this in the future. One comment, too, I would like to make on the issue of speed. From your positioning it is clear that you are interconnecting the concept of speed with the concept of consultation. But you have also been told by Mr Drasakis and Mr Tsakalotos - and I think that this is crucial, that you keep it, that it shows the difference in perception - that consultation, debate and dialogue are not confronted with the implementation of an effective project. A government that really wants this money to catch a place, a government, which is what it wants the society to be involved in this effort, would just start from a genuine dialogue with those - it is supposed to be - that this programme is about. Unfortunately, we have seen that this dialogue has never taken place. I'm coming to the last one. Because you didn't say anything about it, if you want to be placed in your dentistry. We're where we are today. There was no consultation, no debate. The government's proposal has been made in secret by society. Even now, since you are so confident that your programme will really go where it should go - both to the small and medium-sized ones and to the local communities - to all - why do you not adopt the proposal that we have tabled to you in committee and here today in plenary on the establishment of a intergroup parliamentary monitoring committee, so that with transparency, with accountability, the Greek people can monitor the implementation of this crucial project, the so crucial programme for the future of the Greek economy? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the closure will mainly relate to the questions raised by many honourable Members, mainly anti-population. I will start by Mr. Castanides who intervened via Webex. There is Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure - and no one takes any money if it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure - which is entitled 'Measures linking the mechanism with good economic governance'. This article also applies to everyone. It applies to us, too. And it explains in great detail that the committee submits to the Council a proposal to suspend all or part of the commitments, commitments or payments if the Council decides that a State has not taken effective measures to correct an excessive deficit. Good financial governance is the foundation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kastanides. There can be no funding unless we apply the financial rules. That must be clear. There is therefore no question of commitment or of anything else that Greece undertakes. That's the regulation. If we don't want the Rules of Procedure, we may not have the money. And one can honestly say: 'I do not want to commit myself, because it says in Article 10, the regulation on good economic governance, not to take the 17.8 billion or the 12.7 billion loans'. “ She is also a attitude. It feels like the poet says. But I don't hear that. I can actually hear it said: “Yes, we can get the money. But why is the Rules of Procedure?' That's the Rules of Procedure. This was voted on by the Member States of Europe. Long-term negotiations have ended here. That's what we're going to do. That's it. Secondly, we have had a lot of discussion here about how farmers will pay - it says - for water, when irrigation works are done, etc. Evidently, irrigation networks users will pay payments, but they will not be paid to the individuals who will have taken over the PPPs. They will pay them normally because the PPPs will be paid by means of availability payments. So everything you said is out of reality in this particular matter. From there on, there must be much better management of the water issue. And anyone who knows very much what is going on with the water systems around the country knows that we need better management of these systems. We are going on the issue of what small and medium-sized enterprises know about the Recovery Fund. Obviously the Recovery Fund is a very difficult fund, with thousands of pages of texts and approval a few days ago. Therefore, a lot of information will be needed. Nevertheless, the report by the National Assembly, quoted by honourable Members of the Opposition, says that 14% of the researched SMEs are fully aware of the Recovery Fund and 26% are fully aware of it. We are therefore talking about 40%. Because I do not think there are many here who can claim to be fully aware of what the fund includes. They tell us that 40% know it to a certain extent and also a 44% is in the mood and they think it can and is going to take advantage of it. It is quite right to believe that, as far as aid is concerned, the tools of the fund are primarily for small and medium-sized enterprises. Approximately 1.5 billion subsidies go exclusively - or almost exclusively - for small and medium-sized enterprises. And the loans obviously have access to all those who are worthy. I repeat that I have not heard enough answers about whether the opposition parties, especially the larger ones, would use - and how - the loans. Because the loans are very simple: if you want to take them, and you do not want to go through them on market terms in private enterprises, then you have to put on a financial basis. And budgetary space for 12.7 billion, in five years or so left for absorption, is 2 billion a year. Is there anyone who would like to put additional taxes of 2 billion to create the corresponding financial area? Because loans do not create a financial area. The loans are loans. Here, we will have the opportunity in other cases to discuss it. And I come to Mr. Haritsis to say that the House will have plenty of time to monitor the implementation, first of all, of the relevant committees and will ensure that the government is regularly informed about the implementation of the Parliament's plan. We will discuss with the good, when the budget comes, the ways in which we can do this. We are now going to the issue of the domestic financial system. I was very surprised that while everyone spoke about the loans, no one actually mentioned it, but literally no one would go through the European financial institutions and that Greece was, at the moment, the only country - I think, another country followed - which has concluded agreements with EIB and EBRD, which means by means of these agreements that we are bringing additional resources. Because these agreements say that EIB and EBRD will put more money into it, because they are also the rule of at least 30% for cofinancing for us to put the money. I have seen that some, like Mr Arsenis for example, have some doubts as to whether the money will be repaid. But at the same time you say that banking criteria do not apply, which are the ones that ensure that money has a chance of returning, Mr Arseni. We therefore have two bodies that have very well, much better than the national and international banking system, data on red loans. EBRD, for example, which has been in Greece for several years and has even entered the years of the crisis, has zero red loans in Greece in the years of the crisis. We therefore have a programme that is extremely effective in terms of the use of these credit resources and is not just based on the domestic financial system. On the issue of the financial derailment I have heard, I would like to say the following. Financial derailment is something that concerns creditors too, because, as you know, Greece, in particular, has now borrowed from the official financial sector, from the other Member States and from the European institutions and markets. We are told that we have done a very good management and that we are being given creditors through enhanced supervision, in fact, because we are managing good management every time the dose provided for in the context of enhanced supervision. This is over 700 million at a time. At the same time, our bonds are at 0.60%. You know, opposition has an aspect that is the opposition and has another aspect that is about being close to reality. To be effective, these two must be close. This is the weakness of the opposition I see. And to tell you, we're perfectly clean. What we have said in the agreements, what has been described in the plan, that is what we commit ourselves, we commit ourselves with nothing more. And to end the consultation issues. We have had a first informal consultation asking for opinions from actors since last August. We did an absolutely institutional consultation through the Committee, which is the tool with which the consultation takes place in that country. We have received reports from the most serious economic operators in the country, such as the Bank of Greece, on what exactly this plan includes. I personally spoke at the same time, but also the other ministers of government, at dozens of events on the Recovery Plan throughout this period. We came to the committee and had an exhaustive debate close to ten hours and gave full answers to any questions that were raised. However, this period is not limited to consultation. The project will be judged primarily by efficiency and speed. That's why I talked about speed. And he will also be judged by his realism. This is the difference in the plan in relation to the objections of the Objection. It says the Opposition for eight hundred thousand businesses in Greece and puts all self-employed inside. But you know that they cannot have the same banking criteria as the company, because they do not employ workers and do not have business plan. They have a job that people do fine, but obviously you can't use the self-employed to make a fictitious percentage of worthy business. That's not right. We need to go to a debate to achieve this project on the basis of realism. I believe that hearing the debate in the committee a few months ago, the debate in the committee yesterday and the debate today has been a worthwhile move, in the sense that the debate has been more substantial in these two days. I am therefore in favour of this, and I believe that this is a good step for the country. I hope that in the implementation of the plan, which will really change Greece, we can be meaningful. We will also accept the criticism and respond to what the Opposition has to say, but we would also like from the Opposition that its criticism is focused and realistic and not pragmatic, as is happening many times. I hope, since the parliamentary term is over - and I think I am the last speaker - after a few days of Parliament's rest, that we all come back with more criticism for you and for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u228	I do not want to be too meticulous, but I am addressing you, Mr President, and the Minister, to be precise. We are voting for a bill that will become the law of the state. It can't contain mistakes. Isn't that right? It's also a sample, if you'll excuse me for saying it, for clandestine and last-minute changes. In Article 5, why have you added the amendment as an article in the body of the bill, right? That's what I have in front of me. That's what we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u229	We made legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u230	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u231	I've testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u232	All right, you'll be briefed, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u233	No, Article 5 says about the adoption of a ministerial decision referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. It's not gonna happen now. The debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated: ‘Financing the Finance Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, the Loan Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic and their Annexes’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u235	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u236	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u237	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the Finance Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic, the Loan Convention between the European Commission and the Hellenic Republic and their Annexes and other provisions on the Recovery and Resilience Fund’, was accepted by a majority, in principle, of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u239	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-30-S1-commons.u240	With the consent of the House at 18.55 the sitting is closed. The Bureau wishes you a good rest of the summer and rejoice!
